Welcome to the Southwest Airlines First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
On the call today is Mr.
Gary Kelly Southwest's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ms.
Laura Wright the company's Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Before the company gets started today please be advised that this call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
This call will also include references to non-GAAP results.
Therefore please see the company's financial results press release in the Investor Relations section of its website at southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and for a reconciliation of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Gary Kelly for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone and welcome to the Southwest Airlines first quarter call.
I know you all have been -- many of you at least have been very busy with some other airlines’ reports this morning so this is Southwest Airlines and we're glad to have you and we'll try not to work you too hard.
We had a very active first quarter of 2011.
There are many accomplishments to report and share with you all.
And right out of the box I just want to thank all of our people for their extraordinary efforts and the terrific results that we've had thus far in 2011.
The one blight on our financial results of course was fuel.
I know it's on everyone's mind.
It's certainly on ours and mine.
We'll talk plenty about all of that this morning.
But in my overview I just wanted to emphasize especially the good news in our business.
It's been very strong and the traffic and revenues continue to be very strong.
We set a number of revenue-related records in the first quarter: monthly records quarterly records and even some all-time records.
We're continuing to win customers.
We're continuing to take share.
And I attribute that to low fares our no hidden fees and of course great customer service.
And I have to admit I don't like fare increases for our customers but they're certainly necessary in this soaring fuel cost environment.
But it is a testament to our people that the demand has remained so strong in addition to our low-fare leadership versus the competition.
So again I thank them.
March was very strong.
With a late Easter this year April will probably be less so.
But then the forward bookings for May look very strong and above what we would normally consider to be the trend from April to May.
All in all the bookings though for the second quarter look strong and that is with some tough comps year-over-year.
But just turning to the accomplishments in the quarter before I turn it over to Laura we launched our All-New Rapid Rewards program that we've had under development for a while and we overcame some opening day jitters you might say.
But the Rapid Rewards membership and traffic and revenues are all very strong.
We've got year-over-year gains in all of those categories above system averages and of course our system averages are very strong.
We had three exciting new cities added to our route map in what amounted to two weeks in March.
That's a lot of action a lot of activity.
But we were received very very enthusiastically and very warmly in all three.
And again we're just delighted to be there.
Work continues on bringing the 737-800 model into the fleet and that is progressing as planned for introduction to Southwest Airlines next year.
Early in the year we launched or deployed our required navigation performance procedures with our flight operations department and that of course are designed to more efficiently route aircraft and therefore save fuel.
The integration planning of AirTran as you can imagine was very active during the quarter.
And also as we reported this morning we set the date for closing on May 2 which is 11 days from now.
I'm looking very much forward to that day and obviously that will open the door for a lot of new work to finally begin.
We also announced this morning that Bob Jordan will be the President once we close of our AirTran subsidiary.
Bob Fornaro who is the very fine and very capable CEO of AirTran at that point will move to a consulting role for us.
And obviously I'm very much looking forward as is Bob Jordan to working directly with Bob Fornaro at that point.
And then finally before again I turn it over to Laura I did want to give you all a report on flight 812 which is the event we had on April 1.
It's not a first quarter event but nonetheless a big event.
There are several points I want to reiterate.
First of all safety is our duty and it is our top priority and there should be no question about that.
Secondly no airline has a better safety record than Southwest Airlines and this year marks our 40th anniversary in operation.
The Boeing 737 is one of the world's most popular and one of the world's most successful aircraft and we fly them exclusively.
And in fact we're one of the world leaders in terms of operating the 737.
Boeing is one of the world's great companies too.
They design they build and they provide the maintenance plan and guideline for the 737.
They are a fantastic partner.
They have been terrific to work with and I'm very pleased with their response to this event.
We're working very closely with Boeing along with the FAA and of course the NTSB.
And the NTSB is leading the independent investigation as to what happened and why.
And as you would imagine we have provided them our full support.
After the event we grounded the similarly configured 737-300s for inspection.
That was 79 airplanes over a three-day period.
We canceled a little less than 700 flights.
I think we've had some questions on this.
The revenue effect of all of that was minimal.
But I'm sure Laura will speak to that.
Of the 79 aircraft that we inspected we did find five aircraft that had small subsurface cracks.
All of those were repaired and all of those airplanes are back in service as are the other 74 aircraft which had passed the inspection.
So we'll continue doing frequent inspections of the lap joint based on the April 1 event.
And upon receiving the NTSB's findings and recommendations we'll evaluate at that time whether any other actions are necessary.
And certainly we'll be working closely with the Boeing company and the FAA on that.
And as you've all seen thus far the NTSB and Boeing have very clearly and very affirmatively stated that Southwest Airlines' maintenance was fully up-to-date fully compliant and overall I just have to again commend our people.
I think our folks have done a magnificent job in responding to this event.
And then finally I don't see that there has been any impact on our business trends here at this time in April based on that April 1 event.
So with that very quick overview I would like to turn the call over to our CFO Laura Wright.
Thank you Gary and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter GAAP net income was $5 million or $0.01 per diluted share.
These results included two charges related to income taxes.
We had a $5 million federal income tax increase related to an IRS settlement agreed to in the first quarter related to tax years 2007 through 2009 and we also had a $2 million charge which was the result of a change in the Illinois state income tax rate that occurred during the quarter.
These two charges resulted in about $0.01 impact to our first quarter earnings per share.
We also had special items including a net $10 million in noncash mark-to-market and other expenses associated with our fuel hedges.
That consisted of $29 million in expenses which were reflected in the other gains and losses and $19 million in gains which were reflected in fuel and oil expense.
And we also had approximately $17 million in expenses related to our proposed acquisition of AirTran.
Net of profit sharing and taxes the impact was $9 million or about $0.01 and the majority of these costs were for consulting fees.
Excluding these special items our first quarter non-GAAP earnings were $20 million or $0.03 per diluted share.
This was in line with Wall Street's expectations despite the $0.01 and favorable EPS impact from the two income tax charges.
Our operating income excluding special items grew nearly 8% from the first quarter of last year to $110 million.
And as Gary noted we were extremely pleased with our first quarter results especially considering how rapidly energy prices rose throughout the quarter.
As we started the quarter market prices for jet fuel were $2.54 per gallon and they increased about 25% to approximately $3.21 per gallon by the end of March.
So I'd like to join Gary in commending the efforts of our hardworking employees.
They continue to make the difference in our ability to respond to changes in the environment and to stay profitable.
Before I continue my comments on the first quarter and provide insight into our second quarter outlook please note that any guidance that I give today is based on our current expectations of Southwest's standalone performance and does not reflect any potential impact from our pending acquisition of AirTran currently anticipated to close on May 2.
We had another tremendous revenue performance in the first quarter setting a number of first quarter revenue records including record passenger and operating revenues; a record load factor of 78.3%; record traffic which was up almost 12% from a year ago; and record enplaned passenger.
We also had an all-time quarterly record for nominal passenger unit revenues total unit revenues and passenger revenue yields.
In total our passenger revenues grew $444 million or 18% year-over-year to $3.1 billion.
And on a unit basis our passenger revenues grew 8% to 9% each month of the first quarter.
As we've started the quarter we expect that the year-over-year comparisons to decline due to the difficult comps from 2010.
However they continued to build with March especially outperforming our expectations and our normal sequential trends.
We reported a record load factor for each month of the quarter with 20 of our past 21 months all record monthly load factors and our passenger revenue yields also increased 5.3% year-over-year.
We continue to see growth in our full-fare passenger mix which began in the back half of last year.
Our full-fare mix for the first quarter was 22%.
That's up 2 points from both the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of last year.
And although our full-fare passengers are still not back to prerecession levels we're encouraged by the continued sequential growth in our business passengers.
Business Select had a strong performance.
Our revenues were up 19% year-over-year to $25 million with 12% more passengers.
And assuming our first quarter run rate continues we're on track to reach our original annual goal of $100 million.
Our Wright Amendment revenues also continue to grow.
They were a healthy $59 million in the first quarter.
That represents a nice improvement from $47 million a year ago and is a testament to the inherent strength in our existing network from doing nothing more than simply opening up new itineraries.
Our April year-over-year passenger unit revenue comparisons are more difficult due to Easter in late April this year versus early April last year.
When Easter falls later in April you lose the benefit of the potential spring break Easter combination.
Therefore we anticipate a softer Easter benefit this year.
We're currently expecting our April passenger unit revenues to be up in the 6% range compared to last year.
Based on bookings in place and revenue trends thus far we anticipate a stronger combined May and June with year-over-year PRASM growth more in line with the levels that we experienced in the first quarter.
And as Gary noted keep in mind that our second quarter PRASM comparisons are the toughest of the year as we were up approximately 21% year-over-year on the second quarter of last year.
We continue to monitor the demand environment closely and we've implemented seven fare increases since mid-December with our last increase launched earlier this week.
That's a lot of price movement for us but our strong first quarter demand has supported our actions on the fare side to be able to respond to ever rising fuel prices.
Moving to freight and other revenues.
We had a strong first quarter other revenue performance.
It exceeded our expectations.
Our other revenues were up $28 million or 27% year-over-year to $133 million.
The increase was largely due to approximately $34 million in EarlyBird revenues compared to $17 million in the first quarter of last year.
Our business partner revenues also grew in response to our March launch of our All-New Rapid Rewards program.
We saw an immediate increase in our credit card applications and membership following our January announcement.
And our growth in our member O&amp;Ds and our new members outpaced our system growth.
So far we're extremely encouraged by the overwhelmingly positive customers' response to the new program.
Our pets Unaccompanied Minors and excess bag charges combined were $12 million in the first quarter.
And we currently expect another year-over-year increase in other revenues in the second quarter but at a lower rate than experienced in the first quarter likely the mid-teens.
Our freight revenues were $31 million as expected and we currently expect our second quarter 2011 freight revenues to be in line with second quarter 2010.
Turning to costs.
Our first quarter operating expenses excluding special items increased approximately 18% compared to the first quarter of last year largely due to an almost 37% increase in our economic fuel expense.
Our economic fuel cost per gallon including fuel taxes increased 26.5% to $2.96 in the first quarter which was higher than our guidance due to the prices continuing to rise particularly crude refinery margins as well as higher fuel taxes.
I mentioned before that the jet market prices increased 25% from the beginning of the year to the end of March.
If you compare it to a year ago the markets increased over 45% and as compared to two years ago we’re up about 130%.
The product cracks to WTI crude have risen by as much as 65% since the beginning of the year.
And since WTI is currently pricing below the North Sea Brent Crude the crack spreads for WTI are simply widening to match the worldwide price of refined jet fuel.
We've always hedged exclusively in West Texas Intermediate or WTI for our crude positions.
We also have a history of converting positions into heating oil or unleaded gas to hedge our exposure to refining margins on an opportunistic basis.
Now looking forward we may choose to swap some of our WTI positions to Brent or choose to begin purchasing options in Brent but we have not done any of that to date.
We'll also continue to evaluate hedging our refining risk through our traditional method of converting WTI positions to products like heating oil and unleaded gas on an opportunistic basis.
Looking towards the second quarter based on the current forward curve as of April 19 the second quarter WTI crude prices are expected to average around $109 a barrel which is about $15 a barrel higher than our first quarter average.
And the second quarter 2011 crack spread again based on the April 19 curve is expected to average around $25 which is about $1 higher than the first quarter.
Based on the forward curve as of April 19 and our existing fuel hedge positions we estimate our second quarter 2011 fuel costs including taxes will be approximately $3.35 per gallon.
This estimate is about $0.04 less than our unhedged fuel price per gallon estimate as a result of projected hedging gains.
The estimate also includes about $0.14 of fuel tax per gallon.
The continued rise in fuel prices is increasing our fuel sales tax as tax is based on the physical price of jet fuel in over 40% of the states versus a fixed tax per gallon.
And if you look at that compared to the past couple of years our fuel taxes have averaged between $0.10 to $0.12 per gallon versus the $0.14 currently forecast.
For the second quarter we estimate our premium cost associated with hedging will be in the $25 million range and these are not included in fuel expense but rather recorded below the line in other gains and losses.
For the full year 2011 again based on the current forward curve and which has crude oil averaging about $105 a barrel for the year we're estimating economic fuel price including taxes and hedging to be in the $3.25 to $3.30 per gallon range.
And while this estimate is about $0.05 per gallon below the current market prices for fuel for 2011 it equates to about a $1.5 billion fuel headwind versus last year.
I'll take a couple of minutes to just talk about our hedging philosophy and portfolio.
As usual we've included detail of our hedge positions as well as sensitivity tables in this morning's press release with the goal to minimize the impact of catastrophic energy prices while also optimizing our premium spend.
We continue to aggressively manage our portfolio using a combination of collars call options and call spreads.
We have varying percentages of our estimated fuel consumption hedged at varying WTI crude price levels for the remainder of 2011 through 2014.
At current market prices the hedges that we put in place since late 2008 have market values that now exceed the locked in losses from the de-hedging in late '08 and the total market value of our fuel hedge portfolio today -- or as of two days ago was about $490 million.
Our new hedges as constructed provide coverage for rising prices for the second quarter of 2011.
Over 30% of our consumption is protected for WTI market prices over $110 a barrel and for the full year of 2011 over 40% of our consumption is protected for prices above $110.
As we look to 2012 we have about 60% of our gallons hedged up to $130 again in WTI and 30% hedged from $130 to $145.
But we also have substantial positions with about 50% of our 2013 gallons hedged up to $140 and 40% of our 2014 gallons hedged up to $140.
Our first quarter operating expenses excluding fuel and special items increased 10.3% compared to last year.
On a unit basis our nonfuel costs excluding special items increased 1.9% as expected.
As anticipated the primary drivers were maintenance advertising and revenue-related costs.
Our maintenance unit costs increased 11% year-over-year due to higher airframe repairs associated with routine heavy maintenance checks.
Our advertising unit costs were up 15% year-over-year associated with our All-New Rapid Rewards program launch.
And finally our revenue-related unit costs were up 13% year-over-year due to a 9% increase in our passenger unit revenues a higher number of our passengers paying with credit and an increase in the charge sale discount rate.
Based on our current cost trends we currently expect second quarter 2011 nonfuel unit costs excluding special items to increase in the 3% to 4% range.
The year-over-year increase is due to increased advertising costs to support the continued rollout of our All-New Rapid Rewards program and higher revenue-related costs.
Additionally as you remember second quarter 2010 included an $18 million refund of security fees charged by the TSA that went back to 2005 and that was recorded as a reduction in other operating expenses last year.
For the full year 2011 however we continue to expect our nonfuel unit costs excluding special items to be up in the 2% range.
Again keep in mind that the second quarter and full year nonfuel unit cost guidance does not take into consideration any impact of AirTran acquisition which is intended to close this quarter and the resulting purchase accounting impact to consolidated costs.
I'll take a couple of minutes to talk about our tax rate.
Our first quarter GAAP tax rate was about 72% and as I mentioned earlier it was impacted by the $5 million federal tax settlement as well as the $2 million State of Illinois tax increase.
Excluding these two charges our first quarter tax rate would have been approximately 40%.
And for the full year 2011 we're currently projecting an effective tax rate of approximately 40%.
We ended the first quarter with a very healthy $4.5 billion of unrestricted cash and short-term investments and we continue to have a fully undrawn and available $600 million credit facility.
Our leverage including our off-balance sheet aircraft leases is approximately 40%.
And for the full year 2011 we continue to expect our capital spending to be in the $800 million to $900 million range.
We've got manageable scheduled debt maturities this year of approximately $500 million.
And as of this time we plan to pay off that debt through this year and also fund the cash portion of our pending acquisition with available cash and cash flow from operations.
We ended the quarter with 550 active aircraft in our fleet.
And in terms of 2011 deliveries we recently acquired an additional delivery slot from Boeing resulting in 18 firm orders for 2011 plus the two previously reported leased aircraft.
So in total we plan to take 20 deliveries this year.
Our full year available seat mile capacity remains unchanged and is expected to be up in the 5% to 6% range primarily due to increased aircraft utilization.
For the second quarter our ASMs are expected to increase in the 6% range year-over-year.
Third quarter they'll be up about 5%.
And for the fourth quarter we're anticipating an increase between 2% and 3%.
We have a number of retirements planned for this year to the end of the year with modest fleet growth.
Our schedule is currently for sale through November 4 and we'll be publishing our November and December schedules next month.
As we look forward at our fleet and our capacity plans for 2012 we currently do not have plans to grow.
If anything as Gary noted earlier we are more cautious than ever due to the current fuel environment.
So with that Tom Gary and I are ready to open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question and it comes from Gary Chase with Barclays Capital.
Just one quick thing and then I want to ask about Rapid Rewards.
Laura when you just said that you weren't contemplating any growth for 2012 was that in terms of net fleet or were you trying to telegraph ASM growth more or less flattish for 2012? I think I was assuming net fleet for the most part ASMs are -- you've got year-over-year impacts but just really thinking about it from a net fleet perspective.
And the 800s [Boeing 737-800] quite frankly we don't know exactly how many airplanes we’ll retire yet next year.
We do know how many airplanes we'll take but yes at this point we like -- I'll just repeat what Laura said.
We are more cautious now than we were before about our outlook beyond our published schedule.
And we didn't have plans to grow the fleet before anyway.
So if anything we're less inclined obviously Gary to grow now in terms of the fleet than we were before.
ASMs we'll just have to see what kind of schedule opportunities emerge.
And I am hopeful that we've got opportunities with the 800 to generate more revenue and traffic with that departure.
But that's still under study as well.
Okay.
And then with Rapid Rewards going into effect on March 1 or the change in Rapid Rewards I should say one of the things that I assume you have to do now is you have to make assumptions about how all these program changes are going to affect redemptions and so on and so forth.
I'm wondering if there have been any ramifications that we should be aware of.
In other words was this sort of distorting any of the monthly picture for RASM? Did you maybe have to be a little bit more cautious? Is it having any impact looking forward or thus far should we think of it as benign? Yes so you're probably talking about accounting changes or anything that would be.
.
.
Yes exactly.
In other words are you reserving a higher portion of your revenue? Something that would maybe affect an outsider's interpretation of the revenue that you're posting is what I'm focusing on.
No there is nothing material in terms of the accounting for the old and the new program in March that would distort any of the revenue trends that we gave so absolutely not.
So it's not in March that we -- nothing in April May any of these months that we're going to see or at least not expected? No.
And then just last what should we expect in the early going on the AirTran acquisition? I mean is it -- should we just think of it from a modeling point of view that you're going to operate as two totally separate companies for some period of time and how long do you think we should expect that? Well we don't have a lot of new information to provide today first of all.
I do think that once we close and we have full access to what is currently proprietary and confidential AirTran information I think we'll be in a position after that to give you more insight as to our plans.
But we have questions too before we can answer you.
So I think the short answer is on May 2 and for some time thereafter Bob Jordan will step in and work with Bob Fornaro and they'll do the best they can to continue to operate a very fine AirTran airline.
And so we'll continue to operate it.
We'll continue to have the AirTran brand.
Its policies its procedures its product features will be unchanged for some period of time which will be at least months.
It won't be days or weeks.
It will be something longer than that.
Their published schedule is out to the end of the year and maybe beyond so we don't have any plans as we speak today to change that schedule.
Just acknowledging that once we dive in on May 2 we may see some things that we like or don't like and we might try to tinker with the schedule in terms of making some changes before the next publish date comes out.
So the marketing of AirTran is something that we're also contemplating just how much of a push we might want to put behind the AirTran brand during this transition period.
So because the products are different Gary we're going to have to do something I think to make sure that customers aren't confused in thinking that now they can go to AirTran and they're going to get the Southwest product and vice -- or I don't think it'll be vice versa but we'll need to do something to make sure that we keep that brand alive during this transition period.
Okay guys.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Jim Parker with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Gary and Laura correct me if I'm wrong here but I believe that the total dollar impact of the fare increases the 7s since mid-December is almost $30? And I'm curious that's on a base in the fourth quarter of about $131 I think.
And I recall this is a lot of years ago but when I would inquire about other airlines doing fare increases and why didn't Southwest go along you often stated that you had to really seriously consider the impact of those increases on the family of four.
So I'm curious a bit now about your -- what you think of the fare increases regarding the family of four? And are you encountering any resistance to those rather cumulative large fare increases? Well we don't like fare increases for all of those reasons.
All the analysis that we have done with respect to each fare increase which of course in my way of thinking about it that means it does take into account the cumulative effect of that.
But our evaluation in a what I think is a sophisticated analysis would show that it's revenue positive so we're not losing customers at the -- for trying to chase a fare increase here.
You just look at the raw statistics and again we set all kinds of traffic records and we're benefiting Jim from an improving economy supporting improving trends in the business travel segment admittedly.
But we're trying to pay careful attention to the two market segments.
And I would certainly concede that there is risk with the consumer segment in particular in continuing to pursue fare increases.
On the other hand like Laura said we're $1.5 billion ahead of last year's fuel bill and $1 billion over our fuel budgets with what we have forecasted.
So not taking a fare increase is not a successful strategy.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just following up on Gary's question about Rapid Rewards is there anything inherent about Southwest business that would prevent you from realizing the same revenue as the legacy carriers? And of course they have far greater international and far greater business traffic but I'm just trying to look at the potential down the road for your Rapid Rewards program in terms of revenue and profits for Southwest.
Jim there might be because we are different and because we are a low fare brand and it might be that we may not have the same appeal to all business travelers that some more premium products might offer.
But we haven't assumed that and we have a business case that we believe is very sound that shows that we have very dramatic potential to grow the program but certainly to grow the absolute numbers of passengers on Southwest Airlines that are flying for business.
So whether we'll get our "fair share" eventually I don't know but we've got a long way to go and a tremendous upside and the trends are very supportive of that vision.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Gary and Laura can I ask you to just follow up a little bit on the comments that you made on the fare increases? It's not clear to me what the straw is that pushes you over in deciding when to match and when not because if you don't match it doesn't go through.
It's pretty clear.
So I don't understand what the tipping point is that gets you over that decision.
How do you think about that? Well I don't know that I can give you a punch list.
I don't know that I would want to and certainly can't describe what we might do next in terms of our fares.
But all markets aren't equal all market segments aren't equal and I think any good business would introduce change evaluate the effect of the change and then reset the next action.
So a logical concern in other words is to have this series of unprecedented really fare increases that are difficult to evaluate according to some historic standard.
And getting back to what I think Jim Parker was asking are we sure that we're increasing fares productively i.e.
actually raising revenues? So we're doing that at a pace that we're comfortable with and we're also -- #1.
And #2 we're also determined to maintain our low fare brand which is a comparative and I think it takes some time actually see how our competitors are revenue managing.
So part of the answer is to Jim's family of four which I never really got to is there's an array of fares and people all have an equal opportunity to book early and to get a very low fare.
And so I think people may change their booking habits somewhat and we just need to see how effective the fare increases are including those changes in booking habits because we'll find competitors offering on any given day on any given flight some very very cheap fares and despite the fact that fares have increased.
But overall we're in an environment where we are chasing very high fuel prices and certainly admit that we're going to have to take the fare increases that we've taken.
Okay.
Gary can I ask you about your comments on the 737 the recent issues in the fuselage? I don't know how to think about this but if we look at kind of what happened there and some of the fatigue issues that you found elsewhere is it possible that maybe some of the more modern aircraft aren't quite as durable as the tanks that used to fly around? And so maybe the intensity of the Southwest model means these aircraft don't have the life that we once thought they did.
How do you think about sort of your fleet needs in that context? Well Bill I haven't concluded that at all.
The Boeing 737-300 of course is the airplane involved in that event and the 300s are certainly showing that they have a very long life.
Our oldest 300 last year was just retired and it was retired at age 26.
So the predecessor to the 300 or the classic fleet was the 200s and Laura as I recall we flew them to about age 25.
Yes a little bit longer.
So although they in fairness to your question they probably had more cycles on them than an equivalent 300.
The 700s of course the next gen airplane is designed differently and that's a question for Boeing.
But at least what Boeing tells us is they don't expect the same kind of fatigue that we're experiencing with the classic fleet.
But again we've got a lot of 737s.
We've got four years of experience.
We know how to do the inspection and the repair programs and are constantly updating that.
So we have not concluded that the useful life of the 700s are going to be different than what we thought when we bought the airplane at least say it that way.
The 300s of course the life of the 300s are purely a function of how much effort our Chief Operating Officer and all of his folks want to continue to go through in terms of inspecting and repairing the airplanes.
And we don't expect to hear anything different but if we do hear something different from the NTSB we'll then as I said we'll react to that accordingly.
Okay.
Thanks for the time.
We'll take our next question with Dan McKenzie of Hudson Securities.
Inc.</strong> One thing that jumped out in the press release was the return on invested capital calculation of 10% pretax and I know you are targeting 15%.
But given where we're at here how are you thinking about that return I guess internally for the year? And I guess what I'm getting at is I know you've talked in the past about perhaps getting close to that but not hitting it this year.
Do you feel with the fare increases that we've had so far that you're closing that gap or treading water or how do we think about the footrace here? Dan certainly when we saw you all at Investor Day in December we laid out a goal of reaching our ROIC 15% pretax in 2012 and we outlined a goal of having an ROIC target in 2011 that exceeded our cost of capital on an after-tax basis.
Certainly when we made those -- talked to you about those goals we were looking at a different fuel price outlook.
Fortunately our revenue trends have been stronger and we've been able to pass a lot of fare increases through since then.
But I think it's just too early to tell and give you any type of forecast for 2011.
Our goals haven't changed and we are working hard to achieve those.
And if you have anything you want to add to that Gary? Well no just the obvious Dan.
So redirect us if we're not addressing your question but we're $1 billion over our fuel budget.
That just puts it $1 billion farther away from making progress on our ROIC target.
We know that.
The game is not over in 2011 so we're building for the future.
We've made a lot of progress in less than five years time in terms of improving our capability to deal with higher fuel costs.
But with $112 WTI I think both of us would admit that we're not going to hit a 15% return target with the current model that we've got running today.
So we're going to have to continue to evolve that and that means continuing to find ways to boost revenues #1 and continuing to find ways to find cost offsets #2.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
No I appreciate that.
Maybe I can come at it I guess a little bit differently here.
And I guess if we look at the fare increases that Southwest has passed along this year do you feel like -- and I'm actually going back for the past 12 months do you feel like the demand elasticity changes each time you put through a fare increase so that perhaps a little less of it hits the bottom line? Or do you feel like that demand elasticity if you're looking at that trend rate has that been pretty constant or pretty consistent over the past year and from what we're seeing today? Well I'll answer it first this time and while Laura thinks about that but yes I think especially in the short order each additional fare increase logically it would -- I would expect it to be less effective.
And we won't know for a while until we can look back and evaluate the effectiveness of that fare increase.
But I think the shorter the cycle between the increases the more likely that the next increase is going to be less productive.
I completely agree with that.
I don't feel like we've reached a tipping point back to Bill Greene's question.
In other words we wouldn't have taken a fare increase this week unless we were reasonably confident that it would be effective.
I mean why do that if you don't think it's going to work? And we're certainly not just throwing it against the wall to see if it will stick.
We're not in that kind of a mindset.
But again we've got record traffic.
We've got clear evidence that we're continuing to win customers away from our competitors.
I think there's a variety of reasons for that.
And our fares are still very affordable and still very low and especially with the array of fares that are offered if you shop early you're going to get an even lower fare.
So I feel very good about where we are.
I think it is more a question of how do we continue to confront higher and higher fuel prices and I don't think we have all the answers there yet.
On the other hand you know that we've got a multiyear investment program to continue to improve Southwest Airlines.
If you look back I would hope that it gives you confidence that we can execute and that there is reason to feel confident about our ability to execute in the future.
Yes and Dan I'm going to really answer more on the first question because I don't have anything different than Gary on your elasticity.
But in terms of the ROIC Gary pointed out we have initiatives and the three are Rapid Rewards which is one month old.
And to Jim Parker's question I think the potential -- so I think we can be better than the other programs because we have a lot of features they don't have.
So we've got to execute and do that but that's a multiyear program for us.
We also have the 800s which aren't going to come ‘til next year and we expect that.
And then finally our big one is AirTran.
So we have those opportunities in front of us and the intent of all those was to close that gap.
So I think timing is more of a question with the extra $1 billion of fuel.
But right now but that's really the go-forward plan.
Inc.</strong> That's great.
Thanks.
I appreciate all the time.
We'll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore Partners.
Thanks.
Just wanted to ask you about sort of mix as a driver of fare improvement versus these headline fair increases.
I mean as we think about numerous fare classes could you just qualitatively talk about the extent that mix helps you versus just the headline fare increase? Well mix is very powerful.
And you know that from history we can see our average fares go up without raising prices just by people moving up in fare classes.
So we've seen steady improvement in our mix 22% up 2 points year-over-year.
But beyond that Duane you even have mix improvement in your core fares.
So if you can move somebody from a low category into a mid-category that's also a fare increase as well.
So I think our revenue management department has done a phenomenal job over the past few years in really refining our RM techniques and we've seen a lot of the -- if you look at our RASM gains from 2007 a lot of that has been from better revenue management which is a mix issue.
So...
Thanks and then just going back to April how would you characterize that sort of relative to your normal seasonal trend? And I know you've got some shifting holidays.
It was a little bit confusing to me because I thought the later Easter/Passover would have actually sort of aided your April comp.
But how would you characterize it in terms of normal sort of x seasonal trends? Yes so if we look at -- and I think it's probably easiest to look at March April May kind of together.
If we look at our March performance it was strong.
It exceeded our sequential trends what we would have normally expected versus February.
But then you look at April relative to March and it's trending lower than normal sequential trends.
If we go back and look at a really late Easter I think it's the 24th this year and it doesn't happen that often that you have this late of an Easter.
It is normal that it doesn't get the combination of spring break-Easter combined traffic.
But when we look at our May forecast as we sit here today compared to April it's performing sequentially better than you would expect.
So I think it's easier to look at those three months to combine stronger March stronger May and a less strong April just because of that shift.
So...
I think it's somewhat fair to say we didn't necessarily predict this lumpiness.
So just to repeat we're ahead of trend in March.
We're lower than trend in April.
It is rare that you have Easter so late and it's not conjoined to spring break and we are convinced that there was a spring break travel benefit that is more like a March with Easter in it.
And now we've sort of got this unexpectedly strong May which you can't quite account for all that.
So you put it all together and I think again as usual we'll have to get past it and look back and probably fit the analysis to it.
But I thought what Laura said by taking March April May as a three-month period it looks fine and it's got some weird things year-over-year.
But Easter does this to us almost -- if you look back at our evaluation of our spring business Easter is always a factor.
And it's kind of interesting how that is.
But the timing moves all over the place and it does change the travel trends it seems like.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Duane.
We'll take our next question from Glenn Engel with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Couple of questions.
One on AirTran I guess I'm a bit puzzled.
You have a May 2 closing date but I haven't -- how can you make a closing date until you hear from the Justice Department? We are anticipating that we'll hear enough to be confident that we can close.
Second on the maintenance side when does it start to come back down again? Or is this the new rate that it's going to stay high at this level? In terms of our maintenance unit costs? Just the overall absolute level cost but I guess unit costs as well is fine.
Yes.
So for the -- just give me 1 second here.
For the second quarter our maintenance unit costs are expected to be in line with first quarter right? Yes they're going to increase slightly from last year's $0.76 but they're going to be in line with what we had in the first quarter if you look at our maintenance unit cost basis.
And I think we probably ought to do a little work to get back to you on that.
So I'll look at Marcy here and there's a couple of things that are going on.
The engine maintenance burden is very normal.
The variation that you're seeing is caused by the airframe component of our maintenance burden.
And we are jockeying our classics to anticipate trying to integrate the AirTran fleet into Southwest Airlines and we do have some additional maintenance spending that's being incurred right now on -- more spending that's being incurred right now on some of our classics than I think will be normal going forward.
And we just don't have a lot of access to additional aircraft on the used market to try to prepare for taking airplanes out of AirTran service so we can put them through a conversion process to integrate it into Southwest Airlines.
So I hope it's a little lumpy here in the first half of 2011.
But again we'll do a little work to get back to you on that.
Yes Glenn I can answer it.
So on a unit cost basis we're currently projecting second quarter maintenance to be slightly over last year's unit costs.
But it's also expected to be less than the first quarter.
So first quarter was certainly higher on a unit cost basis and year-over-year increase.
And I guess finally when I look at the overall unit cost x fuel and compare it to the industry here in the first half it still looks like you're running about 2 points more than the industry and yet you're growing much faster than the industry.
So why does your cost advantage continue to get smaller even as your growth has picked up? Well I think if you look at our cost inflation Glenn in the first quarter we're up 1.9%.
It was really driven by the maintenance which was a little more heavily weighted as Gary pointed out in the first quarter.
We also consciously increased our advertising spend in the first quarter to roll out our Rapid Rewards program and then the third item was the revenue related.
So if you kind of take those three items that's where most of our cost pressure is coming from.
If we look at the other categories it's inflationary or less than inflationary levels.
Well and beyond that first of all quarters don't make trends.
But I think we’d have to study exactly the argument that you're making is that our competitors’ costs are improving while ours are getting worse.
So we'd have to study that question.
The reason that we're doing what we're doing is because we believe that we have a cost advantage that we have a sustainable cost advantage.
We have a brand advantage where we can win more customers which we've demonstrated and we have plans to continue to improve the business model at Southwest Airlines.
So that's why we're doing what we're doing and we continue to have a very dramatic cost advantage especially over the legacy carriers.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Just a real quick one here.
Laura on the -- when you went to the special charges or to go from the $0.04 to $0.03 did that include the tax piece or is the tax piece outside of that? The taxes were not a special item.
So the special items were just the FAS 133 noncash fuel items and the AirTran integration costs.
So we did not include the taxes as a special item.
I think if they were it would have been $0.04 EPS.
Okay.
That’s all I had.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Trahan.
So if oil prices let's just say run to $150 $160 maybe $175 again and you find yourself again in a position with the competitive advantage due to your hedge book although albeit a probably much smaller one this time around is there anything you might do differently this time based on what you learned from the advantage that you had in 2008? Well I think so.
I think that we have learned things since 2008.
I think a lot of our -- with respect to the hedging component the hedging program we've made some adjustments to our hedging program to be better prepared for a collapse in the energy market especially with respect to collateral management that where we were in 2008.
So that's already in place.
In terms of how we would manage the business et cetera we've got more flexibility built in today with fleet management and therefore capacity management.
We have better tools.
They were just coming into vogue in 2008.
So I think in fairness to us we would use those tools aggressively and it would probably -- I would hope it would mean a faster response to managing our capacity as wisely as we can to that higher cost environment.
We have -- we were pretty aggressive in 2008 in terms of our revenue management and the fares.
But every year we've gotten better with that category too.
So I think that would be also a quick action.
The hedging program is in place to buy us time to keep the company healthy so that we can make the adjustments that we deem necessary.
And it's an extension in other words Hunter of having a strong balance sheet a lot of liquidity and just those financial strength that allow one to withstand the downturns in the economy.
It's just -- the downturn comes in a different way with the fuel price spike and that's what the hedging program is designed for and that's the way we would use it.
I think that's a good point Gary.
Thanks.
And I guess maybe that begs to kind of a follow-up then is don't you think the strength of your balance sheet maybe this is just sort of a theoretical question but don't you think the strength of your balance sheet could allow you to not hedge at all where you don't necessarily have to respond as quickly as say U.S.
Airways would.
The urgency might not be there.
So you save $150 million a year in annual hedge premium expense.
You have the balance sheet to sort of absorb the run-up in fuel and if it does collapse again you'll just be fine as well.
No that's not the real world.
The real world is when prices start soaring and you just look back at history airlines go into a panic and they don't have time to work through the kinds of adjustments that are absolutely critical to be successful.
There were airlines that raised fares in 2008.
They did not work and they were forced to furlough ground airplanes and it had a very damaging long-term effect to the balance sheet to their brand to their cultures and many of them simply went out of business.
So there are -- and you can articulate them.
There are at least six or seven meaningful enterprise risk in an airline and each one has to be very carefully managed.
And so to use resources that are available to manage some of the nonfuel risk and have them all sucked into fuel I think is a tragic mistake.
And so no we won't do that.
And by the way at least with the current hedge portfolio there is no net fuel program fuel hedging program expense.
The mark-to-market more than covers the premiums that are spent.
So over a long period of time which is the only way a program like this can be thought of or managed we have not only paid for all the fuel premiums but we're billions of dollars ahead.
$3.5 billion.
So we've had -- 2009 and 2010 are two years out of '12 if you start with 2000 where we had actually net expense in the program.
I don't like that and I do think that we probably made some good adjustments here that will help mitigate even that risk going forward.
But no you're not going to convince Southwest Airlines not to hedge but thanks for asking.
All right.
I really appreciate the perspective.
Thanks a lot.
And I appreciate yours too Hunter.
Thank you.
We have time for one more question.
We'll take our last question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Gary when we think about Southwest margins obviously they've run at a premium to the industry for many decades.
If you look at AirTran recent margin performance it's been below the industry average.
You've said that the deal wasn't about cost.
AirTran CASM will probably migrate up closer to your level which at first blush would suggest that the deal may turn out to be accretive but it probably will leave Southwest with a lower level of margin production.
Is that the way we should be thinking about the company going forward? And if not could you try to identify for us some of the individual line items changes in the AirTran contribution that you'd be able to identify that would help bring the pro forma margins back up to what they otherwise would have been pre-deal? I think we've got you and I think the short answer is I don't see and Laura can correct me here.
So we know a lot more today about the AirTran cost post-close than we did when we announced the deal on September 27.
I think what we know today is better than what we thought September 27.
And a lot of it of course not a lot of it but some of it Jamie depends on what you think AirTran's cost structure was going forward because where they were with their labor deals wasn't sustainable.
True.
So some part of the increase in labor they were going to have in any event.
But even taking full credit for converting from where they were to where they'll be which still has to be negotiated by the way.
But even taking full credit for that I'd see it as a cost neutral.
So long story short with that 20% to 25% of our capacity I do not see that moving all the way to the Southwest average if you will.
I think we'll be able to keep their cost structure intact through some offsets and I think we've shared those.
But Laura might do that.
So we're still -- the story is still a net synergy question.
And like any revenue discussions we're going to have to prove it to you and prove it to ourselves that the opportunity is there.
But that's our story and we're sticking to it.
We still believe that the $400 million net synergies which is primarily a revenue story is a very attainable target.
But again we would all fully admit that we still have to go make it happen.
Okay.
Thanks.
I guess this will be the part where I thank everybody for attending the Southwest conference call but I don't want to steal your thunder.
So that's your job.
And I would be happy for you to do that.
Then I'll turn it back over to Laura.
Thank you everyone as Jamie just noted for joining us today.
Marcy and Ryan are available for calls and we hope you all have a great weekend.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Ginger Hardage Senior Vice President of Culture and Communications.
Great.
Thank you Tom.
So we'd like to welcome everyone.
I hope you were able to hear the first portion of the call and now we'll begin taking questions from the media for Gary and Laura.
So Tom if you want to remind everyone of what they need to do and we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question from Sheryl Jean with Dallas Morning News.
I believe that you said there's -- that you expect this year a 5% to 6% increase in capacity.
But I'm wondering is that completely due to the addition of AirTran aircraft or is that expectation independent of that? It's in fact it does not include any effect of AirTran.
That's just Southwest on its own account.
So whether we buy it -- well without AirTran it's a 5% to 6% available seat mile increase and it's largely driven by more flights per airplane per day this year than what we were doing last year.
So in other words we're not growing our fleet 5% to 6%.
We're just flying our fleet a little bit more which is really more normal for us utilization than what you saw in 2010.
We purposefully cut a lot of our flight activity with concerns about the economy last year.
And so that doesn't include the Boeing jets that you'll be taking delivery of next year also.
So based on that what kind of an expectation of increased capacity might you have for 2012? 2012 it's probably a little early to give you a forecast there where we don't – we haven't made our final fleet plans.
Our working assumption is that we'll keep our fleet roughly flat with where we end 2011 and there's bound to be -- unless we take some more significant action in 2012 to reduce our flying we'll have a little bit of growth next year.
Do you have addition on that Laura? No we've got 20 airplane deliveries and we'll have some retirements and that will all be refined.
But it'll be if anything it'd be very modest.
Okay.
Do you have any sense as to whether fuel prices are peaking and how high do you think they possibly can go? The fair answer to your question is no we don't have a sense.
We're just like you.
It's a free country and we're all free to make our predictions I guess.
I think that I'll just speak for Gary and Laura can give you her personal perspective.
But clearly fuel prices are very high and they don't seem to be supported at all by fundamentals.
There's plenty of oil around the globe.
And what the issue seems to be all the turmoil in the Middle East and by extension the speculation that there could be a disruption in supply because of all that uncertainty.
It would be based on some future event obviously and that wouldn't be good for oil supplies.
So I would hope that we are peaking and I would hope that we'll see $20 come out of crude oil prices.
Our issue as a net consumer is that we can't plan our business based on hope.
So we'll have to take today's reality and construct a plan over the next 18 months that we'll anticipate continued high energy prices.
But I hope that you're right and I hope that the fundamentals will prevail here and we'll see a significant decline in energy prices.
Well I don't know what they're going to do either.
Okay.
I'll let someone else have their call but I might come back I mean a question rather.
And we'll take our next question from Kelly Yamanouchi with The Atlanta Journal Constitution.
I was wondering if you could just explain what Bob Jordan's responsibilities will be in particular versus the integration board and also where he'll be based.
Be happy to and if it's not out already there will be a press release.
It just came out.
Very good.
So it describes Bob's role a little bit more.
But Bob is of course one of our longtime executives one of our key executives.
And that he has very broad responsibilities at Southwest today as an Executive Vice President and that will continue.
Since he has so much spare time I gave him this extra job to be President of AirTran.
But AirTran will be obviously gradually winding down its activities over the next couple years.
And Southwest Airlines will assume a lot of the corporate-style activities very early on.
General Counsel-type functions as an example will move to Southwest very very quickly.
So Bob will be responsible for the day-to-day business at AirTran.
He'll be working with our integration team who are the folks that have constructed the processes and the effort to translate AirTran into Southwest Airlines so he'll be working with those folks.
I would expect that Bob will be on the road some but most of the time I think he'll be able to operate here in Dallas.
AirTran has a very fine corps of leaders and crew members.
So that's one of the reasons that we wanted to acquire them in the first place is that they have a very good business.
So it's not like Bob needs to go in and fix things at all.
And I know he and I and others are very much looking forward to working with our new AirTran team members.
Great.
And then I have a separate question a follow-up on that passenger mix question.
I was wondering if you can explain a little bit about how you move bookings from one fare bucket to another up in the chain that is.
I wish I could.
It is a mystery to me.
No we have sophisticated technology that establishes probabilities for demand at varying fare levels.
There are some customers that are very price sensitive.
There are some customers that are not and the idea is to make as many seats available to as many people and still be able to pay our bills and the more people we can put on the airplane the lower the overall fares are the result.
So there are – what you end up with is a certain number of seats set at various fare levels and it's very dynamic based on the demand.
And it's a dynamic based on the time of day and it's a dynamic based on the individual market.
So it's all very customized and at least with Southwest Airlines you get a very simple approach.
You get a very consistent approach and it's all with an eye towards being transparent with our customers and maintaining a low-fare leadership within the airline industry.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from David Koenig with The Associated Press.
Just wanted to Gary wanted to clarify one thing.
In your answer to Jim Parker you kind of talked what sounded to be hypothetically about the risk that higher fares could affect your leisure travel demand.
But on TV this morning it sounded like you were actually talking about reality what you were seeing.
So I was wondering which is it that you talked about consumer demand being erratic.
Is this something you're already seeing? Are these fare increases already affecting response on your leisure side? Well David you'll just have to remind me what I said this morning because I don't remember making a statement like that.
You said that consumer demand was something I think you did use the term erratic.
You said business demand was still good and that there was some -- I wish I had it on my screen but I put it away.
But you did say that airlines try to push fares up to cover fuel costs.
I think it's inevitable that you're going to see some pushback from the consumer so I wondered if… It's the same comment in other words.
So that was an industry comment and an obvious point.
I was also questioned this morning about a fare sale that JetBlue was having and I don't remember if that conversation was in that context.
But it was kind of along the lines of why would they be having a fare sale.
So I was just trying to help analyze why that might be.
But I would just go back to what I've been saying all day which is you had every conceivable record set in the first quarter.
So our demand environment including both consumers and business travelers has been very strong and that's what we're anticipating here for the second quarter.
Okay.
And then if I can ask one other thing.
You must be very close on the regulatory side on the AirTran.
Or do you expect that you're going to have to meet any conditions or divestitures? We are not aware of any outstanding questions that the regulators have and including the Department of Justice.
So you're not aware that they're going to ask you to make any divestitures? Well there's -- yes.
You and we are not aware of any request from the Department of Justice.
So there's no information that we have or that you have on that point.
All right.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Timothy Martin with the Wall Street Journal.
Gary and Laura thanks for taking my call.
I know it's been quite a marathon so far for both of you.
I had to jump out really quick so I apologize if this has already been asked.
But can you give any insights on what capacity might look like in the second quarter? Yes you want for Southwest Airlines? Yes go ahead sorry.
Yes.
We expect to be up in the 6% range.
That's right.
It's 8% in the first quarter so it's going to be up roughly 6% in the second quarter.
And then do you see any changes to that given where fuel prices are and other factors? For the second quarter no.
Our schedule is out there through November and we don't anticipate any change in our second quarter capacity.
And again as we try to describe that when you or others ask us that question we're published.
I mean we're published out through November and we're comfortable that we've got absent any unforeseen events we're comfortable that our revenue trends assuming that they continue even with these higher fuel prices that we'll have at least a decent profit.
And so the question -- the way we think about your question is much more the next schedule that we're going to publish which is why we try to guide you to the way we're thinking about 2012.
So we're thinking very carefully about 2012 with an eye towards fuel prices obviously and what is sensible for that time period.
So we don't have an answer for you there but we'd certainly admit that these prices get our attention and we'll have to be mindful of that.
We have no plans to grow next year because of that.
I think it's more a question of do we want to eliminate some of our less profitable flights beginning of day end of day.
Those would be easy things for our network planners to deal with.
We're not thinking about grounding airplanes.
We're not thinking about furloughing employees.
We're not thinking about making any changes to our 2011 published schedules at this point.
All right.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Karen Jacobs with Reuters.
Thanks.
Some of my questions have already been asked but wanted to go back to the AirTran.
So how soon do you expect to hear from the Justice Department on this? Well I would...
I would think pretty soon.
I can't describe to you the kinds of conversations that we have had with the Department of Justice.
But obviously we haven't received anything that is public from them.
And as I said we're planning to close on May 2.
And we believe we'll have everything that we need from a regulatory clearance perspective in place by then.
And obviously by us saying that we must be pretty confident.
Okay.
Thanks.
And we have time for one final question today.
Our last question comes from Andy Compart with Aviation Week.
Just to go back to the 737 inspection question the emergency air worthiness directive just at this point is talking about you have to reinspect them every 500 cycles.
Can you talk about what potential impact that could have? It's nothing that you would detect.
So we have extensive ongoing maintenance and inspection procedures already.
Those airplanes were already coming in for 500 cycle inspections.
So admittedly there's bound to be some incremental effort that it's caused Southwest Airlines but again from a big picture it's de minimis.
So we'll do it and we'll do it happily and we'll I think -- I'm not worried about any of that Andy.
We'll take care of that and we'll fix anything that we find as we always do.
I think what is less clear is exactly where the NTSB investigation proceeds and what type of discovery they might make and what kind of work that might involve.
That's just -- those are unknown -- those are questions and therefore we don't have answers yet.
I'm not anticipating anything bad at all.
But admittedly we need to finish that investigation and see what the findings are and react accordingly.
And then on the DOT passenger rights rules issued this week do you see any financial operational impact on Southwest from those and why or why not? I think we need to study all that.
And to give you a more insightful answer a more thoughtful answer I think the -- we're focused on customer service anyway.
We do everything that we can do to maintain a very strong direct transparent relationship with our customers.
There's bound to be something in that rulemaking that we'll have to build to comply with because it does appear to me at least superficially that it's pretty extensive.
But I can't give you anything off the top of my head here.
I just haven't had time to study it personally.
Okay.
Thanks.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back over for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for being on the call today.
And as you know I hope you have this number close at hand always.
If you have any follow-up questions don't hesitate to call our great Communication Department at (214) 792-4847.
I almost gave you my own number.
Anyway thank you for being on the call today and we'll talk to everyone next time.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to Southwest Airlines' Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today's conference.
Today's call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone.
On the call today we have Gary Kelly Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President Planning and Strategy and President of AirTran Airways; and Laura Wright Senior Vice Present Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
We will begin today's call with opening comments from Gary.
Laura will then review our second quarter results and current outlook.
And Bob will close with an update on our integration of AirTran before we open the call for questions.
Before we get started please be advised that this call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
This call will also include references to non-GAAP results therefore please see this morning's earnings release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and for reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
This morning's second quarter 2011 earnings release includes Southwest's results for the full quarter and AirTran results from May 2 the date of the acquisition through June 30.
Prior year results are Southwest only.
In order to provide what we believe to be more meaningful year-over-year comparison on today's call we will also be discussing specified results on a combined basis which will include AirTran's results for all periods prior to the acquisition.
In addition outlook commentary will be provided on a combined basis as compared to combined prior period results.
And finally the impact of purchase accounting has been applied as of the date of the acquisition May 2 in all financial information discussed.
We have provided supplemental current and prior year financial information on a combined basis in this morning's press release and in a supplemental packet posted this morning on the Investor Relations section of our website at southwest.com.
And now I'll turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
And thank you very much Marcy.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
First of all I wanted to start by thanking Laura and her entire team and especially Marcy in Investor Relations and Leah Koontz our Controller and our accounting department.
They have done a superb job in a particularly challenging quarter given the acquisition of AirTran.
So thank you all very much.
I'm very confident whatever questions you have about the quarter from whatever angle they can answer that.
So as you all work your way through the second quarter numbers I'll just tell you from personal experience please be patient and you can find your answers.
But again our kudos to the whole finance department.
Great great job.
Second of all $0.15 a share was pretty much in line with our Southwest expectations.
And that is recognizing there was no public guidance for the AirTran piece of the results.
And that of course the AirTran results were just for 2 months out of the quarter.
So regardless though of the expectations the results were down from a year ago down 48%.
Obviously we can't be satisfied with that.
The primary culprit obviously is fuel.
Our second quarter revenue results were strong.
We had records across the board.
For a number of years we've significantly outperformed the domestic industry.
If you look at Southwest 2011 second quarter results we're up 27% versus 4 years ago.
So it's hard for me to complain about our revenue performance.
Compared to our industry peers we're often in a different rhythm at Southwest Airlines it seems.
The comps for Southwest are tough compared to last year.
We had a bang-up performance in 2010.
But in any event revenues are strong.
While they are strong and I think that strength will continue based on July's results based on our current trends based on bookings for August and September the rate of growth has slowed probably beginning in June where we report very modest unit revenue growth for the month of July.
Once we publish our July traffic I believe we'll see stronger year-over-year RASM growth in August September.
If you look at the full quarter my best guess at this point is that we'll be up year-over-year somewhere in the low single-digits range on a combined basis.
I do believe though we've seen some softening in business travel this summer and base that on demand for full-fare close in bookings I don't know whether it will pick back up any time soon.
Probably state the obvious I am concerned about the U.S.
economy concerned about fuel prices.
The current level of profits obviously demands that we take action which right now is to manage our capacity more aggressively and very very carefully.
AirTran announced earlier this week that it will close 4 cities next year.
And Southwest announced the previous week that we'll no longer fly to certain city pairs beginning with our January flight schedule.
And as the AirTran integration and conversion begins in 2012 we'll have lots of opportunities to optimize the 2 route systems especially the AirTran side of the route system and drive substantial unit revenue gains with that conversion.
Of course AirTran is 1 of 4 large initiatives that we have strategic initiatives that we have at Southwest.
Our all new Rapid Rewards program which launched in March is another one that's well underway and very much on track.
Adding the 737-800 is a third initiative that's well underway and on track for first half delivery of 2012.
And then finally our reservation system replacement is a fourth significant initiative.
That's a future project and no timetable is set on that as of yet.
But clearly those are important initiatives and are certainly requiring our very keen attention.
So with that very quick overview along with -- again my thanks for a great effort once again in this quarter.
I'd like to turn it over to Laura Wright our CFO.
Thank you Gary and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter 2011 GAAP net income was $161 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
Our GAAP second quarter results included 2 special items.
First we had a net $141 million of non-cash mark-to-market gains related to our fuel hedge portfolio which were reported in other gains and losses.
And second we incurred $58 million of acquisition and integration costs before taxes primarily for financial advisory fees and severance payments related to the AirTran acquisition.
As a result of a modification to our profit sharing plan this quarter in general our one-time acquisition and integration costs that are identified as special items will be deferred from a profit sharing calculation through December 31 of 2013.
Beginning in 2014 we will start to amortize the accumulated deferred costs to the profit sharing calculation in a systematic manner.
The intention of this plan change was to better align the costs associated with the acquisition and integration to the periods that we should be realizing the expected synergy benefits.
Excluding those special items our second quarter 2011 non-GAAP earnings were $121 million or $0.15 per diluted share and a breakdown of that is $104 million profit from Southwest and $17 million from AirTran.
This was below Wall Street's expectation of $0.20 per diluted share which included analysts' estimates of AirTran's second quarter results which as Gary alluded to we had not previously provided any guidance on.
The impact of our fair valuation of AirTran under purchase accounting as of May 2 resulted in an immaterial net reduction to our second quarter net income.
Our current estimate of the ongoing impact of purchase accounting will be incorporated into the forward-looking revenue and cost guidance that we provide.
But before I walk you through our second quarter results and provide insight into our third quarter 2011 outlook I want to reiterate what Marcy said.
Any year-over-year trend guidance will be based on our current expectations of Southwest and AirTran's combined third quarter performance as compared to Southwest and AirTran's combined performance either in the second quarter of 2011 or the third quarter of 2010 as noted.
Those prior period combined results are posted on southwest.com.
On the revenue side we continue to have an outstanding revenue performance.
We saw the number of all-time quarterly records including passenger revenues of $3.9 billion total operating revenues of $4.1 billion a load factor of 82.3% a 28.1% increase in traffic and in plane passengers.
We also had record passenger unit revenues record total unit revenues and record passenger revenue yields.
While our second quarter results included AirTran for the month of May and June all of these records were also achieved based on Southwest's standalone revenue results.
So again a tremendous result from our revenue management team.
Our passenger revenues grew $860 million or 28.5% from last year's $3 billion Southwest-only results.
And about 54% of this result was attributable to AirTran's revenues in the second quarter and the remaining $400 million of increased revenues was due to organic growth at Southwest.
On a combined basis our passenger unit revenues grew 7.2% versus last year and our total unit revenues grew 7.4%.
In April the combined PRASM was up 4% to 5%.
May combined PRASM was up 11% to 12% and our June combined PRASM was up in the 5% to 6% range.
Southwest's PRASM performance on a standalone basis was up between 6% and 7% as indicated in our monthly traffic update.
AirTran's PRASM on a standalone basis was up closer to 9% for the quarter which when weighted for its size dropped our combined PRASM to 7.2%.
While load factors remained at record levels Southwest's mix of full-fare passengers for the second quarter was down 3 points to 19% from the first quarter of 2011 which was also off as normal historical sequential trends.
AirTran's full-fare mix was 3% down from 4% in the first quarter of 2011 and up from 2.5% in the second quarter of 2010.
That being said our Business Select product had another strong performance with $25 million in quarterly revenues and our Wright Amendment revenues continued to grow and were a healthy $63 million in the second quarter which was a 15% increase from last year.
We've implemented 8 fare increases since mid-December which is certainly aggressive.
And in light of the economic uncertainty we're continuing to monitor the demand environment closely.
And as Gary noted we can certainly see the impact of fare increases have had on our near end full-fare travel.
We started getting a little more aggressive with some of our summer promotions and we have seen demand in the back half of July respond well.
Again indicating that customers are price-sensitive.
We will be reporting our combined July traffic soon.
And at this time we are expecting that our combined July passenger unit revenues will be up in the 1% range from the combined July PRASM of last year.
From July 23 through August 1 we've sold tickets with $36 million of incremental revenues based on the fare increase that we took after the expiration of the excise tax.
However we would expect a seasonal adjustment going forward if the ticket tax is not reinstated.
And again to Gary's point we do expect that our year-over-year comparisons will improve each month during the quarter.
July is certainly the most difficult with our July capacity up 6% versus last year on a combined basis and also compared to a July 2010 performance of up 18%.
In August our combined ASMs will be up 5%.
And in September they will be up 3%.
Again our bookings in place for the rest of the summer look good and we expect continuous high load factors.
And while our July comparisons are difficult and expected to be off normal sequential trends from June we currently anticipate that August and September will return to more normal combined PRASM sequential trends.
Our second quarter freight revenues were $36 million which was up 9.1% slightly ahead of our guidance.
AirTran has no cargo revenue in the second quarter and we certainly look forward to growing that revenue stream in the near future especially with the opportunities we see in Atlanta.
We're currently expecting our third quarter 2011 freight revenues to be comparable to second quarter's $36 million.
We also had a strong second quarter other revenue performance of $224 million.
Our very successful EarlyBird Check-in product contributed approximately $36 million in revenues.
That was up $2 million from the first -- or last quarter and up from $23 million a year ago.
And based on our first half EarlyBird results for 2011 we're definitely on pace to exceed our $100 million target for the year.
Our business partner revenues also continued to grow in response to our March launch of our all new Rapid Rewards program.
We continue to see increases in our credit card applications and our membership and the growth in our member O&amp;Ds and our new members have both outpaced our system gross.
We continue to be encouraged by the overwhelmingly positive customer response to the new program and we're still in the infant stage so we have a lot of opportunity in front of us over the next several years as the program ramps up.
Our pets unaccompanied minors and excess bag charges at Southwest were $14 million in the second quarter.
And on a combined basis total other revenues were up $43 million to $258 million.
$32 million of that $43 million increase was attributable to the Southwest products and $11 million was attributable to AirTran.
We're currently expecting that our third quarter's 2011 combined other revenues will increase from third quarter 2010's combined $223 million primarily due to increased business partner income and EarlyBird revenues.
Turning to costs our second quarter operating expenses excluding special items increased 40% or $1.1 billion year-over-year largely due to a 72% increase in our economic fuel expense.
Our second quarter economic fuel cost per gallon including taxes was $3.28 which was slightly better than our Southwest standalone guidance of $3.30 per gallon range.
Our total hedging gains in the quarter were $0.03 per gallon with a non-hedged fuel price of $3.31 a gallon.
Fuel prices remained persistently high.
In fact the $3.28 per gallon that we paid in the second quarter represents about a 40% increase over last year and is rivaling market prices that we saw in the second and third quarters of '08.
Looking back just one year if we would have paid second quarter 2010 economic fuel prices in the second quarter of this year we would have seen a fuel expense reduction of about $420 million.
We've been disappointed in the large increases that we've seen in our crack spreads since the beginning of the year.
Our second quarter crack spreads averaged $25.50 that compares to $11 a year ago.
And as West Texas Intermediate crude has not risen in accordance with worldwide crude prices we're seeing increased margins to price checks in market levels.
With our crude oil hedging positions exclusively in WTI we've been largely unhedged for this increase in spreads.
The current outlook for the margins relative to crude are forecasted to be up in the $36 range in the third quarter which is over a 200% increase from last year.
On a combined basis our second quarter 2011 fuel cost per gallon including taxes was $3.27 which was $0.05 better than our unhedged fuel cost per gallon.
Based on the forward curve as of August 1 the third quarter 2011 WTI crude prices are expected to average around $96 a barrel.
But again the real story is in the cracks which are pricing to the much higher Brent.
The third quarter crack spreads based on the August 1 forward curve are expected to average around $34 a barrel which is about a $9 increase from what we saw in the second quarter.
Based on our August 1 forward curve and our existing fuel hedge positions we're estimating our third quarter fuel costs including taxes to be approximately $3.30 per gallon which is about $0.03 less than our unhedged fuel price estimate for the third quarter.
For the third quarter of 2011 we're estimating hedging premium costs which are recorded in other will be in $36 million range.
For the full year 2011 again based on the August 1 curve in crack spreads we're estimating a combined economic fuel price including taxes and hedging gains of $3.20 per gallon.
And while we project a net hedging gain this year the full year 2011 combined fuel price estimates equates to about a $1.5 billion capacity adjusted fuel headwind versus 2010.
Non-capacity adjusted the fuel headwind is about $1.8 billion.
I'll just spend a quick moment to address our fuel hedge portfolio going forward.
As usual we've included the detail of our hedge positions as well as sensitivity tables in our press release.
But we have varying percentages of estimated fuel consumption hedged at varying WTI price levels for the remainder of this year and all the way up to 2015.
At current market prices the hedges that we put in place since late 2008 have market values that now exceed the locked-in losses.
And the total value of our hedge portfolio as of June 30 was approximately $370 million.
Our second quarter operating cost expenses excluding fuel and special items increased 9.3% year-over-year on a combined basis.
The unit costs excluding fuel and special items increased to 3.1% to $7.41 compared to $7.19 second quarter of 2010.
On Southwest's standalone basis our non-fuel unit costs excluding special items increased 3.5% which was in line with our guidance.
And AirTran's non-fuel unit costs excluding special items increased about 1% year-over-year.
Again the purchase accounting really had a net 0 impact to our second quarter costs and I wanted to point out that to date we have realized about $10 million in synergies before profit sharing related to the AirTran acquisition.
And those are primarily in our other operating costs.
On an annualized run rate basis we've already produced $50 million of cost synergies before profit sharing and taxes and we have additional work underway for many more significant cost synergies.
Our combined salaries wages and benefit unit costs increased 2.9% primarily due to increased wage rates.
And we also saw some pressure in healthcare costs this quarter.
Other non-fuel cost drivers on a combined year-over-year basis were increased advertising spend and increased revenue-related costs.
And of course at Southwest we had an unfavorable comparison to the prior year where we got the $18 million refund of security fees from the TSA.
Based on our current cost trends we expect our third quarter 2011 combined non-fuel unit costs excluding special items to increase from the third quarter 2010's combined non-fuel unit costs of $0.07 primarily due to higher advertising and airport costs and less ASM capacity.
And the current forecast is at about a 1% year-over-year change on a combined basis.
For the full year 2011 combined non-fuel unit costs x special items we're currently estimating them to be up in the 2% range from 2010's combined $7.45.
Our second quarter GAAP tax rate was approximately 41%.
And it's a little higher rate because some of the integration costs are not deductible causing a slightly higher tax rate.
For the full year of 2011 we're currently projecting an effective GAAP tax rate again in this 41% range.
We ended the second quarter with a healthy cash balance of $4.4 billion of unrestricted cash and short-term investments.
In addition during the quarter we replaced our previous $600 million credit facility with a new 5-year fully undrawn $800 million credit facility.
Our leverage including our off-balance sheet leases is now approximately 50% following the AirTran acquisition.
However we expect that it will fall somewhat by year end to the 45% to 50% range.
During the quarter we generated cash from operations of $237 million and year-to-date cash flow from operations of $1.2 billion.
That easily exceeds our second quarter CapEx of $215 million and year-to-date CapEx of $272 million.
So as a result we've had free cash flow year-to-date of $900 million.
For the full year 2011 we're expecting capital spending in the $900 million range.
And we've got some manageable debt maturities for the remainder of the year about $500 million.
And we have debt obligations maturing in 2012 at about $560 million.
At this time we don't foresee any financing needs given our current debt maturities our current cash balance capital spending plan and cash flow projections.
And finally I'll give you a quick fleet update.
We ended this second quarter with a combined 694 active aircraft in our fleet.
Broken down our combined all-Boeing fleet now consists of 167 737-300s 25 737-500s 414 737-700s and 88 Boeing 717s.
In terms of the full year of 2011 we'll have 20 total deliveries 6 of which are remaining.
And we plan to retire about half of that number of aircraft this year.
As we prepare for the transition of the AirTran fleet to the Southwest airline spec configuration next year we will likely need some additional aircraft in our fleet to cover these additional maintenance lines.
However with over 100 owned 737 Classics in our fleet we have great flexibility to adjust our retirement schedule to accomplish our ongoing fleet replacement needs while maintaining the integrity of our combined network.
Looking at capacity for the full year 2011 our combined ASM capacity is expected to be up in the 4% to 5% range compared to last year.
Third quarter we expect to be up 4% to 5%.
And for the fourth quarter our combined ASMs are expected to be up about 2%.
Last week we published our first coordinated flight schedules for Southwest and AirTran through March 9 of 2012.
And for 2012 we currently have 33 deliveries scheduled.
8 Boeing 700s and 20 800 firm orders.
We got 2 options with Boeing and we have other agreements in place to lease an additional 5 800s.
We plan to retire a like number of aircraft to the deliveries next year.
And as we look at our capacity plans for 2012 we currently expect that the combined capacity will be less than or equal to our combined 2011 capacity.
And given the fragile U.S.
economic environment and persistently high fuel prices we'll continue to be cautious as we plan for 2012.
And with that financial overview I would like to turn the call over to Bob Jordan for an AirTran integration update.
Well thank you Laura and thank you everyone for joining us today.
We have made a lot of progress on the integration since we closed on May 2.
And I'm eager to take you through some of that for a few minutes here.
But of course any discussion of our accomplishments today would not be possible without the hard work and dedication of our employees and that includes both Southwest and AirTran employees.
I've split my time between Dallas and traveling to our AirTran locations this past several months.
I've had the pleasure of interacting with a lot of Southwest employees and meeting a lot of our new AirTran folks.
And I can assure you there's a lot of energy out there being dedicated to making the integration as smooth as possible while of course keeping the day-to-day operation as their absolute top priority.
And on a daily basis I'm just amazed at the shared enthusiasm that people of both Southwest and AirTran have for bringing the 2 companies together and the optimism that they expressed about our shared future.
And I can assure you that optimism is greater not less than it was on May 2 when we closed.
Our people are doing an outstanding job and I want to thank them for their warrior spirits in this exciting and often challenging time.
So now moving on to our progress.
Certainly after close we announced the new leadership structured of the combined companies.
We quickly took measures to enhance our communication channels for all Southwest and AirTran employees to keep everyone updated on the progress we're making on our 2- to 3-year integration timeline.
We immediately began discussing transitional opportunities with AirTran employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements.
And I am thrilled to report that more than 50% of our headquarters AirTran employees have already agreed to join the Southwest family.
And many of those folks have already transitioned to Southwest as key support functions such as finance marketing revenue management and network planning are already being managed out of Dallas by Southwest Airlines.
We also kicked off a One LUV tour in July that put Southwest employees in 8 key AirTran locations to introduce AirTran employees to our culture communications community outreach and benefits offered by Southwest.
And I can tell you from talking to folks the effort was received with great enthusiasm and that One LUV tour winds down next week.
We have also begun to integrate station facilities in cities that we both serve.
To date we've accomplished 9 station transitions in Palm Beach Fort Lauderdale Raleigh-Durham's Kansas City San Antonio St.
Louis New Orleans Las Vegas and Phoenix and we have plans to transition 7 more by the end of September.
And that includes Chicago Midway and Denver next week.
Southwest is also now handling ramp responsibilities for AirTran flights at West Palm Beach Kansas City and San Antonio the first of many of these efforts to come.
We've also streamlined our back office functions where possible and that includes procurement.
That's created immediate efficiencies and cost savings with Southwest's significant buying power.
We've had the opportunity to review and modify many of AirTran's existing contracts primarily in the finance treasury and maintenance areas and we've already realized modest cost synergies in the second quarter.
On the labor front the negotiating committees for our collective bargaining workgroups are in discussions and are making good progress on seniority list integration.
We were very pleased that our 2 pilot groups took the lead on that front with SWAPA ALPA and the company's negotiating committees recently agreeing on a framework to integrate the seniority list there.
And I'm happy to report that late last week the SWAPA board unanimously approved sending a tentative agreement to Southwest pilots for consideration and the ALPA board will meet next week to consider approving the agreement as well.
And if that occurs the agreement then goes to both pilot groups for ratification.
Also on the labor front we've completed a very important preference bid for cross-trained AirTran customer service and ramp employees so that AirTran employees currently serving in a cross-train station could bid for the position that they would prefer after integration with Southwest.
Now until the seniority list integration is complete these employees will continue working as they do today.
But this cross-trained preference bid positions us well for the integration of the workgroups to do that quickly when that time comes.
We are also on track to receive our single operating certificate from the FAA in the first quarter of 2012.
At that time we can then begin transitioning AirTran aircraft into the Southwest livery.
Of course we'll need to manage our active fleet accordingly to make sure that we have enough lift to cover our schedule as we transition the AirTran fleet.
So as Laura mentioned I think you'll see some ebb and flow there in our capacity.
Our crews will also undergo retraining at that time and the changes will begin to become very visible to our customers.
And finally we published our first coordinated flight schedule last week for the winter flying in 2012.
And while that schedule release did not yet connect the networks which we currently expect to do in the first half of 2012 this coordinated schedule is a great first step and it begins to position us to connect the networks in the future.
And it also positions us to provide a more optimized combined network.
The normal seasonal dip in demand in the winter coupled with very high fuel pricing warranted a slightly more dramatic reduction in published trips on a year-over-year basis.
And as Laura noted we are evaluating our 2012 capacity in light of high fuel prices.
And currently I do not expect year-over-year growth in ASM capacity for the combined network.
I absolutely believe we have significant opportunities to optimize our combined network while providing an even better schedule for our customers.
And we are moving as quickly as feasible to achieve our targeted network synergies there.
So in summary just absolutely great progress in a little over 90 days.
And there's a lot more to come.
While there's a lot more work ahead we are exactly where we planned to be in the integration.
And I would tell you I think we are exactly where we should be at this point in the integration.
This is a direct result of the tireless efforts of our people both Southwest and AirTran and the efforts they have committed towards integration.
And I am just very very proud of them.
The multi-year transition process will no doubt include challenges at some times.
But I am confident in our ability to make this acquisition one of the most successful in the history of the airline industry and ultimately one that would create a more efficient stronger and profitable company as a result.
And with that I will turn the call back over to the operator to provide instructions on how to queue up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Gary just wondering if you're disappointed that Boeing isn't building a truly new airplane for you and if you think that the 737 already does deliver enough improvement vis-à-vis whatever your operational needs might be? Interesting question.
I'm just going to give you a pragmatic answer instead of a wishful answer.
I've been a proponent of the re-engining solution for years now.
And I think my only disappointment is we didn't come to this re-engining decision sooner where we could guess a re-engined solution sooner.
So Jamie I'm just skeptical of the timetable to bring forward an all-new aircraft.
Clearly that's where Boeing ended up at the same place and they were concerned about the viability of that kind of a plan.
Talking about 2018 2019 2020 whatever it is that's a long way away.
And a lot can happen in that period of time.
So short answer is I am pleased with the decision.
I'm pleased with the decision to re-engine.
We were aware that that was Boeing's decision before that was made public and which we appreciate.
And we have -- as I think you know we've been in discussions with Boeing about that and other things for quite some time.
So we are anxious to sit down with Boeing and understand just what this reengineer plane is all about.
And that has not happened yet.
But I expect that that will happen soon.
And Boeing continues to be our primary focus and if that all works out to our satisfaction we'll continue to move forward with Boeing.
So I assume this does take off the table any desire to consider other programs out there? Well it does in this sense.
In other words if Boeing can meet our needs then I think there is a scenario where we feel like we're done and we can make a commitment and be eligible to launch this re-engined product with Boeing and perhaps with other airlines.
If they don't well then I think we're obviously -- it's a free country and we'll consider what other options we have.
But our focus at this point is and has been despite some of the more humorous media reports here recently it continues to be with the Boeing Company.
Okay.
And second quick follow-up apologies if I missed this before but can you remind us the level of planned participation in the D.C.
LaGuardia slot swap between Airways and Delta? What plans we have to participate? Yes.
Well I think that we -- first of all we'll see what the procedure will be with the auction.
And we're very interested to increase our presence in the slot-controlled markets for the obvious reasons.
It's just -- it's impossible otherwise to get any additional capacity.
So yes I think you can expect that we're very interested.
And the odds are more likely than not that we'll make a bid.
But at this point I don't think we -- well first of all it's not a done deal.
So until we actually see what it is and how it's going to work I can't give you a real firm answer.
But yes at this point we're definitely thinking that we want to make a bid for those slots.
And we'll take our next question from Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Gary you mentioned price sensitivity among the travelers.
And I am just curious as to your thoughts about weighing the desire to sort of keep some of the tax holiday in the fare versus trying to stimulate some demand by giving it back.
It seems like you've been mostly taking it which I think makes sense but where is sort of the mindset here as we go through the quarter? How do you think about that trade off? Well Bill just start at the beginning of the year when as our thought process has been -- I don't think we're surprised to see the economy in its current state.
But we were hopeful that the recovery would be stronger by now.
In that kind of a strengthening environment we were hopeful that we could deal with the reality of higher fuel cost by passing those cost on with higher fares.
We've had a number of fare increases probably an unprecedented number of fare increases in the first quarter at least 7 this year and probably more Marcy than that.
Clearly I think the report today although Laura or I probably haven't said it we think we've pushed fares about as much as we should right now to be productive.
And now we really need to more aggressively address capacity.
In the first quarter I kind of felt pretty good about capacity.
And obviously with fuel prices in the economic outlook now I think we're going to need to be more aggressive in addressing capacity.
So in that regard yes we need every dollar we can get and especially in light of the fact that second quarter was down 48%.
That's just not anything that is going to satisfy anybody here.
So we have adjusted our fares so that the taxes are kept to be blunt at Southwest.
The same fares that our customers were paying before the authorization lapse.
And even if we are able to collect the tax all quarter long well collect what was the tax with that de facto fare increase it may still not cover all of the increase in fuel cost compared to a year ago.
So absolutely we're going to continue to stay the course.
Now there are media reports of course of how the airlines are going to help customers who have previously paid a tax collected by the airline remitted to the treasury.
And we're leading that effort to find a way to refund to our customers the tax that was collected but that is now no longer owed which is a different question than the one that you asked of course.
Yes okay.
No that's helpful.
And when we look at all the line items I mean obviously the passenger fare number is the big number but I think it also helps you on cargo and ancillary and fuel.
Is that fair? With the reauthorization? On the -- yes so the 7.5%? Yes.
Like in other words frequent flyer mile sales.
And I think there's a fuel benefit.
And I believe that there's also -- I think those are -- oh cargo as well.
Yes there's definitely excess checks on the cargo which during the period the taxes lapse is helpful.
So you're absolutely right.
And just one quick question on modeling.
When we look at the labor costs how should we bleed in the increase from moving AirTran to Southwest I guess contract is the way to say it? How do we think about kind of bleeding that in? Because it may very well come sooner than the revenue synergy? Well the -- I would again just encourage you to work -- you may have already figured all this out Bill and maybe you're comfortable with that there are different ways to think about this.
But as compared to Southwest standalone unit cost structure a year ago adding AirTran isn't harmful at this stage.
In some ways it's helpful.
But it doesn't move the Southwest 2010 unit cost needle very much at least in my analysis.
That's the second quarter and that's the way to think about it going forward.
So you'll have to wait from -- for guidance from us about how labor negotiations go as to the timing of implementing Southwest pay rates within the AirTran entity.
And obviously any AirTran employee who migrates over to Southwest they're going to be at the Southwest pay rates.
And you'll need to obviously understand how that's going to go too.
So there really are 2 different pieces.
It won't start until 2012 and until we get all of the labor contracts negotiated we won't be able to provide you an answer there.
You make a good point about the mismatch in the timing.
I would just point out that we have other offsets within the AirTran cost structure to also help mitigate that.
So in other words we are not totally dependent upon revenue synergies to manage the change in cost within the AirTran unit.
We'll take your next question from Dan McKenzie with Rodman &amp; Renshaw.
LLC</strong> Gary I know you acknowledge that the quarter fell short of goals.
But if I could punctuate it a little differently when I look at Southwest as a stand-alone carrier forgetting about AirTran the 6.8% operating margin is Southwest's worst operating margin performance in roughly 2 decades if I am not mistaken.
Worse than the second quarter of 2009 when the global economy was coming unglued and I hate to say this but worse than United and Continental.
So looking ahead I appreciate the capacity trends that have been announced but what gives you the confidence the adjustments are adequate to help Southwest hit return objectives? And then I guess related to that do the adjustments factor in a recession? Well I'll just take it in reverse.
No we're not -- the discussion that we're having is not planning for a recession.
And so that would be plan B if you will.
Whether I'm confident that we'll be able to manage our way through higher -- really we're talking about higher fuel prices.
And that I think if you go back and match up the performance to the guidance that Laura and our team provided at the end of the first quarter we're in line with that guidance except for fuel costs.
So fuel cost is an important piece that we're going to have to manage here.
But I think you take the 3 to 4 strategic efforts that we have underway.
You add that to not really add it but then you just focus on the opportunities that we believe that we have within the capacity optimization to drive unit revenues and I think we're very confident.
I think the big question is if you set a recession risk aside it continues to be at what fuel price? And we keep chasing the target up.
And we're concerned about that.
So I think that that certainly suggest that we need to be very mindful of any fleet or capacity increases at this point in time.
LLC</strong> No I appreciate that.
And if I could just come back a little bit differently here kind of on the same theme and this is a question I know I've asked in the past but taking fuel into consideration taking the economic backdrop into consideration is it necessary to manage the carrier perhaps even more conservatively? So I guess does Southwest instead need to really target a 20% return on invested capital and of course continue managing the Street to 15% as you've been doing so that when fuel spikes or we hit demand softness there is still a chance of hitting that 15% goal? Well our cost of capital I think is well below 15% first out.
I think -- what I've asked our team to do is -- let's get to our cost of capital first then we'll get to 15% second.
And then I think we can make some good judgments about how we want to invest in the business from that point forward.
But it's been a long drought Dan.
There's no question about it.
And I think Laura made the case very clearly that the crack spreads have sort of added insult to injury here with fuel costs.
So energy prices well I think we were planning on a $90 crude oil mas o menos for 2011.
And effectively it's been closer to $120 here recently with the Brent prices.
So it is obvious that we're not covering that kind of a fuel price yet and we're determined to do that.
Now you look at the 4 initiatives that we have including AirTran and they're in the aggregate worth over $1 billion.
I think the other thing that we're going to need to do in addition to those and managing the capacity here more aggressively is we're just going to have to attack our cost inflation much more aggressively.
The focus for the last 5 years starting with me has been on investing in and improving the customer experience to drive more revenues.
And we're going to have to gradually turn our sights here much more aggressively to optimizing our cost structure.
It's tough to do both simultaneously.
Everybody at Southwest Airlines is working very very hard with a lot of construction underway.
And we're very very mindful of that.
But at the end of the day we need to make our -- hit our return targets.
And well they're not targets they're requirements.
We've got to do it and I'm confident that we will.
We'll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore Partners.
Just wondering if you can compare the flat capacity outlook for 2012 or I guess flat to down? How does that compare versus your prior plan? I think we were looking more towards 2013.
But I think we're going to be down.
Bob what do you think? 3 or 4 percentage points compared to what was available for 2012 capacity wise? Yes.
Yes we were looking in the 4% range and now it's flat to maybe even slightly down.
Right.
Okay.
And then can you give us any sense for growth between the 2 entities how that would split out? I don't think we're thinking about it that way anymore.
We probably can.
But one headline is just to remember that once we get into a conversion process we're going to have to take equipment out of AirTran to remodel it.
So the AirTran capacity is -- and it's converting at the same time.
So it's going to be coming -- But we're not going to be putting any more airplanes into AirTran.
We'll be pulling airplanes out of AirTran beginning in the first quarter.
Right.
Yes.
So if you think about it just -- we're going to probably run 3 to 4 conversion lines at the time is kind of the current plan.
And just that on its own takes probably 3% of AirTran available capacity out just for conversion lines.
So we have a hard -- in other words Duane when you ask the question that way we're not -- it's hard for us to think that way because AirTran will -- it's going to be shrinking.
It will be shrinking and we don't quite know yet exactly how aggressively.
But it'll be numbers of airplanes per month once we get it up and running after SOC.
Yes.
Duane I think the best way going forward really is to think about everything on a combined basis.
That's just the way we'll be talking about it in planning.
Okay.
And then when do you expect Southwest metal to show up in Atlanta? Stay tuned.
We'll take our next question from Gary Chase with Barclays Capital.
Just a couple of quick ones.
From what you're describing in the revenue environment it would sound like you hit a little bit of a hiccup in July at least relative to some others that we've heard from.
And I understand with all the adjustments and the combinations and so on it's kind of hard to read.
Wondered if that is accurate and what your perspective is on kind of getting things back on track? And when you said that you thought July -- or excuse me August and September would be more normal sequentially was that with a July that you said was off? Or more normal with like a June? I think that's the new normal.
So it's June.
June was a little off trend and then July was off trend yet again.
So I think that you asked a very fair question.
I don't know that we're certain that we know the answer to that yet.
Look at our revenue performance over a longer period of time and it's very strong.
Some of it could simply be year-over-year comps.
And of course I know you know the numbers.
But our 2010 performance was off the chart.
So if you're looking at it that way I don't think that that will draw the best conclusion.
On the other hand if we're all looking at each other as compared to how we did in June I think that's a pretty fair way to compare us.
And I think we've got a little work to do ourselves before we draw any conclusions there.
We have obvious things to explore how our new -- with respect to new markets and new capacity that's been deployed.
How are they performing and what our expectations in the near-term? We'll look at pricing actions that we've taken sale activity and just basic revenue management which is never basic is the problem.
It's easy to say and hard to do.
But we'll be doing all of those things.
In the meantime though we have some -- from a revenue management or a profit management performance we have some "no regret" moves with capacity which those are the ones that I referred to earlier where we're going to -- AirTran is going to discontinue service to some cities and then Southwest has discontinued some nonstop city pairs.
And there will be more I'm afraid.
With energy prices continuing to be high we'll probably have to continue to aggressively optimize the flight schedule.
The great opportunity being of course where we take AirTran schedule and convert it into Southwest.
I can assure you it won't look the same.
It's going to be different.
And that'll -- if we've optimized Southwest over the last year it'll be a super optimization effort that will take place there.
And I guess that kind of leads into or is a good segue into what I also wanted to ask.
At least as I understood AirTran was very fuel sensitive.
And I know right now you are operating AirTran largely as it was for the time being.
I fully appreciate that's going to change dramatically in the near future.
But I am wondering if maybe these adjustments and the capacity reductions that you are thinking are going to be disproportionately skewed towards that part of the network for the reasons that I was describing? Or you could draw...
Yes I could say the same thing.
I think that first of all the AirTran route system underperforms the Southwest route system.
And there's a mix of traffic there's connections there are small cities there are subsidies there's a whole bunch of things that are very different than the Southwest route system.
And we will want to -- we have ideas and obviously the very talented former AirTran management we have under contract and consulting agreements.
And we'll want to work closely with them and get their views.
But the point is we see some significant opportunities to improve the unit revenue performance of that entity.
Okay.
And then just one quick cleanup.
Is SOC the earliest that you could see the labor cost change that somebody was asking about a little earlier Bob? Could it possibly happen before that? Well I think it'll be a -- yes I would separate them.
SOC is the point at which we have the ability that under one single operating certificate to begin to move the aircraft move the crews and begin to really push forward on the integration of the operation.
I would separate the work on seniority list integration and then whatever happens to the timing and wages from that.
So I think the answer's no.
They're not related.
Okay.
They're not relating.
Gary the only thing that -- and I agree with everything Bob said.
We'll be moving people from AirTran into Southwest.
Laura and her department as an example has already done that in finance.
So there are exceptions to that general rule that Bob mentioned.
But by and large in the operating groups yes the contract folks they're going to come with the airplanes once they're paid in the Southwest livery unless we negotiate something different which would logically be after SOC their pay wouldn't change until they're a Southwest employee.
We'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> So completely off-topic can you talk about your experience so far in Newark which I think is a new hub or a new city for you? Yes our experience there has been good.
We're a little fish in a big pond there and mostly driving our business from our -- the destination markets.
We're looking to drive most of our business right now looking to Newark as a destination maybe as a little bit clearer way to say that.
And that's not at all surprising to us and certainly what our expectation is.
Load factors are solid.
It didn't start off really hot it is a contrast of the presence that we have in South Carolina.
It started off like gangbusters.
So it's a little -- it takes a little bit more effort to get established and create awareness but I feel like that's been done.
Newark it is a tough environment to operate in.
There is no question about that.
We went in with our eyes wide open and we're operating a schedule that is pretty modest.
And I think that that makes sense.
It is one of the most congested airports in the country.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just with respect to the going forward how we should kind of think about the announcements that you've made with respect to pulling out of a number of cities.
I noticed that you are leaving a number of markets for example Philadelphia Pittsburgh.
I mean is that -- I thought that was kind of a big market for you? And now it looks like you are leaving it.
So could you just talk about what's going on maybe in Philadelphia within the context of everything else? Maybe your Philadelphia Baltimore too much capacity too close together? You bet.
I'd just take it in reverse.
No I don't think there's any meaningful interplay between Philly and Baltimore that is worrisome to us.
I think Philly Pittsburgh -- I'll just admit to you that's personally a disappointment for me.
That's a classic short-haul market.
It is extraordinarily weak.
And it was not big for us by the way.
We started out with 8 daily departures there and it never "took off." Remember we opened Pittsburgh in '05 Philly in '04.
We went to 6 daily departures and we were down to just 4 dailies.
And even -- we couldn't even make that work.
So the demand across the country and many short-haul markets is very weak compared to what it was even in the 1990s.
So it's actually not atypical.
I'd love to be in the market but again we just couldn't make it work.
There's just not enough demand there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I was actually wondering about that.
Since the past 10 years have gone by and the way things have changed in the industry with security blah blah blah I kind of wondered if short-haul traffic was actually suffering significantly more than long-haul.
So it seems like you're confirming that.
That is a fact.
And even if you look at a longer time horizon than a decade even 20 years you know well the cycles and the effect especially on business travel.
But typically post recession those markets rebound.
And many short-haul markets did not rebound after the 2001 recession which is obviously compounded by 9/11.
A lot of theories on why and I don't need to speculate here on why that might be.
But we have tried to mitigate that risk by diversifying our route structure.
And of course you've seen us fly longer and longer over the last 10 years.
And we've also facilitated more connecting opportunities which has worked out handsomely for us as well.
But those are some of the business reasons that we've done that.
You look -- Interestingly enough when you look at -- nobody really asked the question but since I'm talking I'll go ahead and share this with you all.
When you look at the current performance in the second quarter our short-haul market's revenue performance is very strong intra-Cal intra-Texas so I wouldn't extrapolate our Pittsburgh Philly report too much because we still have a dominant share of our flights are in short-haul markets and obviously they produced a very significant profit for us.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just on your advertising I noticed that you have gone to this frequent flyer redemption program the Red Tape ads.
That's what I see a lot of and I don't see the Bags Fly Free ads.
Is that a seasonal ad campaign? Or are you thinking about checked bags differently? And that is my last question.
Yes Bags Fly Free will definitely continue.
So there is no intent to begin to message differently on Bags Fly Free just to make that clear.
We're very committed to Bags Fly Free because it works.
And it generates a lot of profits for us with that approach.
We have an all-new program in terms of the Rapid Rewards and so had agreed that we were going to put a lot of advertising muscle behind that.
And as Laura reported earlier we think it's just working magnificently.
The membership increases are off the chart as are other revenues the fair premium we get from our frequent flyers and on and on and on.
I'm kind of shuddered to think what the revenues might be without some of that boost quite frankly.
So that's all that is.
And we've run those ads for quite some time now and you can -- I'll give you a little wink and you'll be able to look forward to some new stuff coming pretty soon so.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our final question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Just 2 quick ones here.
Laura you've provided the ticket tax piece I think for the first couple weeks and I missed the number.
Did that include -- was that just the passenger piece? Or did that include all of the various taxes that did lapse with the absence of the FAA reauthorization? Yes.
So Mike it was really on the passenger side.
But you should really think of that as the majority of it.
The other items that you're talking about are not as material.
But it was really for the 10-day period from July 23 through the 1st the impact of the fare increase we took for both Southwest and AirTran was about $36 million in ticket sales during that 10-day period.
Okay good.
And then just my second question Gary you made the point earlier that you sort of felt like that maybe fares have been pushed as far as you thought they were given the backdrop.
And kind of in the context of that we did have -- about a month ago there was a broad fare increase and it looked like everybody was on board including yourselves and AirTran although you quickly backtracked.
And I think it was within a day and there was a view that one day arguably is not enough to assess whether something sticks or not.
And I'm just curious if you can at least give some color on that? I mean was that indicative of maybe what you think you're seeing? That maybe you're seeing pushback quickly? Anything you could say on that would be great.
Mike I'm not sure I can say a lot.
With respect to the -- just sort of the drama of that one I don't recall anything like you're describing.
I'm not saying it didn't happen that way.
But in other words what I am comfortable in sharing is we didn't put a fare increase out and then change our minds.
So I don't mind telling you that.
We did not do that.
What we did and I'm not sure -- of course fares change so much.
But with respect to -- I don't know that I'm comfortable talking about our philosophy or what we might do next other than what we've already said which is we do sense that there are problems with the economy.
Common sense would tell us that that might have some impact on business travel.
We know that we have the majority of our traffic flying for personal reasons and more consumer-oriented when we all know that they're price-sensitive.
And it just feels like -- we know we've been -- and finally we know that we've been aggressive this year in moving fares up.
Now having said all of that that clearly that creates an image that we're not really bullish about the demand right now.
And that's why we have acknowledged that we'll be aggressively addressing capacity.
Having said all of that that doesn't necessarily mean that we have perfectly managed our fares.
And it doesn't mean that we could not have had higher fares in certain ways or certain days or with various fare sales or what not.
And we'll be reviewing all of that as we always do.
But no I think it -- my way of saying this and I think that we're very consistent with the industry personally and very consistent with what we're seeing and hearing from other businesses is that we've been able to grow our revenues aggressively post recession but that the rate of growth is slowing.
And that slowing we began to see signs of that in the second quarter.
And it seems to me that that slowing rate of growth is continuing here into the third quarter.
It's not saying that we have a weak revenue environment.
It's not saying that it is soft.
It's not saying that it's getting worse.
It's just that the rate of improvement is slowing.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over for any additional or closing remarks.
We just like to thank everybody for listening in this morning.
Marcy and her team will be available as usual for any follow-up questions.
Thank you all.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Ginger Hardage Senior Vice President Culture and Communications.
Great thank you so much and we welcome our media folks.
I know many of you have been on the call the entire time.
Now is a great opportunity to queue up and we'll get ready to answer your questions right away.
So Tom do you mind refreshing everyone on those procedures? Yes ma'am.
Good day and welcome to the Southwest Airlines' Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter 2011 conference call.
Joining me on the call today is Gary Kelly Southwest Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; and Laura Wright Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will begin with opening comments from Gary followed by Laura providing a review of our third quarter results and current outlook and then Bob will discuss our progress on the AirTran integration.
This morning's release includes Southwest's third quarter 2011 consolidated results which include AirTran's results for the full quarter.
Southwest year-to-date 2011 consolidated results include AirTran's results since the May 2 acquisition date.
Prior-year results do not include AirTran.
However in order to provide what we believe to be a more meaningful year-over-year comparison on today's call we will also be discussing specified results on a combined basis.
Combined results is the sum of Southwest and AirTran standalone results for all periods prior to the acquisition without any retrospect application of purchase accounting.
In addition outlook commentary will be provided on a combined basis as compared to combined prior-year results unless otherwise noted.
We provided supplemental financial information on a combined basis for year-to-date 2011 and for prior-year results in this morning's press release along with related reconciliations.
Before we get started please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
This call will also include references to results excluding special items or non-GAAP results.
Please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And now I'll turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Well thank you very much Marcy and thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
We had $122 million third quarter profit excluding special items.
That's $0.15 a share $0.01 better than the Wall Street estimates.
And of course that's very satisfactory.
However the results are 37% below last year's third quarter and that's not satisfactory.
But I am very proud of our people.
The challenges to earnings are cost related and especially fuel cost they were up 33.8% on a per gallon basis compared to last year.
And were it not for that our earnings would've been outstanding excluding items.
Our people deserve a lot of praise because we had a stellar revenue performance.
We had record load factors record yields record revenues.
We had a All-New Rapid Rewards program that was a very significant contributor and we also had much improved operations performance.
All of that was accompanied by very strong customer satisfaction ratings.
Of course our GAAP results include a markdown on a minor portion of our fuel hedge portfolio and that's because of the swoon that occurred in energy prices following the U.S.
government debt crisis in August.
Since the end of the quarter by the way prices have increased and that markdown has essentially reversed itself.
So the accounting is complex.
It is overly complex.
In my opinion it's confusing.
So we along with Wall Street count all of our portfolio when the hedges actually settle.
So speaking of hedging we have reduced our hedging portfolio over the next several months to I would call actively manage what we believe will be a lower-price environment.
We have significant hedges in place for second half 2012 all the way through 2014 and somewhat into 2015.
And that of course is to protect against a surge in prices.
In our view the fundamentals suggest that there is significant upside price risk from where we are today.
All of that assumes no slowdown in growth here in the United States and especially in Asia.
I would like to highlight just a couple of things for the third quarter just to make sure that you are aware.
First of all we had a very strong revenue performance.
We saw no weakening in overall demand.
And I think perhaps more importantly we saw no softening in business travel.
So we've had very stable business travel trends since the spring.
We had a very strong performance of our only Rapid Rewards program and it's the second full quarter results.
And across the board we saw very strong metrics.
Our membership numbers were up significantly up almost 50% compared to last year.
The flight activity from our more mature members was up more than system activity.
We saw the premium in fares paid by Rapid Rewards members increase.
We saw the number of members applying for credit cards increase.
The credit card activity increase.
Other related partner revenue growth was up more than expected.
And then we had a very very healthy amount of revenue associated with the sale of points mainly for future revenue recognition.
But very very pleased with the results of the program.
We think that we've got the best program in the industry.
And certainly believe it's a bold move but a big improvement over our Rapid Rewards program of the past.
Secondly we had significant progress with the AirTran integration.
Planning continues.
And importantly a lot of work has been completed in terms of reaching labor agreements with our pilots.
So the Southwest pilots and the AirTran pilots each have votes underway.
We're working with the FAA of course to achieve a single operating certificate.
A lot of technology construction is underway.
A lot of preparation is in place to begin our aircraft conversion in the first half of next year.
And we also have been preparing our flight schedules in terms of optimizing Southwest and AirTran flying activity and also preparing to connect the 2 and convert airports next year.
To proceed with the integration next year that assumes that everything is ready.
That assumes that we do have the single operating certificate that we do have labor agreements in place.
And obviously that is our focus and will continue to be here.
In the meantime the AirTran business has been very solid.
You have some supporting schedules on the press release to give you some indication on how they performed.
But if you look at their individual unit revenue performance compared to Southwest Airlines it's actually better than Southwest.
So my hats off to the prior AirTran leadership group.
I think they handed off a very good business.
And I'm very pleased to them.
And in turn I'm very appreciative of what Bob Jordan and his AirTran leadership team have done.
So we have a very solid business in place there until we can get it integrated.
Finally we've had substantial progress made on bringing a new fleet type into Southwest Airlines in March of next year which is the 737-800.
We're very excited about that.
It brings some enhanced economics especially on long-haul routes that again we're expecting to bring that online in March.
And also we'll come with the new Boeing Sky Interior which is very exciting for us.
It is a very nice upgrade.
In fact we are looking at that to determine whether we want to utilize that interior on the rest of our fleet.
In terms of the outlook for Southwest at least what we can see the revenue environment continues to be strong and stable.
The cost outlook as we provided in the press release we're expecting some inflation in our non-fuel cost but nothing extraordinary.
We're of course keeping a very close eye on fuel.
And I know Laura will provide a lot of detail on fuel.
I think in terms of the macro environment we're cautious like everybody else.
But as an editorial comment like almost every other business leader I talk to people say "Hey my business is good." Not sure what's going on with the next guy but at least we're seeing the same thing here at Southwest.
Our business is quite good.
Nonetheless we're going to plan very cautiously.
And of course we're not hitting our profit targets because of high fuel costs yet.
So we'll continue to plan for our fleet in 2012 as well as flat to down available seat miles.
But aside from that near-term planning we are definitely investing in Southwest and preparing Southwest for significant future route and fleet growth opportunities.
And sort of well underway on a 5-year plan and I'm very very pleased with the progress so far.
So with that overview Laura I'd like to turn it over to you to take us through the quarter.
Thank you Gary and good morning or afternoon for some of you.
Including net unfavorable special items totaling $262 million we reported a GAAP third quarter net loss of $140 million.
Excluding special items we reported earnings of $122 million or $0.15 per diluted share.
This exceeded Wall Street's expectations by $0.01.
The special items this quarter primarily consisted of a $239 million net related to noncash hedging losses primarily related to reduction in the quarter-end valuation of our 2012 through 2015 hedged portfolio.
At the end of the third quarter future period hedges that were deemed ineffective or not eligible for hedge accounting resulted in a $227 million net markdown that is recorded in other gains and losses.
This markdown is a noncash unrealized item in our third quarter.
We believe it's more meaningful to report our economic quarterly results accounting for all of our hedges consistently over time.
Our economic earnings or earnings excluding special items do not exclude the impact of fuel hedging.
They reflect what we actually paid for each period fuel consumption inclusive of the realized hedging gains or losses on that period hedges.
With the current market volatility the valuation of our hedged portfolio continues to fluctuate.
At September 30 the market value of our hedged portfolio was a liability of approximately $662 million.
As Gary mentioned with the rise in fuel prices since the end of the quarter our portfolio value just as of Monday this week was a liability of approximately $314 million so we had a $350 million recapture value in 17 days.
Other third quarter special items included $14 million net of taxes in AirTran integration costs primarily for consulting fees and facility transition costs as well as $9 million in net impairment costs related to our decision to discontinue the RNP program on our 737 classic fleets.
Again as Gary mentioned we're not satisfied with the year-over-year decline in our third quarter earnings excluding special items.
But given the high fuel prices we experienced our third quarter results were solid and they were driven once again by a very strong revenue performance.
We had record operating revenues of $4.3 billion which was up 35% from last year.
And we set a number of third quarter revenue records including passenger revenues of $4 billion a load factor of 82% record passenger yield record passenger unit revenue and total unit revenues and record number of in-plane passengers and traffic.
My kudos to our revenue management team for these tremendous results.
Our passenger revenues grew by 980 million or 32% from last year's 3 billion Southwest-only results.
2/3 of the growth was attributable to AirTran's revenues that were included in third quarter of this year and the remaining 325 million was due to organic growth at Southwest.
On a combined basis our passenger unit revenues grew 6.4% versus last year and our total unit revenues grew 6.7%.
In July our combined PRASM was up 1% to 2%.
In August our combined PRASM was up 6%.
And in September we were up 12% to 13% boosted by strength in month-end close in bookings.
Our third quarter revenues did include $44 million of the $57 million for fare increases that we realized during the period that the ticket tax lapsed.
For the fourth quarter the benefit for the ticket tax lapsed is approximately $9 million and we expect that to be relatively even each month throughout the quarter.
Our average fares on a combined basis grew 10.4%.
And as you well know we've taken 10 fare increases since the third quarter of last year including a system-wide increase taken just yesterday.
That's aggressive yet it's necessary in response to the surge in fuel prices.
Our mix of full-fare passengers for the quarter was 17%.
That stands about 2 points from second quarter and 1 point from 3Q last year.
At which time our full-fare mix since our historical highs has been impacted over time by the significant growth in our passengers and our load factors coupled with a change in customer both consumer and business booking behavior and isn't necessarily indicative of business travel demand.
In fact our corporate travel trends during the quarter were stable.
Our Business Select product had another strong performance with $22 million in incremental revenues.
And our bookings thus far in October looks strong.
However with our short booking curve we don't have much insight into winter bookings.
Our aggressive fare sale activity recently is really a function of revenue management and not any strong indication that our booking trends are being impacted by the current economic uncertainty.
And based on the current revenue and booking trends that we see we expect that our October passenger unit revenues will increase in the mid-single digit compared to the combined October 2010 PRASM.
Our third quarter freight revenues were $35 million.
That was up 12.9% versus last year slightly ahead of our guidance.
We currently expect our fourth quarter 2011 freight revenues to be comparable to third quarter's $35 million.
We also had a strong third quarter other revenue performance of $262 million.
Our other revenues were up $39 million versus last year's combined results of $223 million.
The increase was largely due to growth in our business partner revenues which were up $13 million from the previous year as well as EarlyBird Check-in which grew $8 million from last year to $37 million in total.
Year-to-date our EarlyBird revenues totaled $106 million exceeding our $100 million annual target with one quarter to go.
We're currently expecting that our fourth quarter 2011 other revenues will increase from fourth quarter 2010's combined $236 million likely in the mid to high single digit at percentage change.
I'd like to spend a few minutes touting the success of our All-New Rapid Rewards program.
As you all know the benefits of this program are reflected in both passenger revenues and other revenues on our income statement.
I just mentioned a $13 million increase in the quarter in our other revenue line for business partner income.
In addition we're estimating that the increase in passenger revenue which was attributable to the growth that Gary talked about in terms of the increased O&amp;Ds and fare differentials by our members we're estimating that added $55 million to passenger revenues in the third quarter.
Although we haven't recognized as revenues in the quarter the cash sales from points that we sell to our business partners increased by over $50 million in the third quarter versus 3Q 2010.
The majority of this revenue is deferred and will be recognized into passenger revenue in the future as flights occur.
So so far the results that we've seen since our March 1 launch and clearly in the third quarter fortified our confidence that our All-New Rapid Rewards program will generate the hundreds of millions of incremental revenue and other revenues that we have targeted by 2014.
Turning to costs.
On a combined basis our third quarter operating expenses excluding special items increased approximately 18% or $600 year-over-year largely due to a 37% increase in economic fuel costs per gallon.
On a unit basis they were up 12.6%.
Our third quarter economic fuel costs per gallon including fuel taxes was $3.18 which was better than our guidance.
And that was due primarily to a $20 million refund of fuel sales taxes that were received late in the third quarter accounting for a $0.04 per gallon savings.
Our actual unfavorable tax settlements on our third quarter hedges which are included in our earnings excluding special items were $13 million or $0.02 a gallon as expected.
If you go back to the hedges that we -- legacy hedges that we terminated in late 2008 we came into the third quarter with hedging loan losses of about $52 million.
During the quarter those were offset by hedging gains for the hedges that we put in place since then of $39 million.
So in a sense we reduced an $0.11 per gallon hedging penalty from late '08 to '09 with $0.09 to gain on our new hedges for the net $0.02 hedging loss during the quarter.
For purposes of illustrating how significant the economic fuel price increase was for us in the third quarter if we would have paid the third quarter 2010 economic fuel price of $2.38 per gallon last quarter versus the $3.18 that we paid this year our economic fuel expense in the third quarter would have been approximately $400 million lower.
So turning to fuel.
In regards to our fourth quarter hedges we did report in mid-September that we had essentially restructured our fourth quarter fuel hedges to significantly reduce the percentage hedge as well as to restructure the remaining protection at catastrophic levels in excess of $100.
Although our fundamental philosophy has not changed with respect to protecting our cost structure against catastrophic price increases with the current worldwide economic outlook and weak demand in the U.S.
and Europe we don't believe it's time to be long in energy in the near term.
So in addition to restructuring the fourth quarter hedges we did also recently restructure our first quarter 2012 hedges in the same fashion to reduce the percentage of consumption hedged as well as to restructure the remaining protection at catastrophic levels varying above $100.
With this hedge restructuring we eliminated the vast majority of our fourth quarter full exposure and we significantly reduced our first quarter 2012  for exposure also.
As a result the estimated hedge penalty for the fourth quarter again based on the October 17's forward curve is at around $0.11 a gallon.
And that basically represents the locked-in losses from the legacy hedges on that late back to '08.
The estimated hedge penalty first quarter '12 again based on the 1017 curve it's about $0.08 a gallon which again relates to the 2008 hedges.
These adjustments that we made to our hedged portfolio did enable us to reduce our premium expense in the fourth quarter by $17 million to an estimated premium expense of $14 million.
That reduction of premium expense is roughly equivalent to that $0.04 a gallon.
And for the first quarter the adjustments have enabled us to reduce our first quarter '12 premiums to $6 million which is a $16 million reduction from previous forecast.
So the end result for what we did in 4Q and late '12 was essentially a swap and benefit coming out of fuel and oil expense and into lower premium costs which are recorded below the line in other gains and losses.
The legacy hedged portfolio from 2008 as we've outlined before will continue to generate some level of hedging penalty each quarter through 2013.
However our hedging portfolio that we have built since 2008 has the ability to provide gains to help offset these losses in the right market conditions.
Based on the October 17 forward curve and our existing fuel hedge positions we're estimating our fourth quarter fuel costs including taxes to be approximately $3.30 per gallon.
That includes the $0.11 hedge penalty I discussed as well as fuel taxes of approximately $0.13 a gallon.
Looking at the forward curve as of October 17.
Fourth quarter WTI crude prices are expected to average around $86 a barrel.
Using Monday's prices that's up about $10 a barrel since September 30.
But the real story regarding jet fuel prices once again is the refinery margins which have continued to price to a much higher Brent crude price based on worldwide demand.
Fourth quarter crack spreads are currently averaging around $39 a barrel compared to third quarter crack spreads of $35.70 compared to $10 the last year.
So just the difference in crack spreads in 3Q '11 versus '10 was about a $0.61 per gallon increase.
Turning to non-fuel cost on a combined basis.
Our third quarter operating expenses excluding fuel and special items increased 6.5%.
On a unit basis we were up 1.5%.
The primary non-fuel cost drivers on a combined basis were increases in our salaries wages and benefits and maintenance costs along with increases in our revenue-related costs of approximately $11 million due to the 11.3% increase in tax revenues.
To date -- or during the quarter we recognize approximately -- or I guess since the closing of AirTran on May 2 we've recognized approximately $30 million in cost synergies and that's primarily from finance contract renegotiations at more favorable Southwest rates.
On an annualized basis these synergies equate to about $60 million in annual cost synergies.
But of course we have a lot of efforts underway on more cost synergies that we expect to realize down the road.
Based on our current cost trends we're expecting our fourth quarter 2011 unit costs excluding fuel and special items to increase in the 2% range from fourth quarter 2010's combined $0.0772 primarily due to higher airport costs salaries and revenue-related expenses.
Our third quarter GAAP tax rate was approximately 38%.
And for the full year we're currently projecting an effective GAAP consolidated rate in the 40% to 45% range.
We ended the third quarter with $3.7 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments.
Cash balance as of close of business yesterday was $4.1 billion.
At 9:30 we also had cash -- deposits with our counterparties of $458 million.
As of yesterday those deposits were $304 million.
In addition we have $800 million credit facility that's fully undrawn and available.
Our leverage including our off-balance sheet leases remains at approximately 50%.
However we expect it to fall by year-end to the 45% to 50% range with planned debt repayments.
We generated almost $1 billion of cash flow from operations for the first 9 months of the year which is net of a $429 million increase in cash collateral posted.
Our capital expenditures were $276 million during the quarter $548 year-to-date.
And for the full year we're expecting our capital spending to be in the $800 million to $900 million range.
Although we're still doing planning for 2012 we're currently expecting our capital spending to be in the $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion range next year.
Our Board of Directors authorized a $500 million share repurchase program on August 5.
And during the quarter we repurchased approximately 175 million or approximately 21 million shares of Southwest stock at an average price of $8.27.
We have manageable scheduled debt maturities for the remainder of the year of approximately $447 million including the repayment of $400 million notes in December.
We also have debt obligations of approximately $560 million due in 2012 with $385 million due in March.
Finally let me finish with a quick fleet and capacity update.
We ended the quarter with 699 aircraft in our fleet.
This factored in 7 new -700 deliveries during the quarter from Boeing and 2 -300 retirements.
For the fourth quarter we have 3 more deliveries and 4 300 retirements.
That will put us in the fleet of 698 airplanes at year end.
For next year we currently plan to add 33 737-800s to our fleets.
We have a like amount of retirements planned if not more as we continue our classic fleet retirements.
On the capacity front we expect our fourth quarter ASMs to increase approximately 1% to 2% year-over-year.
That results in a full year 2011 capacity increase in the 4% to 5% range compared to last year.
In addition to our flat fleet plans for next year we continue to expect our 2012 combined capacity to be roughly flat or slightly down compared to combined 2011.
And again given the fragile economic environment and persistently high fuel prices we continue to cautiously manage our 2012 capacity plans.
And with that financial overview I will turn the call over to Bob Jordan for an AirTran integration update.
Well thank you Laura.
And thanks everyone for joining us.
We continue making great progress on integration planning and I'm really pleased to give you a status report today.
But I want to start by thanking the people of both Southwest and AirTran that continue working on integration on a daily basis.
They're doing a superb job and I'm very proud of them.
I also want to thank the people of AirTran for not losing focus despite all of the changes that are going on around them.
Since May they have continued to turn in excellent operational results including industry-leading baggage handling and I am just very proud of them.
I'll start with an update on our station transitions and in-sourcing.
Since May we have completed 17 station transitions.
That means that we have now co-located our gates ticket counters offices and operational areas in these airports and are basically now operating side by side.
And we have some important conversions coming up in November with Orlando Boston and Baltimore.
In 9 of the stations so far we have also taken the added step of in-sourcing.
In-sourcing means that Southwest employees are now providing the ground handling and ramp services for AirTran flights.
And despite the complexity of all that I'm really happy with the station transitions and the in-sourcing because they are both going very smoothly.
On the labor front.
Our pilot unions SWAPA and ALPA restate tentative agreement on seniority list integration and that has now been put to a ratification vote and that vote concludes on November 7.
This is a major accomplishment.
Integrating labor groups is not easy and both SWAPA and ALPA showed tremendous persistence in reaching a tentative agreement.
I believe this agreement is fair and equitable for both sides.
And ratifying a negotiated agreement of course avoids the uncertainty of the arbitration process and it gives to both groups ownership of the list.
I'm also proud of our flight attendant unions which are TW (sic) [TWU] and AfA.
They recently reached a process agreement for seniority list integration.
The process agreement is not an agreement on seniority but it does establish the ground rules that they will follow in order to reach seniority agreement.
It's a very important first step and it lays the foundation for engaging in a seniority list integration discussions.
And again I'm very proud of them.
On the headquarters front the vast majority of headquarters functions at AirTran had been transition to Dallas.
That includes finance marketing technology people revenue management and network planning to name a few.
I'm very pleased also that today approximately 2/3 of AirTran headquarters folks have accepted an offer to join the Southwest family.
And just overall we are making great progress bringing the 2 airline families together.
For example last month we held an employee celebration in Atlanta for the 2 companies and it was attended by over 4 000 people from both Southwest and AirTran.
Significant work also continues on track to receive a single operating certificate from the FAA in the first quarter of next year which would be less than a year after the close of the transaction.
As Laura mentioned we have realized $30 million in cost synergies today which we expect will produce over $60 million in annualized synergies.
While a significant revenue portion that synergies comes with the connecting of the networks which continues on track for the first half of 2012 there are very meaningful revenue synergy opportunities in the areas of schedule optimization revenue management combining our frequent flyer programs distribution and cargo to name just a few.
In the area of schedule optimization earlier this month we published our coordinated flight schedule for Southwest and AirTran through June 1 of 2012.
In addition to being coordinated that schedule also represents the first optimized AirTran schedule since the closing of our transaction that was optimized utilizing Southwest optimization technology.
And going forward all future schedules will be both coordinated and optimized as we work toward network activity and of course one fully integrated Southwest schedule.
We believe there are significant opportunities to continue optimizing our combined network which in turn creates significant revenue synergy opportunities.
And similarly to the network all of our revenue management activities pricing and marketing and advertising activities are now coordinated between the 2 airlines.
On the Southwest side we had some exciting news.
We announced our initial service into Atlanta launching February 12 of next year with 15 daily departures to 5 destinations.
And beginning March of 2012 that will increase to 17 weekday departures to 7 destinations by adding Phoenix and Las Vegas.
And AirTran will continue to maintain our 173 daily flights out of Atlanta.
During the third quarter we also announced our first step toward blending the frequent flyer programs by making top-tier members from both programs reciprocal in terms of benefits.
What that means is for example an AirTran elite member will now receive extra Rapid Rewards points priority boarding access to priority security lanes and more when flying on Southwest Airlines.
And on the flipside Southwest A list and A list preferred members flying on AirTran now receive free business class upgrades and no bag fees to name just a few.
So again in my mind just fantastic progress thus far on our integration plan.
Of courses it's all due to our people and to their daily commitment to the integration.
We've made really great strides and they should be very proud of the milestones that they did so far.
I am very proud of them.
I am very proud of their unwavering warrior spirits on both sides Southwest and AirTran.
And with that I will turn the call back over to the operator to provide instructions on queuing up for questions.
Tom? [Operator Instructions] We'll now begin our first question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess Laura with respect to your fuel hedge I think in the press release I think you said something about 450 some odd million that was on deposit with the counterparties related to the fuel hedging.
And then I think you talked about the movement in fuel over the last 17 days and how that liability changed.
I think you said something recapturing several hundred million.
And the numbers they seem pretty far apart.
Can you just reconcile the differences there? And then maybe it's a function of also the fact that you've changed your hedge position over the last several months? Mike let me make sure I understand your question.
You want me to reconcile the June 30 mark-to-market to the one that I referred to? Research Division</strong> Yes.
It just -- it seemed like with the movement in fuel that you would have actually gotten back more cash from your counterparties than -- I thought it was just over $100 million was the change over the last couple of weeks.
But it seemed like that with the movement it would have been greater than that.
But I may be doing my math wrong here.
I think you're right.
The cash flow as of yesterday was -- I think I said $304 million compared to say $458 million or $459 million.
So it's down about $150 million.
We have a lot -- we have more than one counterparty.
We have several parties that are in profit or asset or liability situation.
So it is a little more complex than just looking at the market value.
The other thing that we have Mike as you know is we have an aircraft collateral facility that we can use too.
And if you look at where we are we didn't choose to use the aircraft facility at September 30 just because of some of the economics.
With the earnings that we're realizing on our cash holdings aren't very high it made more sense to post cash.
Then there...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So at this point there's no aircraft being used as pledge against some of the fuel hedge positions? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then...
But we have the ability if we'd like to.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just my second question.
Gary I believe you had mentioned -- you had talked about how the unit revenue performance at AirTran was very good during the quarter.
I think you indicated that it had exceeded Southwest.
And I realized there's obviously different mix and gauge and the markets there or length of haul.
There's a lot of considerations here.
And I was just curious that over the last several months to some extent you've been able to run a little bit of a laboratory experiment here and I was watching the recent fare sale that you did where the base fares for AirTran and Southwest were similar in some of the markets that they fly head-to-head.
And I'm just curious on because they do offer different products what you've seen what sort of uptake from say someone who's flying in the front of the cabin versus someone who maybe chooses Southwest over AirTran in like the Baltimore Orlando market because they can fly -- they don't have to pay for bags.
What sort of data and maybe what best practices that you're -- and I realize it's still early but maybe some of initial read on people sort of moving between the 2 carriers in the same market? Well Mike I'm going to let Bob pitch in here.
He has some insights he wants to offer.
I don't -- to be perfectly honest with you I don't know that I have that much granularity into AirTran's business yet where I have that kind of a feel.
The macro trends at Southwest and AirTran over the last 4 to 5 years have just unfolded differently.
We were really accelerating our revenue growth dramatically in 2008 '09 '10 and we've sustained that in '11.
And they've been less robust.
So they've had somewhat easier comps.
Their capacity is probably up a little bit year-over-year if you just look at them as an entity.
So I don't think you've seen a lot of schedule changes and probably any schedule changes that Southwest has done with the AirTran entity.
That's probably fourth quarter and late -- if I remember right in fact I think it was a November 21 schedule that they had in place when we closed on May 2.
So really Southwest has had an impact on the schedule post-November 21 so really no impact yet.
But I think that they had some concerns early after May 2 about the sustainability of their frequent flyer membership and business travel.
And if you remember back in August we expressed some reservations ourselves about what was going on with business travel.
I think both airlines now in October looking back over this same time period I think we would both conclude that business travel has been very very steady.
I think long story short what we were -- so I'll just repeat what I said earlier what we were handed from the AirTran leadership was a very solid business.
We've seen the AirTran employees respond enthusiastically to the notion of being emerged into Southwest Airlines.
We've seen their operating performance sustained if not improved.
So we feel really good about that that separate operating entity.
But Mike I'm sorry any more depth there? I don't know what I could just offer.
Bob is there anything you would add? Well I would just echo some of the same things.
Of course we're watching what's happening with their business and their traffic and there's no erosion in their business that we can detect.
In fact the business looks pretty strong just like Southwest as Gary indicated.
There's no erosion of particular passenger groups or elites which is very meaningful.
In other words we are not losing their frequent flyers or losing their elite frequent flyers.
There's no reluctance to move to Southwest.
In fact the data and the anecdotes both would tell you that people are eager -- able to travel on Southwest -- current AirTran passengers are eager to travel on Southwest Airlines and be able to travel on Southwest.
And the first schedules where we've made meaningful changes in overlap markets that would really test that theory are still to come.
So those are schedules for early summer late summer.
But so far there's -- we've not detected any erosion in business performance or any reluctance in terms of passengers -- their customers to convert to Southwest Airlines.
We'll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Trahan.
I guess kind of a follow-up to Mike's question maybe a little more of philosophical level.
Now that -- maybe this is a question for Bob.
Now that you've gotten to look to see how AirTran's bag fees can actually benefit that operation they still outperformed on PRASM with bag fees largely in place.
Has it given you maybe pause to the strategy? Because when I look at taking out $200 million of AirTran revenue and AirTran made $39 million last year it just seems like such a big dis-synergy.
Have you maybe thought about the strategy a little bit differently given now that you've got to just sort of peel the onion to see how it works within AirTran's business? No.
I think if you look overall of course you've got to look at PRASM PRASM and fees and then RASM.
And so it's all of the components.
I think just overall we have tended to outperform them fairly significantly on a PRASM basis.
We've been fairly even on a RASM basis with fee.
So I think we have a lot of opportunity there to just shift the components of revenue.
Second a lot of this of course is about connecting the networks and driving additional traffic across the combined network that you just couldn't do today.
So whether that's boosting load factors or that's moving folks up the revenue management process and chain so to speak there's a lot of revenue potential there.
So I don't have concerns in terms of moving -- in terms of covering bag fee revenue with other revenue components.
And again when you say outperform their year-over-year growth is superior in the third quarter perhaps in large part because they underperformed a year ago or 2 years ago.
But if you look they lag Southwest margins which sort of sums all of this stuff up.
And the -- we see tangible opportunities to improve the AirTran route network number one; the mix of nonstop passengers number two.
And again it's our belief that the totality of the Southwest brand will also be a superior revenue producer as well.
And Hunter as you know our revenue synergies have always included the elimination of those fees.
So that's always been a part of our assumptions with our synergies.
Right.
A lot of answers.
But the last thing I would add is that the -- it's a little harder to prove from an analytic perspective.
But I think part of -- I think you're already seeing it.
So the lending of the Southwest brand to AirTran for example we have some distribution between the 2 websites in place already not connectivity but you can get to AirTran flights off of Southwest Airlines.
There are things going on that I think are providing an up draft to AirTran's performance already because of their connection to the Southwest brand.
So some of what you're seeing I believe is due in part to the fact that we're pulling the 2 brands together.
Okay.
And I guess just briefly in capacity with 33 aircrafts coming in obviously you've already engaged.
What is the sort of the most you can school up? Or I guess maybe upsize is what I'm wondering more so.
How much can you sort of grow if you really want to next year? And what sort of triggers are you looking for to actually maybe defer some of the retirements? Well that would have to be or probably the technique.
If we ask Laura to go get us airplanes I suppose she could do that.
It would just come at a cost.
So let's just assume that that is a modest number half a dozen airplanes potential there.
And then the other alternative would be to slowdown the retirements and what kind of flexibility I think we have there.
We have a ton of flexibility with the 33 retirements we own a good portion of them.
And certainly on the one that are leased I don't anticipate any of the last ones would have any problems wouldn't add with us extending and so we have a lot of flexibility.
It's just -- I think the fair question is the lead time and what would be the signs that force us to think about that option.
But lots of flexibility.
And I guess part of the retirement plan is set by trying to avoid major maintenance efforts.
So we would have to undertake those maintenance efforts and make that decision to keep those airplanes.
But long story short we have a lot of flexibility.
We'll take our next question from Bob McAdoo with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> There's a sentence in the press release "We expect to have the capability to connect the networks of both airlines in the first half of 2012." What does that mean? What's a -- when you start doing that what's a customer going to see as you start to connect these? What are they going to experience? What does that mean? So Bob I think if it were -- if AirTran or a different airline we would just say co-chair I don't -- co-chair means certain things to certain people.
But we'll be in a position in the first half next year where we can operationally co-chair between the 2 airlines.
So as you well understand they've got their own reservation systems and operation systems et cetera.
So we'll be able to publish in a co-chair-like fashion common itineraries where you have a Southwest leg and an AirTran leg.
We'll have it published with the Southwest code.
If you went to AirTran.com they would also have it published in an AirTran code.
And we would exchange -- just the classic thing we would exchange passengers.
We would exchange bags single itinerary one fare pretty straightforward stuff.
We don't have classic co-chair technology in our system.
Importantly neither does AirTran.
And so that's why we are leading you that way that we're constructing that technology to enable the exchange of passengers and bags and therefore expect that to be in place by first half next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> So maybe it'll operate kind of from the point of view what the customer experiences kind of like you used to have where you go from in my case Kansas City to Chicago to New York but the second leg was on ATA.
That kind of an experience? It is that exactly.
And different -- because AirTran is -- they're not ATA.
The technology that we used with ATA is not necessarily usable again with AirTran.
But in any event with our current reservations technology and theirs that has to be built and that construction is underway.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that'll be sometime in the first half? We're not giving you a definitive date because we're not confident enough to give you a pinpoint date yet.
We want it sooner than later.
And yes sir it should be first half.
Bob the only thing I was going to add is the advantage we have with AirTran versus ATA is AirTran and Southwest are one.
And so from a scheduling and their network and our network we're going to be able to build better connections and pricing.
So I think it'll even be superior to what we could do with ATA.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I would assume at that point if you decided -- I mean there's nothing that keeps you from deciding to hook a few more cities into Atlanta that maybe aren't into Atlanta or do some of those kinds of things as you move into the latter part of the first half as well? Yes we'll -- that's somewhat unrelated to the question but it's at least indirectly related.
But absolutely.
So I think Bob may have pointed this out with his AirTran report but AirTran does not currently serve Austin Texas.
And so one of the first cities that we're opening with Southwest Atlanta service is a nonstop to Atlanta.
So we'll have 2 daily roundtrips in that market on February 12.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then -- so then this new "connecting capability" would allow you to put obviously to sale Austin to a number of cities that you can't get to now in Southwest? Well yes I think that's fair.
Yes that's fair.
We'll take our next question from Gary Chase with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was racking my brain to try to see if I could ask a question that would get Laura to say ticket tax lapsed again.
That was pretty bad.
Research Division</strong> I just couldn't figure it out.
What I wanted to ask was just a couple of things about business travel.
Laura you give us that 17% full-fare mix.
I'm wondering if that was adjusted for AirTran which I don't think there was any airline in the country that had a full-fare mix as high as yours if you look back.
So is that adjusted for AirTran? And if not could you maybe give us a little flavor for what that might look like say heritage Southwest to Southwest? It was Southwest only Gary.
And I don't know if I have [indiscernible].
AirTran's full-fare mix for their network is very different than ours.
And it's about 3% in the quarter.
So I don't know that I can do the math in my head to tell you what the combined is.
But if you want to look at it on a relative basis that's where we were.
You're right that was Southwest itself compared to Southwest itself yes.
Research Division</strong> And what do you think is driving that? Is it the change in the way that you're pricing that has caused some trade-down out of that? I mean if you look way back you were in the 30s.
Ops hasn't been at those levels for quite some time? Or is it more about the drive you've had to get loads up and do a better job of filling the lower-fare buckets? I think it's many things Gary.
I mean Gary and Gary can join in too.
But certainly if you go back in history we just had a load factor in the mid-60s.
We're in 80.
And so you know that the incremental traffic is being driven by the discretionary travelers.
So some of that's arithmetic.
Certainly we've raised fares a lot.
And even in the old days when you raise fares you do see -- we've always seen full-fare go down.
So that's not surprising with the number of fare increases we've had.
And then finally bookings we have a lot of evidence that shows a lot of business travelers book in advance today.
So not everybody buys a full-fare last-minute ticket.
So I think there's a lot of pieces but what we still would like to do is check business travelers from a lot of other perspective our corporate sales just looking at the type of bookings.
And we come back before Friday.
So all of those other indications show that business travel has been pretty stable but we're probably seeing a shift of more of it into non-walk-up tickets.
The only things -- while Laura was talking I was trying to think here and the only things that I might add I don't think I can add much to what she's already nailed here but we used to be a short-haul network.
And the short-haul routes were business routes.
Now we have a lot of long-haul routes with low frequency.
And in some ways one could argue that they're more leisure oriented.
We might debate that a bit.
But in any event we definitely see a different full-fare mix on longs compared to the shorts.
I think the most compelling point Laura has already made which is the absolute number of full-fare passengers is closer to what you've seen historically.
It's just that we've got significantly higher load factors today.
And certainly over the last 5 years those have been driven more by connecting passengers being added on.
The other thing that's happened is we have added more precision you might say in our revenue management and more fare points.
And so there are relatively nondiscounted discount fares if you know what I mean.
So they may be less than a full-fare but they are higher than what you might have in your mind as a 3-week advance fares.
So that's different today versus years ago too.
But in fact we sort of chuckled about this.
We're probably the only airline that talks about full-fare mix.
And we sort of question the importance of it.
We pay attention to it but we look at our business in a lot different ways other than just fretting over the full-fare mix.
Research Division</strong> And just to go from 12 to 13 RASM growth in September to mid-singles in October is there just something that we don't -- I mean when you said things were -- the strength continues so something we don't understand about normal seasonality? Or was September just uniquely solid? Well I think that it may take us a while to funnel our knowledge to get to a more precise conclusion too.
But one thing we've introduced some new techniques along the way as you well know.
You can see the result if nothing else in our load factor over the last 4 years.
We have techniques that have been added on in the last 12 months that seem to be driving more business and available periods.
So one way of saying that is if you're already full in July this new technique that we're using to fill up airplanes may not add much.
But in a softer month like September we were pleasantly surprised at how good -- and that's why Laura specifically singled out Revenue Management because over time we can see the very significant benefits that some of the new techniques that they're using are bringing.
October is just -- it has less opportunity we think to fill in some of those gaps.
But it's all part of our argument to you that we're winning more share.
Bags Fly Free is a fundamental component of that.
We are smoothing out what we think as some of the seasonality in our business and those are the primary drivers that we're finding.
So we're having -- we think that now that we understand this better we'll be able to set some better expectations internally as well as with you all.
But we're giving you a very fair outlook for October obviously we're 20 days into it and know pretty much where we're going to be and feel like that is the explanation.
Yes.
And October is our toughest comp as a quarter as well.
But Gary's right September was extremely strong.
We're a bit off sequentially but not terribly.
So we think October is really a continuation of what we've seen in September.
And I'll just give a little commercial here for our Southwest revenue team overall.
We've made dramatic progress in 4 to 5 years' time.
But we know that we are lacking some tools that will bring more value.
And we're very excited about constructing those implementing those and just have a lot of confidence that they are going to bring very significant value over the next several years as we bring them online.
We'll take our next question from Kevin Crissey with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Decent time and we'll go back over the end of that.
You were talking about the tougher comp Laura.
I don't know if you've provided it.
Maybe you have and I've missed it.
The monthly kind of RASM numbers and stuff I just want to understand what capacity it looks like by month as we go forward here.
And then maybe what you -- how those comps progress? Yes.
So for 4Q October I think ASM is roughly about 4% on a combined basis.
And we had our October last year PRASM was up 12.5%.
And then November and December ASMs are going to be flat versus last year on a combined basis.
Last November PRASM was up 7%.
In December we were up 5%.
Research Division</strong> And those were all combined numbers? I believe they were yes.
Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> So importantly your comps? Okay.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
I thought that might be the case but I wasn't sure.
Maybe what -- you're talking about the impact of -- if you could talk about if there's any impact overall of maybe tighter credit conditions how that might favor you or disadvantage you to the extent that the banking lending is more difficult over time? From a competitive standpoint Kevin or...
Research Division</strong> Yes just in general what it means that you see German French banks maybe doing less lending or what it maybe means structurally if anything.
Maybe it has no impact on you guys.
Well certainly we've done a lot of -- we have a lot of good European bank partners but we've had so many access -- so much access to capital typically used.
But the U.S.
public debt market has been the vast majority of the financing that we've done.
So at this point based on what we know I'd say it's negligible.
And your financing requirements for next year are...
Are modest if any at all.
So that's...
And we'll take our next question from Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary there were some press reports recently about you suggesting there was a lot more revenue opportunity in Atlanta I think than you first perceived.
I don't believe you changed the full synergy numbers.
Correct me if that's wrong.
But the other question is is that how do you ensure that revenue opportunity you're addressing and you're seeing doesn't actually end up getting competed away? Because I think we see that time and time again.
So how are you thinking about how you're going to preserve that value for Southwest? So Bill I'm glad you mentioned that.
Yes I'd object to the characterization in that article.
So our best estimate interestingly enough has not changed.
And so we think that we're pretty neutral on the cost side.
We're seeing some successes as Laura reported on the cost side earlier.
Our view of the revenue synergies is still a future.
So we still have to realize those.
But we are constantly updating our projections there and feel pretty comfortable that the net of it is a $400 million improvement to the combined -- you have to combine AirTran into Southwest to realize that improvement but it would be coming from the AirTran component of the route structure.
So yes we're very comfortable with that.
Just doing math it would suggest that maybe the potential was higher than that and that was the point I was trying to make about the reasonableness that we could achieve $400 million.
The $400 million is ambitious and it's something that we think is doable.
So with respect to your second question it was -- is it really talking about the risk and integration that we execute? Is that really the...
Research Division</strong> I guess that we just see time and time again airlines end up competing away an awful lot of the revenue synergies or the total synergies that they sort of perceive and so it gets hard to tell where they are.
And look at the competitive industry so I think we all sort of understand that.
And I was just trying to figure out how you think about well this is how you're going to preserve it and not end up just competing it away.
And maybe that's the answer to win share? I don't know.
Well I think that -- how can I answer your question here.
I think that it's really -- so if you'll forgive me for perhaps stating the obvious.
Our earnings are not where they need to be.
The rest of the industry earnings have not been where they need to be forever.
So as we look out onto the fourth quarter as an example domestic capacity is coming down year-over-year.
Capacity in our markets is coming down.
And so if anything I would argue to you that the competitive environment actually supports us pursuing our strategic goals here over the next several years.
So we've committed to you all that we're determined to hit our strategic goals.
We all understand that other things happen whether it's higher fuel prices more or less competition but it seems to me that I could argue to you that the competitive environment is pretty good.
We had a very strong route network on a combined basis.
We have a number of opportunities to optimize the flight schedule which gives us just a ton of flexibility.
We're trying to build the airline such that we can grow it but we'll only grow it if the profits and the returns are there.
So that's -- I feel very confident about the synergies as long as we execute.
So I don't think the macro environment will work against us in this scenario.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
Gary you were vocal on one other thing in some of the media and that is just about all these proposals that keep coming back to tax airline tickets more.
And I don't know if look it's not going through yet but I look at this and I say this is potentially -- could transform your business model in a much more significant way because if you put on ticket taxes of that magnitude I don't know how the stimulation effect works anymore.
So is that too aggressive of an interpretation of what's being proposed here? Or how do you think about these taxes? Well it is -- well first of all we at Southwest are very supportive of the trade association the ATA's lead on this.
We are already overtaxed.
We are already overregulated which comes in at an enormous cost.
Every year we get more regulations.
And of course we've had to redirect technology resources this year to comply with yet another DOT regulation which is the so-called full-fare advertising rule.
That's just one example.
Then you layer on top of that taxes which have nothing to do with aviation.
Much of the proceeds of the taxes were proposed to go to the general fund to reduce the deficit.
So if we weren't paying our fair share I guess I might be more patriotic about that thought.
The idea is to make America more competitive so that America can grow its economy so that America can generate more jobs.
The way that we do that in the airline business is we keep costs low.
So we make more fares affordable for people so more people can afford to fly which clearly is what you are asking about.
Absolutely Bill if our costs go up fares will be higher.
More people will not fly will not travel.
There are 14 million jobs in travel and tourism.
There is an enormous opportunity to grow it.
And I guess the final argument I would make is that air travel in the United States is down compared to where it was a decade ago.
Think of how many jobs there would be if it was growing like it should have over the past decade.
So my focus is on creating jobs and certainly jobs at Southwest Airlines.
Are you a little overly dramatic? I think in relative terms that the departure tax Laura I think is about $140 million a year impact to Southwest Airlines in terms of the cost increase.
The tripling of the TSA fee would obviously be -- would be a lot more than that even.
But in fairness we're struggling with high fuel cost.
I think Laura a fuel bill is probably up.
If it was up $400 million in the third quarter just say it's up x4 it's up $1.6 billion.
Yes [indiscernible].
So is $140 million not important therefore? I think they actually makes it more important because we're already struggling with such high fuel costs that could go even higher.
And so yes we have an impassioned argument to not only not add more taxes but we need to relieve some of the burden on the industry so that we can have more people affording to fly.
And we'll go next to the Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked.
Just wondering if you could put some numbers to the competitive environment.
Specifically as you look at the world how do you see capacity down in the fourth quarter in your markets and relative to the third quarter? Duane give me just a minute and I'll get you that answer.
Do you have another question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was going to take a stab if you had any early thoughts on 2012 ex-fuel costs.
And then we've got potential cost synergies potential cost dis-synergies? I assume we should still be assuming dis-synergies in 2012 from a cost perspective.
So given flat capacity where do you see sort of cost inflation next year? Well it's a little early.
So we'll probably need to finish all of our planning for next year and making adjustments as we see that we need to.
I think there'll be some cost inflation next year but we're determined to keep it modest.
Yes.
Okay.
And I agree with Gary.
Preliminary 2012 cost inflation in most categories.
On the capacity front Duane in the fourth quarter total seats in our direct markets are expected to be down a little over 2% in the fourth quarter.
If you include indirect markets down 1.6%.
For the whole domestic markets seats are down 2%.
Compared to third quarter seats were up almost 2% in our direct market in the 3Q.
So there it's a favorable comparison from 3Q to 4Q.
And ladies and gentlemen we have time for one final question today.
And that question does come from Glenn Engel with BoA Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions please.
One CapEx can go over it again for 2011 and '12.
And two I'm pretty sure that that year that's coming to do in the next couple of quarters as pretty high costs.
So how much will end up producing your interest expense when you pay those both off? I'll answer the second question first.
So the $400 million that comes due at the end of December was 10.5%.
So that's $42 million Glenn.
And we get a full year of that next year.
The $385 million that comes due on March 1 I can't remember if it was at a 6% rate.
I'm trying to do it off of memory.
So roughly say $24 million on a full year basis but you've got 10 months of it.
So we've got some significant benefit coming next year on our -- below the line expenses -- reductions there.
And your first question I've already forgotten.
Research Division</strong> CapEx.
'11 and '12.
Oh yes yes.
So again we're still preliminary on our 2012 plan.
I think what I shared this morning was $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion is what we're currently expecting.
That does include some capital costs associated with aircraft conversions on the AirTran fleet.
But it's primarily the 28 new Boeing 737-800 deliveries as well as progress payments on our 2013 and beyond payments.
And this year is about 900? This year is in $800 million to $900 million range yes.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Marcy Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom.
As always Ryan and I are available after the call if you have any additional questions.
Thank you again for joining us and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Ginger Hardage Senior Vice President Culture and Communications.
Right.
Thanks Tom and thanks for everybody who's been on the call.
We know you have lots of questions.
So let's move right on to the media portion.
And if you would remind everyone of the technique to line up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin our first question from Terry Maxon with The Dallas Morning News.
Let me follow up on the question about co-chairing or about being able to interconnect.
Will this include the ability for Southwest passengers to connect on the international flights of AirTran? Yes absolutely.
So certainly not from Dallas Love Field because I think there's restriction on international service connecting or otherwise out of Love Field.
But any other Southwest city if you're connecting to AirTran to an international fight you can do that whenever you get this worked out? Gary you can do Love Field as well.
We just can't fly nonstop when the Wright Amendment is repealed or relaxed in 2014 but we can still have international itineraries at Love.
And we'll take our next question from Lori Ranson with Airline Business.
Yes.
I was just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on your evaluation of the Sky Interior.
It sounds like you might consider retrofitting your fleet with the new interior? Yes ma'am.
That is exactly correct.
We are very enthused about the Sky Interior.
It is -- we have a separate fleet type now in the 800.
So we do have a unique interior that we have purchased for it.
But it does allow us the opportunity to think about what elements of the Sky Interior we might want to consider for either prospective deliveries on the rest of our fleet like the -- with the 700s or even retrofitting.
So we have made some decisions there and are just not ready to share those yet.
But absolutely that -- I would concede that that has been a consideration.
And we'll go next to Andy Compart with Aviation Week.
Gary I just want to clear up some sort of seeing the mixed signals regarding the 717 early September.
Gary you were at the Boyd Group conference and you seem to suggest you might be able to get rid of some of them earlier than the leases expire by some discussions you were having with Boeing.
But then you had Laura speak at the Dahlman Rose conference and it seemed to suggest that wasn't in the cards.
So just trying to find out exactly what is the status with the 717? And is there any possibility of working out some deal before the leases start expiring? Well I will try to clear that up and Laura is sitting right here beside me.
If she disagrees she can clear it up further.
But no I think it's very straightforward.
We don't see a need to have a different airplane in our fleet like the 717 as compared to the 737.
Said a different way the 717 doesn't bring any unique capabilities for us that would justify having the ongoing complexity by having a second fleet type.
So that's just a fact.
Then the question becomes well what are we going to do about that? So I think that if we had an opportunity that was affordable for us to accelerate the retirement if you will of the 717s and replace them with 737s that would be fantastic.
And I think the point that Laura made was very pragmatic which is well that's all true.
But right now we don't have an alternative and they are under lease for quite some time.
So the odds are you're going to see those airplanes operated by Southwest for quite some time.
I don't see there's any confusion there at all.
But if in fact if she and I do find an opportunity to retire them early we'll give it a very good look because we would rather have the 737 just for the fleet commonality.
Yes and I think there's 88 of them.
So from a practical standpoint it's just -- it will take a while to do that so.
Right.
And the leases are 2018 and 2024 right their expiration? That's correct.
But are you talking to Boeing right now? Is there any indication you might have an option to get rid before? Absolutely.
We're talking to Boeing about a whole variety of things and that would be one.
But there's nothing for us to report to you that says that we have any different plan right now other than what you know that we've inherited from AirTran.
It's a good airplane.
There's nothing wrong with the airplane.
It's just as I said it just doesn't bring anything beyond what a 737 could do for us and especially in a higher fuel cost environment.
A lot's changed this year compared to where we hope to be in 2010 with fuel prices and that certainly has some bearing in the way we're thinking about utilizing the 717.
We'll take our next question from David Koenig with The Associated Press.
I have a question about demand and I guess fares.
And Laura touched on this a little bit at on the analyst section of the call.
But you've got this confusing situation now where you've both raised prices and have been running a fare sale this week.
And how should we think about that? Does that mean that you're seeing enough demand to raise prices for the peak weeks but you're worried about demand for the rest of the fall and winter or what? I don't think it's confusing.
Every year we raise fares.
And we try to do that at a -- in a frequent pace and at a modest rate.
And every year we also have sales.
So the -- so in other words there's nothing inconsistent with that.
We have an array of fares in our fare structure.
We have some customers who are extremely price sensitive and will only fly at a certain fare level and we want to get at least some of those folks on board our airplanes.
And we use that fare sales as a technique.
What is a little different in fairness to your question though right now is that we are -- it's probably a little out of our historic character to be launching a fare sale right now seasonally.
And that is simply and I think Laura tried to speak to this earlier the bookings that we have in place are strong.
But we've admitted that we're very cautious and we just don't want to take any chances in this macroeconomic environment and would rather err on the side of getting more bookings than less.
So it is a reflection of that nervousness if you will about the overall economy.
Again you look at our results we had very strong revenue results in the third quarter.
We are seeing a continuation of that thus far in October.
Bookings look strong.
So there's no sense that the economy is weakening by our business.
We're just not taking any chances.
And we have time for one more question and it is a follow-up question.
We'll take our last question from Terry Maxon with The Dallas Morning News.
What is your comments or discussions with Boeing on the 737 MAX? Do you have any in your order book yet? If we did you would know it pal.
But we are -- no.
So the straight answer is no.
We don't have any orders yet.
We are very desirous of the next-generation engine technology and therefore airplane technology.
We are absolutely talking to Boeing about that.
And we have been talking to Boeing as you know Terry for the past 6 years.
So we're right in the midst of -- because Boeing of course just made a decision late summer to go forward with the 737 MAX.
And so we are just now being briefed on what it does what it doesn't do and it's just too early to give you an answer on either our evaluation of that or what we might do.
Are you concerned that you will be too far back in line to get the 737 MAX behind other customers? No.
I absolutely not.
I would expect that we -- again this is a long many years' discussion that we have had with Boeing Company.
And I am sure that they will meet our needs with respect to delivery positions.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over for any additional or closing remarks.
Well great.
Thank you guys for being on the call today.
You know that if you need any additional follow-up to call (214) 792-4847 and we will get back to you.
Thanks so much for being on the call today.
Thank you Tom.
And that concludes the call.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Southwest Airlines Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter call.
Joining me on the call today is Gary Kelly Southwest's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; and Laura Wright Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will begin with opening comments from Gary followed by Laura providing us a review of our fourth quarter results and current outlook and then Bob providing an update on the AirTran integration.
As a quick reminder Southwest's full year 2011 consolidated results include AirTran's results since the May 2 acquisition date.
Prior-year consolidated results do not include AirTran.
However in order to provide what we believe to be more meaningful year-over-year comparisons on today's call we will also be discussing specified results on a combined basis.
Combined results is the sum of Southwest and AirTran's stand-alone results for all periods prior to the acquisition without any retrospective application of purchase accounting.
In addition outlook commentary will be provided on a combined basis as compared to combined prior-year results unless otherwise noted.
We provided supplemental financial information on a combined basis for full year 2011 and for prior-year results in this morning's press release along with related reconciliations.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current content expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
This call will also include references to results excluding special items or non-GAAP results.
Please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And now I'll turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thank you very much Marcy for that very thorough introduction and thank you all for joining us this morning.
We are obviously pleased to report a profit for the year that represents our 39th annual consecutive profit of $330 million $0.43 a share x items.
That's always a good thing in our tough business.
We are very pleased to report a fourth quarter profit of $66 million or $0.09 a share x items which is $0.01 better than Wall Street estimates.
I want to thank all of our employees.
2011 was a very historic year for Southwest Airlines and for the most part we accomplished what we set out to do and it's all due to their tremendous efforts.
So I want to thank them first and foremost.
We had an outstanding record revenue performance and it helped blunt the very significant rise in jet fuel prices 33% increase in jet fuel prices.
But so far at least our strong revenue momentum is continuing in the first quarter for the most part.
That was really the story all year long in 2011 very strong revenue growth but not quite sufficient to completely offset what ended up being about a $1.7 billion increase year-over-year in jet fuel costs.
So the resulting decline in earnings while it is explainable it's certainly not satisfactory.
Our plan for 2012 calls for a significant increase in revenues and profits and that assumes -- use that word that assumes that our revenue plans work and that we contain cost increases to manageable levels.
And in particular our outlook for fuel prices in 2012 is pretty benign always subject to change.
And that comes with a very quick caveat that we fully admit that energy prices are something we just can't predict.
We have no plans to grow the fleet and certainly until we hit our profit targets and certainly no plans to grow in 2012.
Our network plans in that respect are conservative and they're geared towards boosting our unit revenue performance.
Through August of this year Southwest has only one new city planned and that is Atlanta as everyone knows which will start service for Southwest Airlines at least next month.
And obviously that is an important first step of the AirTran integration.
AirTran will be closing cities this year that are not profitable.
And at least through August AirTran plans to add just 2 new cities and those are international Cabo San Lucas in Mexico City.
As I mentioned before we accomplished a great deal in 2011.
We launched our completely revamped All-New Rapid Rewards program.
It is off to a tremendous start and I think that we will begin to see very significant revenue benefits from that program here in 2012.
We opened up 3 new cities within the span of 2 weeks.
Of course we closed on our AirTran deal and then we ended the year with a very big deal with Boeing and GE.
For 2012 for many of you it may seem like it's old news but it's going to be a huge year for us.
First of all we want to continue our focus on the operation the quality of our operation and our customer service.
They are both performing at very high levels and again I'm very very proud of our people.
In terms of improvement we'll be focusing on improving our productivity improving our efficiency to blunt cost increases.
I already mentioned All-New Rapid Rewards will continue to focus on growing our membership and growing the revenue per member in that program.
But in terms of new business we're planning to receive our single operating certificate here in the first quarter.
And at that point the real integration of AirTran the visible integration of AirTran can begin so that will be a lot of work for us this year to begin the conversion of aircraft and airports and employees from AirTran into Southwest Airlines.
That all implies that we'll have big schedule changes occurring within the AirTran unit throughout the year.
Many of those again are already published after August.
Of course we're launching the 737-800 in the first quarter of this year.
That's a very big deal for Southwest Airlines and brings with it quite a bit of change.
We announced 2 days ago that we have a new Southwest experience the new in-flight cabin experience upgrade that we are planning for the 700s.
We will begin to see the impact from the new Boeing agreement that we came to agreement on in December.
You'll see those financial effects flowing through the year.
We plan to pay down more debt and that's on top of 2011's debt paydown all post-acquisition.
So a lot of things are occurring in 2012.
And again I feel like our folks are very much up to the task.
In addition to those things in the background we'll continue construction of technology.
And in particular to make sure that Southwest Airlines has the capabilities to fly international over the next couple of years.
We're bringing in 33 new airplanes.
We're going to retire 40.
So you'll actually see a decline in the fleet from where we stand today through the end of the year.
Again that's probably more mechanical than anything else.
We grew the fleet a little bit in 2011.
We're pretty much ending up in 2012 where we had initially targeted because we did push some retirements from '11 to '12.
So again I wouldn't read anything into that other than mechanically that's just the way the retirements match up to the acquisition of the new aircraft.
As we said in the release we've got $1.3 billion of capital spending planned that I believe is unchanged from what you all have heard from us before.
No external financings are planned.
We're clearly managing for free cash flow and very much continuing to focus on driving shareholder value.
We have a $500 million share repurchase authorization and of that we have 225 remaining.
Very pleased with our liquidity $275 million -- sorry I can't read my own writing.
That is $275 million remaining.
Very pleased with our liquidity of $3.5 billion plus our untapped revolver of $800 million.
Very pleased with our balance sheet leverage and how it is rapidly declining.
And again just very pleased overall with our 2011 performance and the momentum we have coming into 2012.
So with that hopefully very quick overview let me just turn it over to Laura Wright our CFO.
Thank you Gary and good morning everyone or afternoon to some of you.
Our fourth quarter GAAP's net income was $152 million or $0.20 per diluted share.
Excluding special items we reported earnings of $66 million or $0.09 per diluted share including the anti-dilutive effect of our convertible debt.
As Gary noted this exceeded our first call census estimate by $0.01.
Special items during the quarter consisted primarily of $107 million net related to noncash hedging gains and $21 million net of taxes for AirTran integration expenses primarily related to consulting fees and our cancellation of XM radio.
Our full year 2011 GAAP net income was $178 million or $0.23 per share.
And excluding special items our 2011 net income was $330 million or $0.43 per diluted share.
Our pretax return on invested capital for 2011 was approximately 7%.
And I agree with Gary 2011 was a big year for Southwest and I would also like to thank all of the employees at Southwest and AirTran for their hard work and their many accomplishments in 2011 that enabled us to announce the results that we are telling you about today.
On the revenue front we had a strong fourth quarter revenue performance.
We set a number of fourth quarter revenue records.
Those included operating revenues passenger revenues passenger yield passenger unit revenues and total unit revenues.
Our operating revenues were $4.1 billion and our passenger revenues were $3.9 billion which was a $915 million increase or 31% up from last year's $2.9 billion Southwest-only results.
About 2/3 of the passenger revenue growth was attributable to AirTran and the remaining 1/3 or $300 million was organic growth at Southwest.
On a combined basis our passenger unit revenues grew 8.2% in the quarter versus last year and our total unit revenues were up 7%.
Our October combined PRASM was up close to 7% November combined PRASM was up close to 10% and our December combined PRASM was up 6% to 7% as previously reported.
During the fourth quarter we corrected the income statement allocation at certain of our revenues from the sale of frequent flyer points associated with our Chase credit card agreement.
The reallocation didn't change our total revenues or bottom line but was simply a shift of revenues from the other revenue category to passenger revenues.
This rate class totaled $46 million for January through September.
However there was an additional $13 million that we re-classed for October and November subsequent to our reporting our monthly PRASM results.
On a monthly basis re-class has about 0.5 point or less benefit to PRASM.
Our December PRASM that we reported already reflected the reallocation at the time we reported our traffic.
During the fourth quarter our yields are up 8.5% on a combined basis and our yields at AirTran outperformed Southwest in the fourth quarter.
They were up almost 17% year-over-year.
We've made significant improvements in the AirTran revenue management structure already even before optimizing the network which begins this year and before connecting the networks later this year both of which will also bring significant revenue potential.
Our average fares on a combined basis were up 10% as a result of 8 fare increases we've taken since the fourth quarter of last year.
Despite the increased fares our load factors have continued to be strong with an 80.5% fourth quarter combined load factor.
That was down 0.2 points from last year's record fourth quarter load factor.
Our mix of full-fare passengers in the quarter at Southwest was 17%.
The number of Southwest full-fare passengers were down about 1% in the fourth quarter versus our third quarter and that is significantly better than the average sequential drop in fourth quarter full-fare passengers versus third quarter.
Looking at several measures all indications are that our corporate travel turns are stable.
This also evidenced that over time many different business passengers are purchasing travel and other fare categories impacting our full-fare mix versus historical trends.
Our Business Select fare product had another strong performance with $22 million in revenues for the quarter.
Our Wright Amendment revenues were $56 million in the quarter and $240 million for the full year up from $217 million in 2010.
And based on the revenues and the strong booking trends thus far in January we expect our January passenger unit revenues to increase year-over-year 7% to 8% on a combined basis.
February is currently on a similar pace as year-over-year pace this January but we do expect to have more difficult year-over-year comparisons in March due to the timing of Easter.
Our fourth quarter freight revenues were $36 million.
That was up 13% over last year.
And our fourth quarter other revenues were $212 million which decreased $24 million as compared to fourth quarter 2010 combined results.
Our fourth quarter EarlyBird revenues increased $7 million to $36 million and the full year EarlyBird revenues were $142 million far surpassing the $100 million annual target that we set when we launched the product.
We currently expect our first quarter 2012 freight and other revenues to be comparable to our fourth quarter 2011 freight and other revenues.
Now turning to fuel again the year-over-year decline in our fourth quarter earnings excluding special items was largely driven by higher energy prices.
Our fourth quarter economic fuel costs per gallon including hedges and taxes was $3.29 at 34% increase over the prior year.
Our unhedged fuel price per gallon was $3.17.
The increase in our fuel expense in the fourth quarter due to the 34% increase in fuel price per gallon was approximately $380 million in the fourth quarter.
And for the full year the increase in fuel bill due to the higher prices was $1.6 billion.
Our fourth quarter premium expenses related to fuel hedging which are recorded below the line in other gains and losses were $14 million in the quarter and that compared to $44 million a year ago.
The market value of our hedged portfolio at December 31 was a liability of $44 million.
That compared to a liability at September 30 of $660 million.
And as of January 17 the value of that hedged portfolio is an asset of approximately $100 million.
Now looking forward on fuel we utilized a similar strategy for the first half of 2012 hedges as we did in the fourth quarter of 2011 where we've reduced our floor exposure we reduced our premiums and also reduced our hedge protection.
As a result of these actions for the first half of 2012 we had minimal protection but in the second half of 2012 we've got meaningful projection for WTI prices in excess of $100.
In turn we were able to reduce our current premium review spend for 2012 to $48 million.
That compares to a $114 million spend in 2011 and a $162 million in 2010 on a combined basis.
In the first quarter 2012 our hedged premiums are approximately $6 million and the hedge premiums in the second quarter are approximately $5 million.
Based on the market prices as of January 13 and our existing hedged portfolio we currently expect our first quarter 2012 economic fuel price per gallon to be in the $3.35 per gallon range.
This includes an approximate $0.12 per gallon hedging loss.
Our full year 2012 fuel cost estimate again based on the January 13 forward curve is $3.30 per gallon and the full year unhedged fuel cost estimate is $3.22 per gallon.
Our hedge position in 2013 and '14 provides significant upside protection although at today's backward-dated prices the market value of our positions is modest.
These hedges provide meaningful protection to us if prices increase to the $105 and above level.
As we move away from our years with 2008 losses we have 2013 and our last year of the legacy hedge we intend to keep our annual fuel hedge premiums below $100 million and build a portfolio that provides catastrophic protection upon appropriate market conditions.
Now turning to our nonfuel costs on a combined basis our fourth quarter operating expenses excluding fuel and special items increased 2.7% versus last year.
And on a unit basis they increased 0.5%.
This was better than our 2% guidance primarily due to lower maintenance costs and lower advertising spend in the fourth quarter.
For 2012 we currently anticipate a modest unit cost increase excluding fuel profit sharing and revenue-related costs on a combined basis primarily due to salaries wages and benefits maintenance and airport costs.
However our 2012 PRASM will also be impacted by a couple of items related to our fleet replacement initiatives.
First the refresh of our 737-700 interiors which we're calling Evolve the cost of that retrofit will be expensed versus capitalized and we currently expect $40 million to hit maintenance expense in 2012 and $20 million to hit our maintenance cost line in 2013.
Second with our decision to accelerate retirement of our 737 classic fleet we've shortened their expected useful life which has increased our classic depreciation expense in 2012 by about $50 million.
We're very excited about the series of fleet announcements that we've made over the past couple of months.
Certainly this week's announcement regarding our decision to retrofit our 737-700 fleet with the new customer and environmental-friendly interior along with the 6 extra seats is the final step of the much larger fleet initiative.
Collectively the combination of the new 737-800 with the Sky Interior the Evolve retrofit on our 700 fleet the acceleration of our 737 classic retirements with MG and Max replacements delivers a handsome financial return allowing us to reduce our operating costs and also produce more revenues.
We've reduced the fuel burn by 6% to 7% by replacing our classic aircraft with the NG and by 17% to 18% with the Max.
As our classic fleet has aged the annual maintenance cost has increased due to a higher level of inspections and the average annual structural maintenance expense for our oldest classics is around $2 million per aircraft annually.
Additionally the newer airplanes will reduce the average service time and increase our aircraft productivity.
All in the financial impact of our fleet modernization program easily exceeds our 15% return-on-investment criteria accounting for the capital costs for replacement and the financial costs associated with shortening the classic lives.
We anticipate the combination of fleet initiatives will conservatively produce a mid- to high-single digit cabin improvement upon completion of the Evolve retrofit program and upon having about 100 -800s in our fleet.
The revenue potential for the Evolve program is conservatively in the $200 million annual range and the 800s with 28% more seats also provides the opportunity for hundreds of millions of additional revenue.
And we currently have 78 of the 800s on a firm order delivering between 2012 and 2014.
For 2012 we expect the contribution to earnings before tax from these collective fleet programs to be about $70 million taking into account the $40 million maintenance charge for the retrofit and the accelerated depreciation.
The contribution to 2013 EBT is expected to exceed $300 million again accounting for the additional maintenance expense.
And by 2014 when the Evolve retrofit is complete and we have a substantial number of the 800s in our fleet the expected EBT contribution is in excess of $500 million.
For 2012 we're also expecting a significant decline in our non-operating expenses with our interest expense expected to be down almost $60 million on a combined basis due to the retirement of $1 billion of debt since the AirTran acquisition.
Additionally we're expecting a significant decline in our hedging premium expense for fiscal 2011 again with our 2012 premiums at $48 million versus $114 million in 2011.
We remain on track to realize the $400 million of net synergies related to the AirTran acquisition in 2013.
Net revenue gains remain a primary contributor.
However now that we're 8 months into the acquisition we currently expect that our cost synergies in the aggregate and on an annual basis will exceed the expected cost of synergies from increased labor costs.
The estimated labor cost to synergy in total is approximately $150 million and that is expected to be phased in between 2012 and 2015.
For 2012 we're currently forecasting net synergies in the $200 million range with the net-net revenues 2/3 of the contribution and net costs the remaining 1/3.
In 2011 the net synergies realized were approximately $80 million split evenly between revenues and costs.
The revenue gains were from revenue management actions on pricing and inventory management and the cost savings were in corporate overhead maintenance contracts renegotiated financing contracts and insurance and general procurement.
We ended 2011 with $3.1 billion of core-unrestricted cash and short-term investments net of fuel hedged collateral deposits provided to counterparties of $226 million.
During 2011 we generated $1.4 billion of cash flow from operations with $400 million of free cash flow.
We repaid $638 million of debt during 2011.
And as a result our leverage including off balance sheet leases is approximately 47% down from just over 50% after acquiring AirTran in May.
Our 2011 CapEx was $968 million.
This included approximately $40 million of capitalized costs that were related to the acquisition and integration of AirTran.
I wanted to quickly point out the increase on our balance sheet and our air traffic liability account.
There is a $257 million increase that relates directly to our All-New Rapid Rewards program.
The cash sales from points sold to our business partners during the full year increased $250 million versus 2010 and the vast majority of this revenue is deferred thereby increasing our air traffic liability and this will be recognized into passenger revenues as flights that occur in the future.
For the fourth quarter alone our cash partner sales increased over $100 million.
Again showing that this new program is producing very strong results.
As of yesterday our cash had grown to $3.5 billion and we continue to have an $800 million outline of credit fully available and undrawn.
As Gary pointed out cap spending for 2012 unchanged at $1.3 billion and debt maturities of $560 million planned for 2012.
Let me quickly finish with a fleet and capacity overview.
During the fourth quarter we took delivery of 3 -700 aircraft from Boeing and we retired 4 of our 300 2 of which were on leases ending the year with 698 airplanes.
In 2012 we will take 33 airplanes all 800s 5 which will be released from a third party.
The first of our 800 deliveries are scheduled for March.
We have 2 and the remainder are pretty evenly spread throughout the year.
With the 40 retirements planned for 2012 we will end the year with a fleet of 691 airplanes.
And we still expect that our 2012 combined available seat capacity will be relatively flat with our 2011 combined capacity.
In the first quarter of '12 our combined capacity is going to be up about 1% versus last year.
That's mainly attributable to an extra day in the quarter with this being a leap year.
In the second quarter our capacity is expected to be down 1% to 2%.
These forecasts that we're providing today include our current forecast which includes the impact of the AirTran aircraft transitions that are going to begin in the next few months.
It also includes the addition of a larger gauge -800 airplanes and the additional seats from the recently announced Evolve interior on our 700 fleet.
Our schedule currently published through August 10 does not reflect the additional seats of Evolve and the 800.
And with that I will turn it over to Bob Jordan for an integration update on AirTran.
Well thank you Laura and thanks everyone for joining us on the call today.
I'm very happy to report that overall our AirTran integration is proceeding on track as planned and is on time.
I want to begin by thanking everybody at both Southwest and AirTran for their hard work and dedication to the integration.
They have kept their eye on the ball by running one of the best operations in the industry while staying focused on the integration plan.
In fact 2011 was AirTran's best operational year ever with on-time performance for the year at AirTran of 84.8%.
And in December which is typically a very tough month with winter weather AirTran's on-time performance was 91.9% which is the best December ever beating previous December by nearly 10 points.
There was an equally strong performance in mishandled bags and complaints so I'm just absolutely pleased with the people of AirTran for these results.
On the integration front optimizing our joint network continues to be a significant focus with scheduled publication lead times.
Most of that doesn't really show up until 2012.
But by improving overlap markets and repurposing less profitable flying now we are creating the opportunities to improve our network returns and some examples include our announcement during the fourth quarter of new 2012 AirTran service to Mexico City in Cabo San Lucas in AirTran -- I'm sorry Southwest entry into Atlanta that begins next month with 15 daily flights ramping up to 18 daily flights by the summer.
In total based on our joint schedules currently published through August 12 we will serve 103 cities on our combined networks providing significant revenue potential when we have the capacity and capability in place to connect the networks in 2012.
We have completed 22 of 31 shared city transitions co-locating our operations side by side.
And a number of these shared cities we have also in-sourced below-the-wing operations to Southwest ramp personnel.
We've harmonized our passenger services vendors.
We've harmonized our DIs programs.
We've merged maintenance facilities in Orlando and Baltimore during the fourth quarter.
And construction of the Atlanta cargo facility has been completed and is scheduled to open in conjunction with our service start-up there on February 12.
We began to harmonize policies and procedures in the fourth quarter including things like sporting equipment and select fees for UMs and pets for example.
We've also harmonized our large-scale maintenance contracts for example GE and Honeywell and those that resulted in substantial cost synergies as Laura has already covered.
On the labor front our pilots ratified their seniority list integration agreement in November.
Our flight attendants mechanics and flight instructors have reached tentative SLI agreements that have been sent to membership for ratification votes and these are just absolutely huge accomplishments and I want to commend our people for their focus and their ownership of this key step of getting the SLI proposal out for a vote.
As you all know seniority list integration is absolutely a crucial part of our integration plan and it's wonderful that we can move forward with this without arbitration.
We are also very excited to be on track with the integration just overall especially the receipt of our single operating certificate which we are still expecting in March of this year.
And overall we entered 2012 well positioned to begin the real heavy lifting of aircraft and station conversions larger network moves many of which are already in upcoming schedules.
Overall as well I'm just very pleased with AirTran's financial performance as Laura mentioned.
AirTran's marketing revenue management and network planning activities have been managed by Southwest since early last fall.
And through the combination of modest network changes the utilization of Southwest revenue management tools and techniques we are seeing substantial year-over-year RASM increases at AirTran each month.
And the acquisition was modestly accretive to our 2011 results as we had planned.
And finally I would like to close with a historic milestone that's been reached just this week in our integration efforts.
The very first group of AirTran employees officially joined the Southwest family.
And I for one am extremely excited with this integration milestone.
It just moves us one step closer to the day that will become one airline.
And just on a final note I had the pleasure of spending yesterday in Atlanta just working the terminal there talking to a lot of our AirTran folks and I can assure you that the AirTran employees remain as enthusiastic and optimistic about joining Southwest Airlines as they have from the very beginning and that's just a absolutely wonderful thing.
And with that Tom I would like to open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And we'll now begin our question and answer session.
We'll take our first question from Bob McAdoo with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys just a couple of quick ones.
When we think about this flat capacity for 2012 in the context of adding 6 seats to airplanes and whatever when you say flat is that flat in ASMs? So therefore the plane miles is dropping? Is it flat in plain miles therefore seat miles are increasing? How should we think about the word flat given the changes that are going on in the fleet? So Bob when we say flat capacity we're talking about available seat miles on a year-over-year basis.
So certainly we have more seats either being phased in but we have airplanes being integrated going through conversion at AirTran and we have and as we noted we're actually going to be down net for the year so that's flat ASMs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second thing is you talk about the nonfuel costs being up in this quarter and in this year how much of that is what I guess you would call kind of normal inflation kind of things versus the fact that you'll have by the end of the year some AirTran airplanes that are converted? And I think we've all talked about how the AirTran system when it's converted will have higher costs and higher RASM.
How much of it will be tied to the growth of -- the conversion of AirTran airplanes by the end of the year? Or how many AirTran airplanes would actually be potentially even converted by the end of the year? How far along would the process be? So I'll answer the first question then we can answer the second.
So if you look on our 2012 plan the impact of AirTran I noted we have net synergies from the revenue and the costs so this the good guys bad guys that's about $200 million.
So net-net AirTran's integration is not creating the cost inflation that we talked about.
It's primarily from inflation in our salaries wages and benefits which is contractual rate increases and step increases.
We also are expecting some inflationary increases on the airport costs this year and maintenance.
Those are really the 3 big drivers but it's not being caused by the AirTran integration.
Second question was the -- Bob you were talking about the integration of the airplanes for 2012? We currently have the plan of the aircraft integration and modification start assuming again that we achieve SOC in March as planned.
Those will start in late March early April.
The current plan is to begin and complete about 13 of those next year put those back into the Southwest network of about 13 of the 737s.
So from a capacity impact those will be retrofitted with the new Evolve interior so we'll move from 137 to 143.
But on a capacity basis it's a very modest impact.
Those 13 aircraft moving from 137 to 143 have a very very very modest impact on the capacity change.
And we'll take our next question from Ray Neidl with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just looking at your program for the stock buyback.
Is that because -- I know you had strong cash flow but are you required to do that for the employee compensation stock that you give to them? And will that be permanent? Is that something you're going to keep up for the employees? And then regarding the debt buyback program again you have strong cash flow but you're doing that basically -- why would you buy back your debt? Or are you doing that basically because you're trying to keep your investment grade rating and you're not comfortable with your balance sheet even though your debt-to-capitalization ratio is low? The first question which was the share buyback it is not related to any of our employee stock program.
No requirement.
That was just a decision that our board made as we've done in the past based on excess cash and trying to enhance our shareholder returns.
So second question was the...
Research Division</strong> The debt buyback.
Oh the debt buyback.
So those were really...
They're not really buybacks.
Not buybacks.
We didn't go out in the market.
They were debt maturities.
Certainly there was debt associated with AirTran that was called upon the acquisition that's included in there.
But when we acquired AirTran we were very clear that they had much much more leverage and more debt than Southwest.
So I think from day one we announced our intent to over the first couple of years reduce the combined leverage after acquisitions.
So we're just completing that plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay that sounds logical.
And just as a follow-up but different direction with AMR going into bankruptcy do you see any possible opportunities going into the FW? No.
We'll take our next question from Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary a little over a month ago maybe 2 months ago now you did put out a memo to the employees just noting the huge changes the industry's gone through and sort of talked about the challenges that that might have for Southwest.
And as I was kind of thinking about that I mean think about your cost structure.
What I kind of get challenged by is obviously not much you can do in the long term on fuel.
Your employees and your planes seem pretty productive.
So I'm sort of I guess struck by the notion that maybe it suggests that we've got to kind of reassess compensation expectations.
But maybe you can talk through a little bit of the logic at what you see happening there what your hopes were to sort of achieve with this.
Well first of all it was just -- as you well know it was the truth.
And it was really a reaction to the events across town of course but also a misunderstanding of whether it is an opportunity for Southwest or whether it presents more challenge.
And so I was simply trying to address that.
The fact is that our hey rates are higher now than anybody else in the industry by quite some margin.
We make that up obviously by increased productivity.
So we need to sustain that and to the extent that we have become less productive in areas which has happened.
Things change over time Bill and we do have opportunities.
We need to re-energize ourselves and then certainly to the extent that we still have waste that hasn't been wrung out in the company we want to go and attack that.
But I just challenge the premise that there's no opportunities left to improve productivity or improve our efficiencies or to eliminate waste because there are and we can never be satisfied with that.
Now we've got some fundamental opportunities from a if you want to think about it as a policy perspective to improve our productivity.
We can refresh our fleet and certainly replace less efficient less reliable aircraft with more efficient more reliable aircraft and that was a fundamental component of the fleet strategy that we announced roughly a week or so later.
So I think that puts that into context.
So we're certainly going to pursue those kinds of opportunities.
In terms of scheduling airplanes on a daily basis we've done a lot over the last couple of years to trim schedules but there is available aircraft time if we can be more innovative and clever in finding ways to successfully market that time especially late in the evening.
So we have those kinds of basic opportunities as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well one of the things that comes up a lot obviously is now that Americans and maybe we should revisit some of the consolidation stuff and you've seen in the press some suppositions that some of your peers are looking at that.
What's the appetite at Southwest for further M&amp;A? Obviously you've got to get through the AirTran acquisition.
But once that's done sort of how do you think about what your long-term I guess comfort with further acquisitions is? Well I don't think we're comfortable in speculating what we might or might not do in terms of any kind of a deal.
I think we would certainly admit that we have a strategy.
It's an energetic one.
We have a lot of work planned certainly for not only 2012 but '13 and '14 and '15.
And we'll only want to commit to work that we feel like we can do in a high quality way and in a successful way.
Any time you contemplate a merger obviously that is a huge undertaking and we're really busy with not only that but with other things that we have.
I would fully admit and I certainly wouldn't want to try to be cute about this.
A hub-and-spoke legacy carrier that has multiple aircraft type it's not obvious how that would fit for a company like the Southwest Airlines.
You know that.
We know that.
I think what we will clearly do and what we've admitted that we would do is we will pay close attention to any things that do become available whether it's a simple route or whether it's other assets and we'll be on our toes to move on those if there's some good opportunities.
But I can't give you a straight answer as to whether or not we would be seriously entertaining other M&amp;A activity.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification.
Are you saying your hands are sort of tied right now or too full to sort of pursue anything or you could you have the bandwidth left if something became available to look at it? I'm not answering that.
So I think that we -- if you asked us if we were busy I would say yes.
But there's a lot going on and we will always want to do that well and it would clearly be a factor in us contemplating adding anything else to our corporate to-do list.
But I didn't go -- I didn't answer the question as to whether or not I thought we had the bandwidth for it.
Priorities can be revisited and so I don't think that -- I'm not comfortable speculating on what we might or might not to in that regard.
And we'll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Trahan.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Gary about 6 months ago you said you hit the point where you think you pushed fares as much as you could to be productive but since then obviously the fare environment's gotten a lot better.
And you've matched quite a few recent industry increases including one last week so any value from capacity.
So how does demand trend today stack up to what you were seeing then when you said you thought you pushed fares high enough? Is it better? Is it about the same? Is it worse? Is visibility better? Any kind of color on that will be great.
Hunter I think the 6 months -- well 6 months ago when Laura and I put ourselves back in the August time period talking about our second quarter results and the current trends we were a little confused at that point in time with what we were seeing demand-wise.
I think since then we've clarified with our third quarter and fourth quarter results that demand has actually continued to be quite strong.
So we had a little midyear chop for whatever reason there.
But third and fourth has just been very steady very stable very strong and that's what we’re seeing so far here in January.
It's a very good environment.
The macro environment everything we read every day feels better than it did there when we were having the debt crisis and I think everybody was spooked by a number of things that were going on there.
So absolutely things feel much more stable much more consistent.
Laura's already reported here this morning or this afternoon that we're looking at 7% to 8% unit revenues gains yet again here in January so I'm feeling pretty good.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And I wanted to just ask a quick one on the other revenue line.
I realized there was some restatement I should say some reclassification of revenue but even factoring that in I think you guys were expecting if I'm not mistaken mid- to high-single digit growth but it came down about #10%.
So I guess what drove that above and beyond that reclassification? And is it possible that maybe we're starting to see some of that back fee revenue dissynergies sort of pop up there? And how should we think about modeling that going into next year? No Hunter it was -- really the difference from the guidance that we gave you was reclassifications.
It was the reclassification we talked about and it was also higher deferral percentages on our business partner income which were actually up more than we expected we're just deferring more of it into ATL but we did not see any dissynergies in the numbers for the back fees that you're talking about.
So it's really related to the accounting for the business partner income.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Gary I'm still trying to reconcile the generally bullish demand tone of this call with the fact that you have blocked several industry fare increases in recent months.
This isn't a question about future pricing.
I'm just trying to get a handle on what you've seen in the last 2 or 3 months.
As Hunter pointed out you did take a long haul increase but you've resisted attempts to move up fares in the kind of sub-1 500-mile market.
How do we reconcile that fact with what you're saying? And would it be wrong to read into this that shorter haul demand might be under some pressure relative to longer haul? Well it's probably a similar answer to one I gave to Bill.
I won't talk about pricing tactics either in the rearview mirror or going forward.
We want to be the low fare leader.
We're very pleased with our no-hidden-fees positioning.
I think that's worked very very well for us.
And then it's down to managing market by market and most markets have fairly significant competitive situations underway.
But otherwise I'm not comfortable giving any particular insight.
I would say that with the exception of sort of the middle of the year we've had a very strong revenue performance and a very strong revenue environment.
We are in 2012 about to begin managing quite a bit of churn in the AirTran Southwest route systems.
We're trying to pay very close attention to that.
Overall macro wise we're feeling pretty good about the economy and our own performance.
I think what we've all been -- don't lose sight of the fact that what Laura was reporting about the AirTran unit and that the AirTran yields as a unit are up almost 20% at times.
So these are just facts that I'm illustrating that while we didn't take the fare increase we got a much higher yielding result through other techniques.
So our balance -- as I've said I'm very pleased with the fourth quarter revenue performance very pleased with the customer satisfaction.
We are managing very carefully this introduction of a brand-new frequent flier program which I think here at this point in time is going exceptionally well.
So all of those things are factors in the way we think about pricing at a macro level.
But overall again the trends are good and obviously I'm hoping that that translates into a strong revenue performance here in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Well as a follow-up to that Gary since we don't have the DOT data ourselves yet to answer this question historically AirTran yields across the spectrum of stage length have been lower than yours they've made up for it with bag fees and the tire loads.
But in terms of sort of equalizing the yield performance between the 2 units you said that AirTran is up 20%.
What sort of a current differential if you're aware of one between Southwest pricing and AirTran pricing? I don't think that there is a -- is or was a fundamental difference in the pricing structures.
Now clearly there are some differences.
If one sits down and studies it market by market of course we don't have complete overlap either with our systems.
But I don't think you'll find a particularly different price fare structure Jamie.
And again this is all public information.
What is admittedly different been between the 2 companies is the mix.
Mix of business and leisure mix of connections and non-connections mix of full-fare discount.
That is very different.
And without using fare increases we've been able to change that revenue management approach within AirTran as we have already shared and that's what's driving unit revenue growth at AirTran.
But it's not a fair structure per se.
As Laura's saying it's execution.
So it's how we are utilizing that fare structure that we've been able to make some improvements.
I think the Southwest -- I doubt that it's the Southwest brand per se but it is sort of the Southwest approach and Southwest philosophies that are realizing some gains right now.
We'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
One is are you preparing for any or accruing for any wage rate increases for labor as the employees ratify their single less? Well I think the answer is no.
Because as I'm thinking out loud I'm looking to Bob and Laura here that implies as a retroactive rate change and we don't do that.
So we've done that in the past but that's not currently in the works.
Unless I'm just forgetting something...
But in terms of the cost guidance in our budgeting that we give you we have expected -- we build into our forecast timing of when we expect some of those equalization to occur.
So it's in our guidance but not in the accruals.
Yes yes yes.
I think the big difference is that where you know for example the pilots and then where we have a contract out or a proposal out for a ratification you know what's planned.
And so we have those raises and the timing of those raises in the forecast.
But there is no catch-up retro at least as far as I remember or any group that has either ratified or is in the works or any group that we hit or any plan for any group that we need to move through SLI in the future.
So there's nothing to accrue.
But Helane just to make sure we're all 3 understanding your question we have -- the pilots we have the deal.
So we know exactly what pilots move to what pay rates and when.
And as Laura mentioned in her remarks we're phasing AirTran's integration into Southwest.
And therefore those labor rate changes are also phasing into Southwest between now and when we're done which will be roughly 2014.
Those are all forward-looking so there's nothing to "accrue" in that sense.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the numbers that Laura's giving out for cost guidance includes the -- what you just said the integrations and the phase-ins right? So if I'm understanding...
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then my second question is with respect to the additional seats on the aircraft is there any way -- I mean I know capacity is going to be flat and so on.
But is there any way to say what the ASM impact is from just adding those seats? Sure.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sort of net of return.
We think we can get it to you.
We can give you a full run rate when it's all in and as you know they're phasing in so you get -- you don't get the full impact in your one.
So we're -- if you give us some time we can get you that.
Otherwise we'll just shoot it to you.
But -- and this somewhat ties into Bob McAdoo's question the available seat mile forecast is almost literally flat in '12 compared to '11 for the full year.
The trips though are down and they're down probably 3-plus percent.
So it's everything that we've been discussing.
You get more seats per departure and you may get a little bit longer distance being flown on average as well.
But it's really the additional seats that's making up that gap in trips.
And the aircraft fleet itself will be down 7 units again as we discussed by the end of the year.
Yes [indiscernible] just looking here it looks like it's about -- for the move to the Evolve interior for the aircraft that will be converted in 2012 it looks like it's about a 0.5-ish impact on capacity.
And we'll take our next question from Dan McKenzie with Rodman Renshaw.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
Southwest has done a lot of network restructuring and implemented a number of revenue initiatives over the past years but margins still remain pretty frustrated by the high fuel prices.
So I'm wondering how willing would you be to take even more aggressive steps including shrinking the airline further to hit targeted returns? And I guess inclusive of the question is do you feel at least internally that based on the capacity plans that you have that you can hit the targeted returns that you've outlined in the past? Well yes I think I would agree with what I think you just said as a latter point.
I think in the end I think any management worth its salt has to do what it's got to do.
And we're all obligated -- we have a duty to manage our shareholder value here and to hit our returns on investments.
So there's some art in agreeing on what that target ought to be but I think everyone generally agrees with our target of 15% on a pretax basis.
So we're determined to do that number one.
Number two I don't believe that the right way to achieve that is to shrink the fleet mainly because we have so many opportunities.
If we don't like the way our assets are deployed today we have a lot of opportunities to deploy them in a different way.
And I think that that would -- strategically it would be a mistake.
It's very painful to downsize.
There is a cost associated from a goodwill perspective with customers with employees with downsizing and so companies do that.
Some companies are forced to do that.
It's a tool that we have if we find that we need it.
I think it is my least favorite tool.
The nice thing for us is we're only in 72 cities right now and we are creating more capabilities to be able to serve even more markets very effectively.
So that is our plan.
And again as you know our orientation is to fix our fuel cost issue and our profitability challenge and then grow the airline and do it in that way.
But if we have to shrink we have to shrink.
But that's certainly not in the cards right now Dan.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
And I guess going back to some of the market commentary if I could focus on just one part of the country Atlanta stands out as 11th largest city in the country but ranks first for capacity.
And nearby Charlotte ranks as the #1 growth market in the United States for capacity versus just 4 years ago.
So relative to the rest of the country capacity at 2 nearby airports has not been particularly restructured versus just about every other larger market in the country.
And I guess given that I'm wondering what you can share about how that impacts your view of your fifth-largest market or at least that part of the country? Well I'm not sure that I have anything new to add to the discussion.
We feel like and so does AirTran we feel like we can add value to the Atlanta discussion.
We can win customers in Atlanta.
We can take existing Southwest customers to Atlanta.
We can certainly significantly restructure the AirTran schedule and take advantage of the Southwest network.
And that's what we're focused on doing.
We've had great success with that approach especially here in Denver over the last 5 years.
And we're the low-cost guy we're the low-fare leader and we'll be something different in the market.
I think the market is embracing that and we're certainly excited with what we've heard so far.
Charlotte I don't have a whole lot to offer.
There is a presence there by AirTran which means by definition that we'll give it a good hard look.
And we have not announced what our plans are one way or the other with Charlotte yet.
So it's a little premature for me to address that.
But Atlanta we've been very open.
You can't really acquire AirTran without having some idea about what you're going to do in Atlanta.
We've shared that and we're about to get started.
And ladies and gentlemen at this time we have time for one final question.
We'll take our last question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could talk about your overlap with American auto markets basis.
Well we can...
Research Division</strong> What percent of your network overlaps with American capacity? It's sort of a direct and indirect question so if you look at it on an indirect basis a lot.
There's a lot of overlap in Dallas.
There's a lot of overlap in Chicago even though it's not the same airport.
We have a lot of overlap with them in California.
They have a large presence in New York.
But those are the big hitters I guess South Florida as well.
So there's plenty of overlap.
There's plenty of opportunities to gain some share if they shrink.
They have made dramatic changes to their route structure over the last 20 years and Southwest has picked up a whole lot of business.
So you know what is underway at Dallas Love Field? We're completely reconstructing the terminal.
The Wright Amendment of course restrictions drop in 2014 which will allow for a more fair competition out of the North Texas area too.
So there are some things happening there.
But however...
Duane if you look at the direct and indirect where you count Dallas and Chicago as common markets it's about a 35% overlap with our capacity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just do you have total capacity trends in your markets and in competing capacity trends in the fourth quarter and into the first quarter here? I do have that.
Let me get it real quick.
Okay so if we look at first quarter the total seats in our direct markets are expected to be down about 3%.
If you look at direct and indirect it's the same number down 3%.
That compares to fourth quarter where competitor seats were down 2.6% in our direct markets and down 2.3% when you include indirect.
So slightly better comparison in 1Q versus 4Q.
And at this time ladies and gentlemen I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Tom and thanks everyone for joining us.
Of course as always if you have any follow-up questions Ryan [ph] and I are available.
And I hope everyone has a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Ginger Hardage Senior Vice President of Culture and Communications.
Great.
Thank you Tom.
We know that everyone's ready to now ask questions of Bob Gary and Laura.
So if you wouldn't mind just giving us the routine on how they queue up for calls and we'll get that portion started right now.
[Operator Instructions] And ladies and gentlemen we'll take our first question from Mary Schlangenstein with Bloomberg News.
I had just a couple of quick questions.
Laura I wanted to ask you I think you talked about an annual hedging spend limit.
Was that right or did I misunderstand that? Yes what I mentioned was prospectively as we get to what we call clean sheet years it's our goal to have annual hedging premiums under $100 million.
Great.
And the second question was Gary when you were talking about increasing productivity and eliminating waste and you mentioned potentially looking at some later flights in the day is there any potential that you guys would start doing some stuff overnight? Or were you just talking about maybe more flights toward the end of your current day? I'll let Bob answer that one.
Well Mary we don't -- over the last few years as we pruned out the unproductive flying in the schedule a lot of that is really early in the day and really late in the day kind of flying for the most part.
We have flights you've heard this before that we just weren't covering our fuel costs for example.
As we've really worked the network and as hopefully we get some economic improvement here in 2012 it does look like there's a chance to begin to stretch the day back out just a bit add some flying towards the end of the day and the beginning that we may have pruned out over time.
I'm not talking about going back to 2007 or 2008 but it does look like we've got opportunities to stretch the day back out just a bit.
The second thing you asked about the overnight or red eye flying.
One of the things that we can learn from AirTran is they actually did a fair amount of red eye flying; some of that actually pretty profitable.
So the schedules that are in place out through August of this year we have actually maintained a lot of that red eye flying in the AirTran schedule and are considering some of that for the combined schedules that we'll move forward.
It's nothing dramatic.
We're talking about 10 to 15 flights not 50 or 75.
But I don't think we've concluded it so I would not rule out some modest red eye flying added to the mix.
But again it's a fairly small number of flights and it would make a pretty small dent in our overall utilization and capacity.
Okay.
And when you talk about just adding some back a little bit later in the day that you had pruned back so are you talking about flights that generally wind up around 10 or later than that? Oh no we're talking about flights that generally earlier than that this is a sort of -- and again it's market by market but a lot of this we've actually pulled out 8:00 8:30 9:00 flights that just weren't enough in the heart of the day so it really is market by market.
But whether you look at your markets that are strong that can support the additional frequencies and the planes are used up in the middle of the day so their frequency would have to be added later maybe 8:00 versus 5:00.
And so we just go market by market but we are looking at some modest add backs.
And we'll take our next question from Kelly Yamanouchi with the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
I'm wondering for your Southwest service launch in Atlanta how are bookings looking whether the load factors like in your mix of premium versus discount passengers for the Southwest branded service here? Well the former we can give you a little insight on.
The latter you can't and I'll at least speak to that.
But bookings look normal.
And with all new markets we monitor them very closely and we use reference markets to get some idea.
And it's pretty typical for a new city.
We have some that are ahead of what you would think some that are behind what you would think but overall it looks fine.
At this stage with advance bookings these are all going to be leisure customers for the most part.
They could be business customers who are willing to commit to advanced purchase restrictions.
But you can't really get any kind of a read based on the booking as to what the purpose of the trip is.
So we don't know but they're all discount tickets right now.
One other thing Kelly I would mention to you is that when we start a month we probably have half of the bookings in place for the whole system for that month.
So a lot has to happen the week of travel.
And it appears to me that Atlanta's not going to be any different in that regard.
The only other thing I would say is that just the nature of the itineraries that are being booked we tend to be as you know a point-to-point or a nonstop airline and the bookings suggest that as well.
So it looks very normal for Southwest city opening.
Great.
And I'm wondering what kind of competitive response you see from Delta and whether that's better or worse than you expected? Well they're one of the largest airlines in the world and with their #1 market that they serve and so I would expect them to be vigorous competitors and we thrive on competition.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll take our last question from David Koenig with the Associated Press.
You've talked about first quarter demand but I didn't hear you break it out between leisure and business travel demand.
And I know it's early is there anything you could say there even about the first 18 19 days of the month? Yes David we didn't speak to that but just talking about what we've seen so far business travel looks very stable.
I don't see it going up or down in terms of the fourth quarter performance.
It does feel like we were still lagging in 2007 so it's pretty recession levels with respect to the business travel.
But as we've been saying it is a very healthy performance the traffic and demand look really good.
A lot of the changes that we've made seem to really be working well and in particular the All-New Rapid Rewards program.
So all indications are that business travel is holding up quite nicely.
But I don't think we can give you any more insight about January.
I would be surprised based on the overall trends to see any fundamental change in January.
But I think the honest answer is we don't really have any insight into that yet.
Was that our last question? And yes sir it is.
At this time I'd hand the call back over to you for any closing or additional remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all so much for calling in today.
If you think of additional questions as your stories develop you know that we stand by and we'll be ready to get those answers for you.
That number is 214-792-4847.
Thank you so much for being of the call today and hope everyone has a great day.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today's conference.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's call to discuss first quarter results.
Joining me on the call today is Gary Kelly Southwest's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; and Laura Wright Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will begin with opening comments from Gary followed by Bob providing an update on AirTran.
And then Laura will provide a review of our first quarter results and current outlook.
As a quick reminder Southwest's first quarter 2012 consolidated results include AirTran's results.
Prior-year consolidated results do not include AirTran.
However in order to provide what we believe to be more meaningful year-over-year comparisons on today's call we will also be discussing specified results on a combined basis as defined in this morning's press release.
In addition outlook commentary will be provided on a combined basis.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent and expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results such as combined results and results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And now I'll turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thank you Marcy and thanks everybody for joining us this morning.
We'll jump right in here.
We -- while we had a modest operating profit of $10 million we had a net loss of $18 million excluding items first quarter.
Better than estimates it represents a $38 million swing from last year's modest net profit.
So comparing to combined with AirTran results from a year ago our fuel bill was up about $216 million on essentially a flat capacity and that was the challenge that we had to overcome and with revenues.
Our revenue performance was strong.
We were up almost 6% on a combined basis year-over-year.
While I am dissatisfied with our earnings results even with the seasonally slow first quarter I'm very proud of our people.
I'm very proud of their revenue performance.
On top of all that our operations turned in the best on-time performance in I think 2 decades.
So very very strong operating performance.
So I'm not going to try to rationalize a first quarter net loss.
But I will share that it was the January February problem.
If you look at March's results our profits were better than a year ago.
And so far the same is true for April.
Obviously our profit outlook has much to do with fuel prices and we're keeping a wary eye out on that.
The real story besides fuel is the construction work that's underway at Southwest Airlines investing in our future.
We have a -- a huge amount has been accomplished since 2010 including our All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program the AirTran acquisition and a major new contract with the Boeing Company.
But since last year we've made significant progress integrating AirTran in particular and I just wanted to run through that very quickly with you.
First of all we have a handful of labor seniority list agreements that are done and I'm very pleased with the progress that we're making on the ones that are not done yet.
We've consolidated the AirTran headquarters function into Dallas.
We've implemented all new aircraft maintenance management technology.
We have implemented technology to support multiple fleet types.
We've of course received our single operating certificate from the FAA.
We have also since then we've launched conversion lines to move AirTran 737s into the Southwest Airlines livery that work is underway.
We plan to get 11 airplanes converted here in 2012.
We made significant changes to AirTran's revenue management processes and also significant changes to AirTran's flight schedule including the redeployment of aircraft to new markets hopefully more lucrative international markets.
Related to all that we've spent months working on the best international solution for Southwest Airlines.
As you all know we're -- our technology is all domestic.
And I'm very pleased that this morning we announced Amadeus as our reservations technology solution for Southwest International.
Implementing that will be a top priority for us so that we can operate flights in 2014.
It also sets the stage for us to move all of our reservations the domestic reservations that is to Amadeus if we choose to.
Along those same lines we see a significant opportunity to serve Houston with international flights out of Houston's Hobby Airport.
We have a major campaign underway to obtain the necessary approvals to launch that service in 2015 which is what the Houston airport service would like.
And finally soon the technology will be ready to allow Southwest and AirTran's frequent flyers to use their flight awards on either carrier and that'll be a very nice enhancement for our customers.
Unrelated to AirTran but significant nonetheless is the addition of the 737-800 to our fleet.
This was a significant effort to develop the required technology along with new procedures and certifications.
So we have our first 2 aircraft up and flying in revenue service this month and this whole effort was done on time and on budget.
We've also begun the cabin retrofit of our 737-700s which not only improves the customer comfort but delightfully we're able to get 6 more seats onto our 700s.
That work has started.
And we continue to work the bugs out of our Row 44 Wi-Fi product.
I believe we have about 250 aircraft that are -- 210 I beg your pardon aircraft that are outfitted and we are anxious to get that rolled out by first quarter next year on our 700 fleet.
Notably the 800s will come delivered with the Row 44 Wi-Fi equipment.
So just as a reminder for everyone we have 5 strategic initiatives that we're focused on over the next several years.
Two are already up and running and in production which is our All-New Rapid Rewards program and the 737-800.
The other 3 remain a very significant work in progress which is the AirTran integration fleet modernization and ultimately our reservation system replacement which you now know at least the international piece of that will be Amadeus.
A lot of work has been done I want to again thank all of our people not only for the terrific results on a daily basis serving our customers earning Southwest such high brand rankings.
But I also want to thank them for their hard work on these strategic initiatives.
There's a lot of work to be done but I'm very very very pleased with the progress we have so far.
So Bob how about if I just hand it over to you and you can tell us what's going on at AirTran? All right Gary.
Thank you and thank you to everybody who is joining us on the call today.
I am very pleased to give you a report on AirTran and on the integration.
But first I want to congratulate of our AirTran folks on continuing to keep their eye on the business as we make progress on integration.
The AirTran operation is performing very very well.
For the second year in a row AirTran came in first in the annual Airline Quality Rating or the AQR.
AirTran also continues to post industry-leading DOT numbers.
For example in February AirTran posted a 91.2 on-time performance.
That's 5 points ahead of the industry average and a 1.32 mishandled bag ratio which is half of the industry average.
And it's all because of the people of AirTran and their focus and I am very proud of them.
On the integration front there's a lot to report.
We were delighted to receive our single operating certificate last month.
To get to SOC at just 10 short months is remarkable.
Southwest and AirTran will of course continue to operate independently but SOC gives us the ability to begin to combine the operations.
And for example the first 3 AirTran 737s are now in conversion to the Southwest livery.
And our first groups of AirTran pilots are currently in training to move to Southwest.
As Gary noted we'll transition 11 aircraft to Southwest in 2012 and the majority of the remainder of those AirTran aircraft will transition to Southwest in 2013 and early 2014.
We also continue to make progress on the labor front.
We now have agreements with our pilots our flight attendants and our flight instructors.
And we are making progress in other areas and I hope to have something to report there soon.
We have now transitioned facilities in a total of 24 airports bringing AirTran and Southwest much closer together to enhance the customer experience there and over 400 AirTran employees have now fully transitioned to Southwest Airlines.
We are also continuing to make AirTran -- the network moves many of those in the first quarter most notably the introduction of Southwest service to Atlanta on February 12 which has been just a fantastic complement to our existing AirTran service there.
While it's early the new Southwest service is already beating our expectations for both traffic and revenue performance.
And to redeploying capacity primarily from our closed small cities on the AirTran network side we've added a number of new AirTran international markets including Denver-Cancun that started earlier this week and in the next 60 days we'll be adding San Antonio-Mexico City; San Antonio-Cancun or Orange County-Mexico City; Orange County-Cabo San Lucas and Midway-Cancun.
I'm really pleased with the performance of our international markets and I'm just very optimistic about their future potential.
And as Gary noted the agreement announced this morning with Amadeus to develop a robust international solution for Southwest is a key to moving these international markets from AirTran to Southwest over time.
Overall AirTran's business continues to improve solidly year-over-year.
Positive RASM trends continue and AirTran's yields outperformed Southwest in the first quarter up about 13% year-over-year.
The synergies realized in the first quarter are already half of the $80 million realized in all of 2011 and our plan calls for reaching our $400 million total pretax synergies in 2013.
We've made a lot of progress.
We've got a lot of work in front of us.
We've got a lot of complicated work in front of us that we're managing and that includes fully connecting the networks that we anticipate having in place in 2013.
But there is just an awful lot of progress in the short 11 months since we closed this transaction on May 2 last year.
In summary I am just very pleased with how the integration is going.
I'm very pleased with AirTran's performance operational and business year-over-year.
And I can report that the people of both AirTran and Southwest continue to be extremely positive and excited about the integration and that is just unheard of in the airline industry.
And with that I'm going to turn it over to Laura to take us through the financials.
Thank you Bob and good morning or afternoon to everyone.
Excluding special items our first quarter operating profit was $10 million compared to $110 million in the first quarter of last year for Southwest stand-alone and $86 million combined.
Our revenue performance in the first quarter was strong and our nonfuel operating costs came in better than expected.
I'd like to thank our employees for answering the call to focus on cost and productivity in the first quarter.
Certainly their efforts produced tangible results.
The primary source of our decline in our operating profit was higher fuel prices.
Excluding special items we reported a net loss of $18 million or $0.02 per diluted share and this compared favorably to first call's consensus estimate of a $0.05 loss.
Our first quarter was another quarter of strong revenue performance.
We have record operating revenues passenger revenues passenger revenue yield passenger unit revenues and total unit revenues.
Our passenger revenues increased 27% or $795 million from last year's $2.9 billion Southwest-only results.
3/4 of this passenger revenue growth was attributable to AirTran and the remaining 1/4 or approximately $200 million was from organic growth at Southwest.
On a combined basis our revenues experienced a solid improvement.
On a unit basis our passenger unit revenues grew 5% versus last year and our total unit revenues grew 4.6%.
Compared to 2 years ago our passenger unit revenues are up 15% and they're up over 30% versus the first quarter of 2009.
That represents remarkable revenue progress especially as we manage through a complex integration and certainly is industry-leading if you look over a several year time period.
During the quarter our PRASM strength came primarily from our yields which were up 6.3% on a combined basis.
And as Bob noted we continue to improve AirTran's year-over-year revenue performance.
Our average fares on a combined basis were up 6.3% or $8.71 as a result of 5 systemwide fare increases we've taken since the first quarter of last year.
We have a solid outlook for our second quarter passenger revenues.
At this point our April month-to-date year-over-year increase in passenger unit revenues is currently exceeding March's 5% year-over-year increase.
Our freight and other revenues were in line with our expectations and we currently expect our second quarter 2012 freight and other revenues to be comparable to second quarter 2011 freight and other revenues.
Now turning to fuel our first quarter 2012 economic fuel price per gallon was $3.44.
That was up 16.6% or about $0.50 per gallon from the prior year combined.
The $3.44 included $0.12 in per gallon and unfavorable cash hedging settlements primarily from locks and losses from our legacy hedging portfolio.
We were able however to reduce our hedging premiums to $6 million versus $31 million in the prior year and those premiums are reflected in other gains and losses.
The $3.44 was better than our last guidance for the quarter of $3.50 and that was primarily due to slightly lower-than-expected refinery margins as our physical fuel purchasing and flight selling techniques took advantage of favorable geographical jet fuel pricing that took place during the quarter.
Looking to the second quarter our hedge protection is minimal which is a result of reducing our floor exposure and recapturing premium expense.
At current market prices we expect our second quarter economic fuel price including taxes to be in the $3.40 to $3.45 per gallon range.
That's based on the April 16 forward curve.
As noted in our fuel hedging sensitivity table that is included in this morning's press release this includes an estimated $0.03 per gallon unfavorable hedging loss much less than what we had in the first quarter.
Our second quarter premium expense is also expected to be down to approximately $12 million.
That compares to $26 million a year ago.
As we look to the second half of 2012 our hedges provide meaningful protection in a rising fuel price environment with 25% to 50% of our fuel volume hedged in the $90 to $130 WTI range.
At current expected market prices our second half fuel hedge portfolio performed better than the first half.
And at current prices we expect a $0.02 per gallon hedge benefit.
In the event prices rise from the current forward levels some will benefit from our fuel hedge protection.
Again all this is laid out in the sensitivity tables that were provided in this morning's release.
Our second half premium expense is estimated to be $27 million.
That brings our total 2012 premium cost to $45 million.
That compares to $114 million a year ago.
Turning to our nonfuel costs.
Our first quarter unit costs excluding fuel and special items were up 2% year-over-year on a combined basis.
This was better than the 4% increase that we expected primarily due to lower labor airport and other costs.
The milder winter weather certainly provided some unexpected benefit in both our labor cost and our winterization materials.
We did diverse some advertising spend and our airport cost benefited more than we anticipated from airport settlements.
As we look to the second quarter we're currently anticipating unit cost excluding fuel and profit-sharing to increase in the low to mid-single-digit range compared to second quarter of 2011's combined $0.0741 and likely at the rate that will exceed our first quarter 2% inflation.
The second quarter year-over-year increase is primarily driven by increased labor maintenance and airport cost.
Additionally our year-over-year increase also includes some unique items related to our fleet modernization plans.
In the second quarter we expect about a 1-point cabin impact from these initiatives.
Again just to remind you the Evolve retrofit for our 700 fleet is expected to increase our full year 2012 maintenance expense by about $50 million.
We expect about $14 million of that in the second quarter.
We also have some additional depreciation expense which is noncash due to the accelerated retirement of our [indiscernible] fleet and that's currently projected to be in the $50 million range in 2Q.
Our net interest expense for the year is expected to decrease by approximately $60 million on a combined basis due to paying down $1 billion of debt since our acquisition of AirTran on May 2 of last year.
And again as noted in our fuel discussion our fuel hedging premiums which were recorded in other gains and losses will be down approximately $70 million from 2011.
Our cash flow in the quarter was very strong.
We generated $1.2 billion of cash flow from operations and that resulted in $1.1 billion of free cash flow net of our capital spending during the quarter of $127 million.
Our cash and short-term investments at quarter end were $3.8 billion $3.9 billion as of close of business yesterday with full availability of our $800 million revolving credit facility.
The strong cash flow was driven in part by cash collateral from our hedge counterparties as well as a $720 million increase in our air traffic liability.
All-New Rapid Rewards continues to perform well with approximately $100 million in incremental cash sales from our business partners compared to first quarter of last year.
And as a reminder the vast majority of the business partner cash flows are still being deferred which is increasing our air traffic viability and those will be recognized in passenger revenues as more flights occur in the future.
During the quarter we repaid $431 million of debt.
And our leverage including the off-balance sheet leases the aircraft leases is approximately 46%.
We expect it to continue to decline modestly throughout the year.
Through the end of the first quarter we repurchased approximately 275 million or 33.2 million shares of LUV under our current 500 million authorization.
And for 2012 we still expect our capital spending to be in the $1.3 billion range.
For the remainder of the year we have very manageable scheduled debt maturities of approximately $130 million.
And again extremely pleased with the cash generation the first quarter which is typically the weakest quarter of the year.
And finally let me finish with a quick fleet and capacity overview.
We ended the first quarter with 694 active aircraft.
This does not include the first 2 Boeing 800 deliveries we took in March as they did not go into active service until this month.
We also had 4 retirements during the quarter.
They were all 300 and classics the 3 of those were lease returns.
And so far in April we've received another 800 and we have another 1 coming today.
And after today's delivery we'll have 29 more by year end.
We're still planning for 40 total retirements that will put our year-end fleet count at approximately 691.
We've completed 14 of the Evolve retrofits thus far and we expect to have the entire Southwest 700 fleet retrofitted by first quarter 2013.
The majority of that will occur this year.
In terms of our capacity plans our 2012 available seat miles forecast remains approximately flat with 2011.
And although we are increasing the gauge with the 800 which adds 38 more seats and we're adding additional seats to our 700 fleet with Evolve our 2012 trips are projected to be down 3% year-over-year.
That's heavily weighted to the back half with a 4% decrease in trips in 3Q and a 5% decrease in the fourth quarter.
And Tom with that I am ready to turn the call over to you to take questions from the audience.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just with respect to your seasonality of earnings just thinking about AirTran's earnings profile it seems like they made all their money in the June quarter.
So I mean is it fair to say some of what we're seeing here in the March quarter is just maybe a modestly more seasonal earnings stream for Southwest? Well they've got a pretty big footprint in Florida too.
But the -- first of all a lot of things have changed under the Southwest watch since a year ago with AirTran.
I think what is a fact is that we've been able to reduce their cost pretty significantly.
And as a consequence Bob gave you a very comprehensive report on their first quarter revenue performance.
But in addition to that the net effect was and you'll see this in the 10-Q their loss was worse a year ago than this year.
So we've been able to make some improvements on the AirTran performance.
But I thought that their revenue performance was better in the fourth quarter than it was in the first.
So there -- you may have a point there.
This is -- this business segment is new to us and it is a little different for us because it does have different drivers.
Their bag fees and dual-class services and things like that.
So I think that's possible.
But to be fair and I want to see if Laura or Bob have a different view I'm a little reluctant to guide you that way because I just don't feel like we have enough experience with that and we're going to continue to make a lot of changes to their network.
And again I would use the word radical.
There will be radical changes on an ongoing basis.
Ultimately I think it's going to look and feel like Southwest Airlines.
It will just take us 24 months here to get through this transition process.
Research Division</strong> And then just on April I wonder -- April looks like a modestly easier comp Laura so I wonder if you could give us any more detail in addition to the sort of slightly better than March's rate? And then how we should think about comps for the rest of the quarter? May for the industry is it tougher comps? And maybe could you walk us through some of the history of May last year and why that was so much stronger.
Yes so certainly where April as I noted to date is performing better on a year-over-year basis PRASM than what we reported for March.
If we look at April alone if you just look at it compared it to March on a sequential basis you would expect April on a nominal PRASM basis to be down from March.
And that's what we're seeing but it's right in line with historical expectations.
If we have to guide you for March we would say mid-to high single digits.
I mean April I'm sorry I'm getting my months turned around.
I think beyond April it's a little early to tell.
But certainly there's nothing that we're seeing in any of our bookings or trends that indicate anything that would be different sequentially just like we're seeing in April versus March.
Excuse me Gary or Bob if you have anything you want to add? Laura I would agree with everything you said.
And maybe just to say it a little bit different way.
The first quarter performance Duane sequentially compared to fourth looked very normal to us.
And if I remember correctly we do have easier -- first quarter a year ago was pretty darn strong.
Second quarter a year ago was a little off-trend.
So I think if that's what you're suggesting is that maybe we have some easier comps that's possible.
But in any event what we do know what's in the bank so to speak the first quarter performance was right in line with what we would have expected.
We're not seeing some of the dramatic year-over-year increases that some of our competitors are but a lot of that I think we earned -- that's in our more difficult comparisons.
So we're up dramatically over a multi-year period.
And feel very good about where our revenues are here at least in the first quarter.
And like all of us are saying so far April looks like it's more of the same a little bit better.
Before we take the next question could I correct make a correction from one of my statements with the audience? Go ahead.
Okay.
I noted an increase in depreciation of $50 million.
That is a full year 2012 impact not second quarter.
That makes a difference.
Yes.
My apologies.
And we'll move on to Mr.
Jim Parker with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Looks to me like there are 2 very significant sources of earnings growth underway at Southwest.
And the first of course is AirTran synergies which you have broken out.
Looks like those are on target.
The other source is fleet modernization plus adding the 6 seats.
Could you provide a bit of a timeline when we should be able to see those -- the positive impact become pronounced from those items that I think if we add all of those things together where something like I calculated $0.38 from share from fleet modernization plus the 6 seats? We are getting that Jim.
Yes so really no change to the numbers that we reported in our last quarter call.
The real benefits start in 2013.
We do expect to see some improvement in our 2012 earnings before tax.
The estimate was around $70 million this year.
Again more weighted to the back half of the year because we're really not seeing the benefit of the additional seats yet as of both the 800s and the Evolve come in.
In 2013 we'll have most of the Evolve in service for the full year and the contribution to EBT for 2013 is expected to be in the $300 million-plus range.
And then certainly 2014 which is when we'll have a substantial number of 800s and have the Evolve retrofit complete our forecast is EBT contribution in excess of $500 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just looking at your RASM year-to-year growth it is -- in this first quarter it trailed the A-for-A RASM growth by 3 percentage points and trailed last year in the last 3 quarters by looks like anywhere from 1 to 3 percentage points.
Can you provide a little bit of insight? And this is for domestic of course A-for-A why Southwest lags the performance of the industry? Well beyond what I've already said Jim which is we have seen significant increases in our revenues in 2010 and 2009 especially.
So we -- I would argue that we have harder comps.
We've definitely seen stronger revenue growth compared to A-for-A over the last 3 to 4 years.
The other thing I would quickly say is that we're still sub-optimized here between Southwest and AirTran.
And until we get AirTran fully converted fully merged fully integrated into Southwest Airlines that will be the case.
So I'm sure there are some network inefficiencies so to speak that are in there that perhaps comparing to A-for-A on an ongoing basis if we had it all merged together we could probably do a better job of scheduling our network.
But from a revenue management procedures and tools we've made good progress over the last several years.
We have more revenue management tools that are coming.
And I think it will improve our ability to better manage our revenues O&amp;D revenue management in particular something that is coming.
And then the network inefficiencies again are simply a matter of having 2 separate brands that obviously we'll get that addressed as well.
We'll take our next question from Bill Greene with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary I recognized you're trying to manage a lot of complex changes at Southwest and you've got a lot of strategic initiatives on the table.
So if we accept sort of the view that you mentioned here just now okay we're of course sub-optimized and we've got the tools that are going to serve and improve the situation when do you start to lose patience though with the inability of the company to kind of keep up with fuel? When do you say like we got to take a bolder action whether it's a capacity cut maybe we got to take a lead on fare increases? How much more patience do you sort of have? Is it a year because it's a 24-month integration? Or when do you sort of say okay that's it? Well I think it's premature to make that judgment today just because we do have so many things in progress that are all so promising.
And looking back over the last 5 years we've delivered against what we said we were going to do.
So I feel very confident that the company will deliver.
Just back to Laura's quick summary there on the fleet modernization 6 more seats is 6 more seats man.
So there are just no way around it and we're going to get more revenue as a consequence of that very modest incremental investment.
So that will come.
The new frequent flyer program we are generating already hundreds of millions of dollars additional -- and it doesn't burn jet fuel.
This is specifically related to our frequent flyer program.
It is in deferred revenue awaiting those customer.
So revenue benefit you'll see in the future with higher yields for free awards when they're flown compared to where we were with our R10 [ph].
So those are all very hard facts and will come along.
The outlook that we have as I mentioned to you if you look at just March April trends they are very different than the story that you might get from the first quarter.
And again I would argue that the first quarter result this year weren't materially different than last year despite a $200 million increase in the fuel bill.
So our outlook is good.
We have a lot of opportunities to optimize our network meaning eliminating nonperforming flights with a lot of opportunities to redeploy that capacity as opposed to grounding capacity or cutting capacity.
If we do reach the point where we need to cut capacity obviously we can do that.
We can simply accelerate the retirements of our fleet and manage it that way.
But no I'm confident about our plan.
And assuming fuel prices stay about where they are we don't see some right turn in the economy and I think we have a good outlook for the balance of 2012.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So just as a follow-up to the last comment they made there about sort of changing some of that capacity if you need to or addressing some of the flights 717s are they sort of a problem here at this fuel price? We've seen regional jet challenges maybe it's starting to affect some of the smaller jets even at a mainline level? Well I would certainly concede that they're not optimal.
And I think that's simply affirming what I've said now for well over 1 year which given these fuel prices the 717 doesn't really bring any additional value to Southwest that a 737 can't.
And arguably it's not as good just because if nothing else it's just a more complication -- it's more complicated to have an additional fleet type.
The fuel burn is good.
The mission for the airplane is short haul so it doesn't have the flexibility that a 737 has.
But as long as one can schedule it that way it works okay.
Bottom line on the economics and Investor Relations can show you all this they look fine.
Would we rather have 137 seats going to 143 versus 117? Well sure.
And so we -- and therefore we do have an effort underway to see if we can retire those aircraft from our fleet faster.
But in the meantime no I don't think it's a matter of us making money or losing money because of the 717.
That would be the wrong conclusion to reach.
Can we better optimize our fleet? Absolutely and that's what our objective is.
And we'll go next to Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Most airline managements and clearly the overwhelming majority of investors feel that American's standalone plan represents a clear and present danger to industry prosperity.
I'm wondering if you have a view as it relates to Southwest on this topic? Jamie you're coming in very faint.
I heard your question so just redirect if I'm not on point answering your question.
I think that at Southwest Airlines the competition that we face in the future is different than the competition that we faced over the last decade.
The fact that legacy carriers including American will be more cost-effective.
And at least in some legacy carriers' cases that's translated into profitability.
That makes them more formidable competitors.
So that doesn't really change our strategy per se but it certainly imposes the right discipline on us.
We've always taken the competition very seriously.
We've always had an underdog mentality and I do think that that is the right outlook.
You have a little bit different nuance to your question and I realize that.
I don't -- I'm simply answering your question from a perspective that I believe they will get their finances in order.
They'll get their cost down and they'll be a more formidable competitor because of that.
You seem to be suggesting that your concern or there are concerns that they will now behave in a way that is damaging and I don't have a comment on that.
Whatever they do is what they're going to do and we're simply preparing ourselves to have a more formidable competition in the future.
We're doing that in several ways.
We have initiatives to get our costs down.
We have initiatives to become more fuel-efficient.
We have initiatives to improve our customer experience and enhance the already glowing brand that we've earned.
And we intend to win.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And I'll speak up for my second question.
Earlier today you cited in an interview that I didn't catch you cited some consumer pushback to higher fares.
I'm wondering if you could add some detail.
What sort of markets were you referring to? What sort of AP requirements? Is this long haul short haul? Any additional granularity would help.
Jamie it was more of a macro comment and acknowledging that our load factor was off 1 point compared to a year ago.
And of course you and I both know that 1 point isn't all that insightful.
But after having multiple fare increases and being the expert airline at reducing fares and stimulating markets we know that there's price elasticity and obviously a resistance to fare increases.
So we do sense that -- and again considering that this is the weakest season of the year our customers were definitely shopping harder to get discount fares.
And you can see that in our mix which I think Laura reported on.
So I don't know that I would extrapolate much from that.
Whenever we can have unit revenue improvements of 5% which is what our PRASM was that's good.
There's nothing wrong with our revenue production in that sense.
I think the challenge obviously is that fuel prices demand more.
So yes I am concerned that we're seeing some consumer resistance and I don't think that it really -- I don't think there's any more granularity that I can offer up.
It feels to me like that's a systemic issue as opposed to some geographic region or length of haul issue.
And we'll go next to Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two questions here.
Laura I want to go back to -- on the costs for the quarter.
I mean the numbers came in -- they came in very good.
And I would say I think initially you were targeting up 4% ex fuel.
And I would say that that was sort of where the guidance was even in early March and I know you highlighted a couple of things that looked like that there were some good guys -- there's some stuff on lower revenue -- I mean lower advertising expense some stuff on labor.
And some of that would seem to be that you would have known about that earlier in the quarter.
You did mention some airport settlements.
Were there any sort of good guys that maybe came in -- related to that that came in late in the quarter and helped that number? Yes Mike I mean that's a fair question.
Certainly we were out in early March I think around March 6 or so when we gave that guidance.
We hadn't completely closed our books for February as well but we did see improvement more improvement in March.
We saw some in February as well.
But certainly weather had a big impact on our labor costs as well as just improved productivity.
We really did as we saw energy prices go up.
And we really put a call out to the field and all of our employees and leaders to respond and they did.
So our labor costs improved.
We had a lot of savings in winterization because as we continued throughout the quarter we continued to have really mild weather.
Airports did improve in March as well.
So I'm not sure -- and then advertising was actually less in March than we anticipated at that time as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then my second question and I don't know if this is for Bob or maybe Gary during this quarter we did see for the first time we had the opportunity where Southwest and AirTran were in some markets side by side.
And I'm curious just from observing where -- like a market like in Atlanta to Chicago or in Atlanta to a Baltimore.
What did -- and I realize it was only a few months.
But did you notice any sort of a difference in behavior with customers realizing that some of the flights there were charges for bag fees.
Some of the flights didn't have the fees.
Were you getting a revenue premium on the Southwest flights? I know you mentioned the fact that the response -- the customer response in Atlanta to the new flights was exceptional.
Was it that the Southwest flights were a lot more profitable than the AirTran flights despite the fact that there are no bag fees? I mean what can you tell us that you saw between the 2 products where they were operating in the same market? Mike let me give you my perspective and then Bob can be the closer here on the question.
First of all the Southwest is operating 15 daily departures something like that and soon to go to 26.
Those flights we compare to a typical new city startup and they are exceeding all of our pretty stout expectations.
So we are really really pleased with the subset of Southwest flights so Southwest brand and everything you would expect.
And we have a very successful launch of our service in Atlanta and we're very warmly received in the community.
And so all that I would just grade as an A+.
While we were doing that we were also adjusting the AirTran flight schedule.
So I don't remember the Chicago flights off the top of my head but I did have as an anecdote Atlanta to Houston.
And I've been spending some time in Houston so I've got that anecdote in my mind.
But we did reduce AirTran Houston flights in favor of adding Southwest flights.
So in other words in fairness to your question we did help Southwest along where we could by pulling some AirTran capacity out.
Moving over to the AirTran performance AirTran's Atlanta performance is also improved versus a year ago at the same time that we're introducing the Southwest service.
They are different brands with different products and we -- I'm sure that we have some customers who are challenging the difference in the brands but it is certainly nothing that -- from a broader management perspective it is not an issue.
I'm very confident that we'll be able to get from here to fully integrated without any material problems.
And most of it because of what Bob Jordan said earlier.
The AirTran people are doing a phenomenal job of running that business unit outstanding on-time performance great customer service #1 in baggage handling most months.
So they're just continuing to do a terrific job.
Bob is there anything...
Well Mike I would just add yes the same thing.
Where we have moved in overlap markets we've moved out maybe a few AirTran flights in favor of Southwest.
There are no noticeable changes.
So the improvement year-over-year in AirTran the improvement year-over-year in Southwest is showing up in those markets.
And then a good example would be some of the new international adds and it's very early.
We just started the Denver-Cancun but we've got bookings in some of the others.
Some of those flights are coming out of cities where AirTran has very little domestic presence.
And even in that case those new international AirTran flights are booking up pretty strong.
So again I think it's the AirTran people.
It's putting the flights into the right markets where we know there's going to be success.
But we've not seen any -- in my mind we've not seen any issue in being able to maintain the integrity of the AirTran service while maintaining the integrity of the Southwest service on those overlap markets.
And we'll go next to Glenn Engel with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One can you please give ASMs by quarter? Yes.
Let me get those Glenn.
Can you ask your second question while...
Research Division</strong> The second question I have is on -- when would you expect your computers to allow you to cross-sell AirTran? I think you pictured out sometime next year but I wasn't sure what part of the year.
And two if you can't cross-sell wouldn't that suggest that your revenue synergy target gets pushed out as well? The target for calling it codesharing for lack of a better description was the first half of '12 and we pushed that to 2013.
I'm not ready to give you a date yet because I don't have one that I'm confident in.
Research Division</strong> You won't even say first half of 2013? I won't.
It is a -- for several reasons.
Number one I can actually make a case that for business reasons we may not want to codeshare sooner than later.
We have 11 aircraft that are converting in 2012 and that will have minimal impact to the AirTran network.
We will be converting roughly 60-some-odd aircraft next year so that's where we'll really need the facilitation if you will of the codesharing to make that conversion from an AirTran market more rapidly to a Southwest market.
The profit effect is probably negligible.
There's no doubt that we'll pick up some revenues.
But you're also going to -- because the brands are so different you're going to confuse the brand.
And we'll have to deal with fees that AirTran charges and on a codeshare itinerary obviously we're not going to charge a bag fee.
So I don't know if it's $1 for $1 tradeoff there.
But another way to think about it Glenn is to say if you were to challenge us and say how are you going to recover the $300 million worth of fees that AirTran collects I would tell you that yes I think that that will be a takeaway and at least during this transition period we'll make it up with codeshare.
So on a net-net basis I just don't believe you're going to see a material profit benefit.
Finally said a third way the $400 million worth of synergies that we all keep talking about are not counting on a net benefit from codeshare.
The benefit is from moving away from the AirTran brand to a pure Southwest brand where there's a superior revenue performance.
It is our priority by the way on technology and our technology folks have done a phenomenal job of delivering on a whole list of projects.
We've deferred this one.
But our priority will be implementing the necessary technology to support international service.
So that will be our top priority.
What is now in place and I'm very pleased with of course is the support for the 737-800 and the multi-fleet technology capabilities.
So all that is in place and we'll work hard to make hay out of all of those investments.
Glenn here's the ASMs by quarter.
So for 2Q our year-over-year ASMs will be down between 1% and 2%.
For the third quarter the ASMs will be down approximately 1% and we currently expect 4Q to be flat with last year.
And we'll take our next question from David Fintzen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a question for Laura on the cost side.
I think last quarter for 2012 you had said a modest CASM ex-fuel growth.
Just curious given the 2Q guidance is that sort of the high watermark for year-over-year growth in ex-fuel costs? Or is that sort of carried through into the second half? Just any color there.
Yes.
No I think the guidance that we gave for 2Q which is low to mid-single digit is in line with the full year guidance at this point again all of the -- I just gave the ASMs to Glenn.
So with ASMs down in 2Q and 3Q that certainly provides some pressure.
We've got the fleet investments.
But I would look at the full year similar to the guidance that I gave for 2Q.
And one thing about that is it's somewhat of a transition year for us.
While some of the cost inflation that you're seeing in 2012 we can't fairly assign that to the AirTran integration but it is related in a large degree to our fleet modernization.
So these are some upfront costs.
If you want to think about it that way that will have very significant cost and revenue benefits in the future.
Research Division</strong> Are there very specific 800 implementation costs that sort of you hit upfront like ETOPS et cetera that we just don't -- I mean is that the kind of thing you're talking about just for clarity? I think it's not really.
That's not material in terms of operating expenses.
The cost of the Evolve retrofit is all expensed and that's about $50 million for the full year of 2012.
So that will be included in our maintenance line item again as a really quick payback and that's going to come on the revenue line.
And we also have some additional expense based on our decision to retire our classics earlier than we had previously planned.
But again the economics of the replacement aircraft with a better fuel burn and maintenance and so forth it's a very good return.
You're just seeing some of the costs to doing that hit in P&amp;L.
Depreciation is an example.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That subtly sounded like there's something else there.
I think they're all things you know but it's just to acknowledge with you that there is some cost effect of that in '12.
But of course a lot of the fleet modernization just to repeat what Laura just said a lot of the fleet modernization efforts will result in lower cost as time goes by lower fuel burn lower maintenance cost and so this is a bit of a transition year cost-wise on the fleet.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just quickly I know there's a lot of change going on this year.
In terms of how you're deploying capacity seasonally is there anything sort of changing or anything as you're going through the AirTran integration that allows you to maybe move some things around seasonally in ways that you couldn't in the past? Then what would be the impediments to really sort of flipping airplanes around more through the year? I think that's a terrific question.
It's somewhat related to Bill Greene's question earlier.
We definitely need more flexibility in our business.
And today we schedule the airline on a hard schedule Monday through Thursday and then there are variations on Friday different schedule on Saturday different schedule on Sunday.
So we need more than that.
And I think January February in particular are challenging months and we probably -- what we would like is to find some better scheduling technique for that seasonality.
So the short answer to your question is we completely agree with you.
We're a different airline today than we were 5 much less 10 years ago in terms of dealing with seasonality.
We definitely have seasonal service.
So there are city pairs that are scheduled some times of the year and not all year long.
Orlando in particular is probably the most dramatic where we actually have -- unlike any other city in our system that I can think of Bob we have more flights on a Saturday than we have on other days of the week.
So we're doing what you asked.
We're just not doing as much as I would like.
Some of that is capability-wise and some of it is just the business judgment that we're not quite ready to be as radical as perhaps we could.
But it's definitely something with fuel prices the way they are.
You just can't afford to fly airplanes that aren't profitable.
So we are definitely -- we definitely have the same mindset that you do.
And ladies and gentlemen we have time for one more question.
We'll take our last question from Ray Neidl with the Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 very general things I wanted to address Gary.
The first I know you're still committed to  the no charge for baggage fees.
You think it's revenue positive for the company.
But it seems with some other airlines the travelers have changed their behavior and they pack much lighter now saving on fuel costs.
I know you're very concerned about your fuel situation.
Could that be another side of the benefit that you haven't really looked at yet? Well all of that may be true.
If the bag still ends up on the airplane it's just upstairs instead of downstairs.
I don't know that it's a fuel savings but if people bring less I think that that is a credible argument.
We've just made huge progress with our revenue production compared to the rest of the industry since they started charging for bags.
I mean the evidence here -- you're an analyst go look.
It is absolutely indisputable.
So I think it gives us a significant competitive advantage.
We've never had higher brand rankings and continuing -- obviously we're continuing to invest in our customer experience so that we not only keep what we've earned but win more customers.
I think we have a huge opportunity to win more business customers.
So yes you know that we're not wavering Ray on our desire to have no hidden fees.
And again I think that the evidence is very clear that that's revenue positive for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally broadly with AirTran and Southwest and integration not happening fully to 2014 you will be doing some international routes with AirTran.
And then with the Hobby situation you've made it clear you want to start doing some international routes out of Hobby.
Can you expand that? Are those 2 things one independent of each other? And Number two would you expand international services beyond Hobby and AirTran routes and maybe even investigate trying to get the law changed so you could do international routes out of Love Field in Dallas and some other cities? Well on your last question the answer is absolutely not.
We've got an agreement that we will honor so we would not do that with the right amendment.
On the Hobby situation I don't think you're thinking about it incorrectly.
The only thing I wanted to share with you all today is I know that that topic is in the news and it is a significant undertaking by Southwest and one that we think is important that the Hobby airport system proposal is that international service would be readied by 2015.
So I think that that answers your question.
So AirTran in other words would not have an opportunity to serve Hobby internationally before that.
The airport won't be ready.
They need to build gates.
They need to build an international facility.
They need to have customs and all of that kind of stuff.
And that's what Houston and their airport system are undertaking.
So the airport has proposed that Hobby add international service.
We've told them that we're very interested in that and that work is underway.
So AirTran would not be a player most likely in that whole discussion if that makes sense to you.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom and thank all of you for joining us today.
And of course if you have any follow-up questions we are available this afternoon.
Thanks and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Ginger Hardage Senior Vice President of Culture and Communications.
Thank you Tom and we thank everyone for being on the call today.
We'd like to now switch over and have questions from the news media for Gary Laura or Bob.
So if you would give the instructions for queuing up that would be great.
[Operator Instructions] We will now begin with our first question from Terry Maxon with the Dallas Morning News.
Elaborate on the Amadeus contract if you will.
Can we presume that if the international capability works well for you that this will become your new reservation provider for all reservations? I'm a little reluctant to just say yes to that just because it's hard to anticipate what might happen what might change over the next 3 years that would cause us to feel differently.
But clearly we're going to be going through a lot of effort with Amadeus to implement this module if you want to think about it that way.
And if it works well for us we'll obviously take a very hard look at domestic.
And we've admitted that.
I mean why go to all this trouble to work with Amadeus with the thought that you're not going to continue to do business with them in a broader way? So we're going to -- we're positioned where we can take advantage of that and if things go well then perhaps that'll be our decision.
All right.
And will this capability work side by side with your existing system or will they be in effect 2 completely different systems with no real talking between the 2 of them your domestic and what Amadeus will provide for you on the international side? Well you know what a technology expert I am Maxon so I will step right out there.
But it's -- one way or the other it has to be integrated in with the rest of our systems.
But I think it's safe to say that this piece will probably be set aside from our domestic reservation system.
Is that fair Bob? Do you want to clean that up? Yes Terry obviously they're all passenger records and the systems have to talk.
So there is a -- there'll be a period of time where Navitaire which is the AirTran system Sabre which is our current RES platform and Amadeus which will be the international platform are all talking to each other.
That's all contemplated in the plan.
And obviously then as we move on through the AirTran integration and then make our ultimate RSR decision we'll be back to one system over a period of years here.
But yes they will talk to each other to pass passenger information back and forth just to enable a really good customer experience for our international passengers.
And it should all be transparent to our customers.
Yes.
All right.
It sounded kind of Rube Goldberg but that's -- but everything at technology is beyond my ken so...
We're both dinosaurs Maxon.
We'll take our next question from Jack Nicas with The Wall Street Journal.
Real quick first question.
Pro forma net income for first quarter of 2012 -- for 2011.
I didn't see that in the release today.
Do you guys have that? Are you talking about combined income with AirTran? Yes.
Yes it is not.
So under GAAP rules we only include the impact of AirTran from the date that we acquired them which is May 2 forward.
So the comparisons do not include prior year.
Now we do provide certain statistics that are on a combined basis and I believe we go down the operating income on a combined basis so we don't go down to net income.
AirTran actually did not ever report their first quarter results last year.
They were just in that period where because of the acquisition they were never required to file a first quarter's 10-Q.
But we got an operating income which I believe I pointed out -- that was $86 million this year.
Right I do see that.
Did you find that combined income statement? Yes I certainly have the combined statement with the operating income but just without the net income I feel like it's tough to make a true comparison.
But does the 10-Q will have something in addition to that? No this is all you'll see.
So yes so on Page 17 you can see that there was an operating loss at AirTran of $29 million.
Now if you just want to go look at some of their performance prior to that you will note that they have expenses below the operating loss line for interest expense and those types of things as well which have never been reported.
Okay.
Now we're hearing sort of that there may be some plans to lease some AirTran 717s to Delta Air Lines.
Is there any truth to that? Well we don't comment on rumors.
I think that that one cleanly fits within the definition of a rumor.
If you were listening to -- I just don't want to be repetitive for you but if you listened to our analyst call there's no secret that we are working hard to modernize our fleet which is a euphemism for saying that we're retiring aircraft that we would prefer not to have in the fleet in lieu of replacing them with next-generation 737 either 800s or 700s.
The 737 classics fall into that category as do the 717s.
So we are in a retirement phase.
Currently we're retiring 737 classics.
If we can find a home for the 717s then we would -- assuming that we can reach the right economics then we'll consider retiring those aircraft from our fleet earlier.
Today we have a fleet of 698 airplanes.
88 of those 698 are the 717s.
So I'm sure you can quickly surmise that we would prefer to have all 737s.
And 717 is a great airplane.
Again it certainly will do the mission for us.
It's just a little bit more complexity to have a different fleet type and we don't really get much benefit by having the unique 717.
So in fairness to your question we're certainly open to retiring the 717s from our fleet early.
Okay understood.
And just real quick I believe some Atlanta flights that were converted to Southwest had to be converted back to AirTran recently.
Could you just elaborate what happened there? I think it's very simple.
We are lining up several things.
One is the physical conversion of airplanes.
Obviously for us to launch Southwest flights we need airplanes in the Southwest configuration.
For us with our integration it's more complicated than many airlines because our airlines are so different.
So we're all coach.
AirTran has business class.
They assign seats.
They charge fees.
We don't.
So there's a number of things that have to line up physically on the airplane side.
Next all of the technology that connects our 2 networks needs to line up with some of the conversions of these flights as well and we have elected to defer both.
We've elected to defer some of the airplane conversions to beyond 2012 and we've elected to defer some of this technology beyond 2012.
Our priority as we said earlier is to get our international capabilities with Amadeus up and running in particular as well as launch the 737-800 flights.
And we'll take our next question from Kiah Collier with the Houston Chronicle.
Gary I was hoping you could go into more detail about Southwest's campaign for the Hobby project.
Just what exactly is the game plan especially after the Houston City Council's kind of skeptical reaction this week to the study showing that the project would be kind of an economic boon for the Houston region? From what I understand you still have no lobbyist registered with the city.
Is that part of the plan? Or what exactly is the plan? What is our campaign plan? Right right.
Just more details about what exactly you all are doing.
Well I think we've got a pretty straightforward approach here which is -- we are supportive of what the Houston Airport System has proposed.
They have asked us if we would be willing to launch international service.
And our whole focus is on Houston at this point so we are working with the city council.
We're working with the mayor.
We're working with the airport to answer their questions.
As you know we have put forward our commitment to guarantee debt if that's necessary to issue bonds to construct the new facilities.
And you've obviously learned today that we've announced what our international technology solution is as well.
So we're fully committed to launching international service in Southwest Airlines number one.
We would -- we see a wonderful opportunity to lower fares and add flights and destinations in Houston through Hobby airport number two.
And we are making ourselves available to answer whatever questions there might be to -- in order to launch that service.
So we'll work hard to get our message out both with the city council the mayor the airport but also with our customers and our fans in the Houston area just so they know what it is we're trying to accomplish so that we have their support.
Okay.
Can you go into a little bit more detail maybe this is a question for Bob just about how international flights and service kind of are part of your future with AirTran just how it fits into the division of a merged carrier in the future? Well right now we have 9 international destinations at AirTran with just a handful of daily departures.
So it's a relatively small component of AirTran.
AirTran will wind down as a brand over the next several years so by the time you get to 2015 AirTran is no longer relevant to the conversation.
It will be all Southwest Airlines.
And by that time Southwest Airlines will be flying the international flights that AirTran had that we choose to move over to Southwest.
So nothing is guaranteed at this point.
But from Southwest -- so at that point in time we're talking about Southwest.
So from our perspective we see some wonderful opportunities to expand our domestic footprint in the 48 states beyond the borders and especially South to Latin America.
So we are -- and we see Houston as a wonderful opportunity to focus our international activities at least in Texas.
There are about 137 daily departures today at Houston Hobby.
We're hopeful that we could add a dozen or 2 to that and serve international markets at least that's from this vantage point what we're thinking about.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next Kelly Yamanouchi with the Atlanta Journal Constitution.
I was wondering how long you want to or how long can you maintain the bag fees on AirTran given what you discussed about you can make up for it with incremental revenue from codesharing in the future.
Well Kelly certainly for this year it's -- again AirTran's business is very solid.
Their financial performance has actually improved versus a year ago.
They're doing an outstanding job of serving our AirTran customers.
These things can't be pieced apart.
So they have a nice product.
They have a nice brand.
They have a fair structure that includes fees and that will continue until it gets converted to Southwest Airlines.
And we'll take our next question from David Koenig with The Associated Press.
A real quick one.
What is your current estimate of the percentage of your passengers who are business versus leisure? And then how is that number or ratio is changing if it is? David I think here -- I don't know that we can give you a real finite answer to that.
But over -- so it's more -- over time we see the trends pretty consistent.
But I would put our business travel at no less than 35% probably no more than 40%.
And it's been there for quite some time.
We're obviously very hopeful that -- we carry a lot of business customers as I know you've heard me argue over the years just because we carry so many customers nationwide.
So we're arguably the largest carrier in the United States of business travelers.
But I do see an opportunity for us to win more and that's why we've invested in an all new frequent flyer program and are investing in some of the other customer amenities that we've added.
But I don't see that that number has changed.
The only caveat is the AirTran mix is I would argue is less than that and that's the opportunity that we have with the acquisition.
Yes thank you Laura.
So Dave that's an important point.
So that really is the Southwest business.
AirTran we're pretty confident that their business mix is probably less than 25%.
We'll take our next question from Andy Compart with Aviation Week.
Just to clarify one thing quickly and then I'll ask my question.
But on the bag fee and the change fee et cetera at AirTran it's going to be 24 months to have the Sabre conversion.
So you're expecting the fees to remain in place until sometime in 2014 if I understand that how you're explaining it.
But secondly Gary you said during the call and I believe this was regarding AirTran's network that there will be radical changes on an ongoing basis.
And I'd like to see more clarity on what you mean by radical changes.
What are you foreseeing there? And what areas do you see these changes and what will make them radical? Well without attempting to be too colorful it's really just -- and that's not a new statement.
We're changing our routes.
We're changing cities.
We're adding and subtracting -- there's just -- what you have with AirTran today is not what you're going to have with those airplanes when they're integrated into Southwest Airlines.
So it'll be a very different route network.
If nothing else the hub-and-spoke system that they currently operate in Atlanta we won't do that.
We'll have our typical point-to-point network established and we've already laid the groundwork for that with the Southwest Airlines' launch.
But AirTran has already announced that it's closing 15 locations this year as one example to what I was referring to.
And that capacity they're very small cities in operations.
But there is capacity that becomes available as a consequence of that and that's what Bob Jordan was reporting earlier that they're redeploying those flights to new international destinations that we think will be very successful for us.
So we're opening up Cabo San Lucas on AirTran Mexico City on AirTran and connecting -- and also I guess adding some new U.S.
cities to those international destinations.
Orange County California is a new city for AirTran as is Austin Texas.
And those will be serving our international markets.
San Antonio I believe for the first time will also be getting international AirTran service and that's Cancun Mexico City.
So a lot -- I consider that to be pretty radical.
But again when this is all done in 2014 then it'll be a very different route system for these 140 airplanes.
Okay.
And the bag fee is until 2014? AirTran will have bag fees.
So as long as AirTran is out there marketing as AirTran it will have its business class its fare structure its fee structure.
And ladies and gentlemen we have time for one more question today.
And we'll take our last question is from Rich Rovito with The Business Journal Milwaukee.
Gary just with all the changes that are happening in Mitchell Airport here in Milwaukee specifically Frontier's decision to scrap its hub operation here currently AirTran and Southwest now have about 50% of the market share at Mitchell.
But what are your thoughts on the Milwaukee market? And is Frontier's decision to essentially drastically cut service here open up some more opportunities for AirTran and Southwest? Well I'm excited about Milwaukee.
I think Milwaukee is a wonderful city and I was delighted when we finally made the decision to serve Milwaukee.
I think that was in 2009 and we've had great success since then.
The acquisition of AirTran obviously accelerates the Southwest brand in that market by the time we get to 2014.
So we're very excited about that.
Milwaukee is a great market.
San Antonio is an example.
It's one of our original Southwest cities and we have about 50 daily departures in San Antonio.
So I have every reason to believe that Milwaukee will be at least that.
So we are obviously mindful of what our competitors do in the market.
Clearly if they pull flights out that gives us an opportunity to consider expanding.
It requires more research than just a casual view though because we all don't serve the same cities.
But clearly if we have competitors that pull out of our city pair markets that's an opportunity for us to quickly win more customers.
And we'll do our best to serve your community very well.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over for any additional or closing remarks.
Well great.
Thank you so much everyone for being on the call today.
We're sorry we ran out of time.
We know we have some additional people in the queue and we'll do whatever we can to assist you in getting those answers.
So if you want to follow up please call (214) 792-4847 and we our communications team are standing by to assist in getting those answers for you.
And we have no additional comments at this time but again thank you for being on the call.
And this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I'll be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's call to discuss our second quarter results.
Joining me on the call today is Gary Kelly Southwest Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; and Laura Wright Senior Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will begin with opening comments from Gary followed by Bob providing an update on the AirTran integration and operations and then followed by Laura providing a review of our second quarter results and current outlook.
As a quick reminder prior-year consolidated results include AirTran results beginning May 2 the date of the acquisition.
In order to provide what we believe to be a more meaningful year-over-year comparison on today's call we will also be discussing specified current results and providing outlook commentary on a combined basis as defined in this morning's press release.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results such as combined results and results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you Marcy and good morning everyone and thank you all for joining us.
We are very pleased with our second quarter financial performance.
Excluding items second quarter profits of $273 million is an all-time quarterly record.
It's up 126% year-over-year.
Earnings per share of $0.36 is also an all-time record and it's up 140% year-over-year and also $0.03 ahead of Wall Street estimates.
The sluggish economy was no help.
High fuel prices were no help although they at least were lower than the first quarter.
But I give all the credit to our people at Southwest and AirTran.
And once again they did a great job of running a very high-quality airline with solid on-time performance excellent baggage handling outstanding schedule reliability.
And at the same time our people at both airlines are doing an exceptional job of integrating AirTran and our people have done an extraordinary job of rolling out a lot of new initiatives like our All-New Rapid Rewards program the Boeing 737-800 the Evolve seating retrofit for our 700s and a number of other initiatives.
And in particular as we outlined in the release today the AirTran integration is very much on track.
The AirTran business was a significant contributor to our second quarter profit record.
A couple of things to note there: First I'm very proud of our team's efforts to get a deal with Delta and Boeing to replace all of the Boeing 717s and retire them from our fleet by the end of 2015.
The operational and cost benefits are obvious with an all-Boeing-737 fleet.
But the revenue benefits are huge given that we've got 26 more seats with the 737 at essentially the same trip cost as the 717.
So after gathering up all the one-time accounting charges for this deal in 3Q the ongoing rental expense versus sublease income is essentially awash once we start delivering the 717s to Delta.
And Laura is going to cover all of that in more detail in a few moments.
And further we have significant technology work underway related to the AirTran integration.
Our top priority is an international reservation system implementation that's on track for a 2014 deployment.
Next is the systems capability at both airlines to connect the networks and the itineraries and that work is on track for our first quarter 2013 deployment.
In addition to core AirTran profits that acquisition is contributing profit synergies in line with our expectations and we continue to target $400 million in synergies from that for 2013 which is more than double the current run rate that we have.
Still related to AirTran each airline continues to make aggressive but prudent schedule changes.
International cities are being added in AirTran.
Small cities that don't fit the Southwest model in this high-fuel-cost environment are being closed.
During the second quarter Southwest picked up additional slots at Washington Reagan.
We received authorization from the City of Houston City Council to proceed with an international facility at Hobby Airport and that's targeted for 2015.
And work at Dallas Love Field is on target on schedule and on budget and all of that is in anticipation of the full Wright Amendment repeal in October of 2014.
So needless to say there's a lot going on at Southwest.
It is already bringing significant shareholder value and there's a lot more to come over the next several years.
I want to thank our Board of Directors for their hard work and their devotion to driving shareholder value.
In May they increased our authorization to repurchase shares to $1 billion of which half of that repurchase has been completed.
And they also more than doubled the quarterly dividend to $0.01 a share.
Our strong cash flow our leverage is low our annualized return on invested capital for this quarter actually exceeded our 15% requirement.
And so you can see why the board took these actions by all of these strong positions and strong performances.
And then finally while we remain cautious about the domestic economy our business seems to be holding up well.
Fuel prices at least right now are no higher than they were in the second quarter and hopefully they will be lower this quarter.
But we're keeping our capacity roughly flat this year and next until we're comfortable with our earnings performance hitting our 15% return on invested capital target.
And of course this quarter's results were a great step forward in that regard.
So Bob without further ado I'll turn it over to you.
Well thank you Gary and thanks everyone for joining us.
I'm really pleased to give you a report on AirTran.
We continue to make great progress on the integration front.
Five AirTran 737s have been converted to the Southwest delivery and we've got another one in progress.
We plan to transition 11 737 this year and the majority of the remaining 41 we will transition in 2014 once international capabilities are in place in Southwest.
As Gary mentioned the recent agreement with Delta and Boeing Capital to transition out of the AirTran 717s is a great deal for us.
While that was not anticipated at the start of the acquisition the opportunity to replace 717 flying with 737 flying offers -- that offers significantly more seats.
And therefore of course revenue opportunity at essentially the same trip cost makes just perfect economic sense for us.
The first 717s will transition in August of 2013 with the entire fleet exiting by the end of 2015.
On the labor front the majority of our unions have seniority integration agreements in place and we're making really good progress on the 2 that remain.
We continue to transition AirTran employees to Southwest.
The first groups of AirTran pilots and flight attendants have completed their moves and over 1 000 AirTran employees have transitioned to Southwest and that number is rising each and every month.
Airport transitions continue with ground operations folks beginning that transition at 6 stations last month.
And AirTran's operations in Seattle and Des Moines fully convert to Southwest this quarter.
Of course optimizing the combined networks continues to be a major focus.
We added several new AirTran international markets to the roadmap during the second quarter and those were primarily funded through redeploying capacity from closed small cities.
And I'm just very pleased with the performance of those new markets.
They all look very strong.
And I'm extremely pleased and thrilled that the Houston City Council cleared the way for Southwest to build a new 5-gate international terminal at Hobby Airport.
Construction there is planned to begin next year with flying to destinations such as Mexico the Caribbean and cities in Central and South America beginning in 2015.
We're making great progress towards implementing connecting capabilities during the first quarter of 2013 as Gary mentioned and that of course opens up significant opportunities in the combined Southwest-AirTran networks ahead of full integration.
On the operation front the AirTran operation continues to perform very very well.
They are posting stellar DOT results in all 3 categories.
For example in May which is the most recent month of results published AirTran ranked first in the category of customer complaints second in mishandled bags and third in on-time performance overall.
So I'm just extremely pleased with the operation at AirTran and cannot be more proud of our people there.
Overall AirTran's business continues to improve solidly year-over-year.
And while still underperforming Southwest revenues on a nominal unit basis positive RASM and yield trends continue.
We realized net synergies in the first half of this year of approximately $80 million and our plan continues to call for reaching $400 million total pretax synergies in 2013 based of course on our current network and fleet plans.
So in summary I am very pleased with our integration progress and timing.
Our synergies are on track the 717 deal is a great long-term deal for the company.
And the AirTran folks are posting stellar operational results.
And I think that's pretty darn good and I'm very proud of our AirTran folks and their excellent work.
And with that I'm going to turn it over to Laura Wright to walk us through the details.
Thank you Bob and good morning or afternoon everyone.
Excluding special items our second quarter operating profits was an all-time record quarterly performance of $485 million.
Revenue was solid throughout the quarter producing record revenue results and our nonfuel operating costs came in better than expected.
Although fuel prices on average were still very high we benefited from the decline in market prices that occurred during the quarter as evidenced by a roughly $60 million decrease in our economic fuel cost compared to both the second quarter of last year as well as to our expectations back in May.
We also have a $28 million year-over-year reduction in our non-operating expenses excluding special items and all-in this led to a net income of $273 million excluding special items or $0.36 per diluted share both quarterly records.
For the 12 months ended June 30 our pretax return on invested capital was 8%.
And as Gary pointed out our June quarter as stand-alone results exceeded the 15% annual target.
And overall I would reiterate Gary and Bob's comments that we're very pleased with the second quarter results particularly the improvements from a year ago.
Our passenger revenues increased over $400 million or 11.5% from last year's $3.9 billion.
And on a combined basis our passenger revenue is still a solid 5.1%.
On a unit basis passenger revenues were up 6.4% versus combined results and total unit revenues grew 6%.
Our PRASM strength came primarily from our yields.
They were up 6.7% on a combined basis.
And as Bob noted we continued to significantly improve AirTran's year-over-year revenue performance.
However on a nominal unit basis we still have significant synergy opportunities yet to be realized on AirTran's network.
Southwest's mix of full-fare passengers was 17% which was slightly down from first quarter's 18%.
However business traffic indicators that we monitor suggest that our business traffic has remained steady.
Our Business Select fare product contributed approximately $25 million in incremental revenues in the quarter and our Wright Amendment revenues also continue to contribute significantly.
We had $74 million of incremental revenues in the second quarter from Wright Amendment.
Our 800s and Evolve flights which were just introduced in the second quarter are already producing great results and they contributed millions collectively in 2Q '12.
All-New Rapid Rewards continues to perform well.
We had approximately $75 million incremental cash sales from our business partners compared to the second quarter of last year.
And cumulatively our business partner cash sales from our frequent flyer program increased in excess of $300 million for the 12 months ended June 12 compared to the 12 months ended June 2011.
While the vast majority of this is still being deferred from a P&amp;L perspective thereby increasing our air traffic liability we did recognize about $50 million additional incremental passenger revenue from the frequent-flier business partner sales in the second quarter '12 over last year.
Thus far our July passenger unit revenue growth was solid.
We do not expect our July passenger unit revenues to be up as much as June's 6% year-over-year increase due to softer July 4 holiday traffic which is to be expected when July 4 falls in the middle of the week.
Our bookings in place thus far for the quarter look good and overall we expect another solid third quarter unit revenue performance but do not expect the year-over-year growth to exceed second quarter's 6%.
Our freight and other revenues were in line with our expectation.
And we currently expect that our third quarter freight and other revenues will decrease slightly from the third quarter 2011 freight and other revenues primarily due to AirTran's fees trending lower year-over-year as their capacity is moved over to Southwest.
Our second quarter economic fuel price per gallon was $3.22 and that was down a $0.05 from the prior year combined.
The $3.22 includes a net $0.04 unfavorable cash settlement from the lock-in losses from our legacy hedging portfolio.
Our premiums in the quarter were $12 million that's down from $26 million in the prior year.
And our economic fuel costs were up $0.13 per gallon better than the last guidance that we provided in mid-May of $3.35.
And that was really due to the $6 drop in oil prices since that time.
At current market prices we expect that our third quarter economic fuel price including taxes will be in the $3.05 to $3.10 per gallon range.
That's based on the July 17 forward pricing.
This estimate includes an estimated $0.03 per gallon fuel hedging penalty and again this relates to the lock-in losses from the legacy hedging portfolio.
Our third quarter hedge does provide protection if WTI prices average above $100 per barrel as illustrated in this morning's press release.
However we also participate in the third quarter fully and following prices until we reach WTI prices below $75 per barrel.
Again this is illustrated in this morning's press release.
Our third quarter premium expense is also expected to be about $17 million and that's down from $36 million last year.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 and looking out into 2013 our current hedge portfolio provides a meaningful protection in the rising fuel price environment again with that protection kicking in at $100 of WTI oil price and above.
In the event prices drop from current forward levels we will continue to participate in lower fuel prices fully until we hit at $75 per barrel WTI price in the fourth quarter as well as 2013.
Our second quarter unit costs excluding fuel and special items were up 4.3% year-over-year on a combined basis.
And excluding profit-sharing we're up 2.7%.
This was better than we expected and that was primarily due to lower maintenance airport depreciation and advertising costs.
Maintenance was less than expected due to fewer Evolve seating conversions and fewer heavier maintenance events than planned.
Our airport costs benefited more than we anticipated from airport settlements we received during the quarter.
And depreciation came in lower due to some of the changes we had in our aircraft retirement schedule.
And finally advertising was under planned as we deferred some of the spend that we had previously planned for the second quarter to the back half of 2012.
For the third quarter of 2012 we're currently anticipating our nonfuel unit costs excluding special items and profit-sharing will increase in the mid to high single-digit range compared to third quarter 2011's $0.0727.
While we've had more modest cost increases in the first half of this year than expected we do anticipate higher costs in the back half primarily from maintenance including Evolve airport costs depreciation and the deferred advertising.
We remain focused on controlling our core costs with significant opportunities ahead with our fleet modernization plans.
On the non-operating cost side we have significant year-over-year improvement.
Our net interest expense for 2012 is expected to be down by $70 million on a combined basis due to paying down about $1 billion of debt.
And as noted in the fuel discussion our 2012 fuel hedging premiums which are recorded in other gains and losses are expected to be down approximately $65 million from 2011.
Let me provide a quick recap of our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our cash and short-term investments at quarter end were $3.3 billion and as of yesterday were $3.7 billion.
For the first 6 months of the year we had $1.4 billion of cash flow from operations and over $800 million of free cash flow.
Our leverage including our off-balance sheet aircraft leases is approximately 45% and is expected to decline at the low 40% range by year end.
And from August of 2011 through the end of the second quarter we purchased approximately 500 million or 59 million shares of Southwest common stock under our current $1 billion authorization at an average price of $8.44.
I'll move to fleet and capacity.
We had 14 737 Classics retirements during the second quarter 3 of these were lease returns and the remainder owned aircraft ending the quarter with 695 active aircraft.
Of the 34 800 deliveries planned this year there are 15 remaining.
And we're still planning for 40 total Classic retirements this year which will put our fleet count around 692 at year end.
In terms of our capacity plans our 2012 available seat miles will be comparable to 2011's combined ASMs.
For 2013 we don't plan to grow the fleet and we're planning for modest capacity growth compared to 2012.
Although we are increasing the aircraft gauge in 2013 with 800s and the additional 6-seats on our 700s we have capacity offsets with planned Classic and 717 retirements.
And currently our capacity for the first quarter is expected at 2013 is expected to be relatively flat to slightly down year-over-year.
I will end with an update on the current status of our fleet modernization initiative.
Back in January you'll remember that we provided estimates for EBIT contribution over the next 3 years as a result of our fleet initiatives.
Since then we've made a few changes.
We announced a $1 billion of deferral of capital spending in new airplanes.
And most recently we announced that we will sublease or lease all 88 of AirTran's 717s to Delta.
Replacing AirTran's 717 flying with 737s as they transition to Delta is expected to benefit our annual pretax results by approximately $200 million after all of the 717s are transitioned to Delta and replaced with 737s flying.
The primary source to the benefits from a revenue contribution of more seats as a nominal trip cost of the 717 compared to our 737s is approximately the same.
And as a result of this opportunity to retire the 717s from our fleet earlier than the head lease obligations we have made adjustments to our retirement schedule of our Classic fleet to be able to replace the 717s flying as they transition to Delta.
Because we're replacing the 717 flying with adjustments to our Classic retirement schedule this agreement does not increase our near-term capital spending plans for future aircraft needs.
Collectively the 717 deal and the aircraft deferrals announced in May have not changed our EBIT estimates for 2012 through 2014 which were $70 million in '12 more than $300 million in 2013 and more than $500 million in 2014.
For 2015 however we're expecting that the EBIT contribution from our fleet initiatives will exceed $700 million and the $200 million increase in 2015 is largely the result of the replaced 717s line.
Overall the improvement in EBIT by replacing the 717s with 7-3s coupled with the reduction in our invested capital that comes from the aircraft deferrals as well as the early retirement of the 717 leases significantly improves the return on investment of the collective fleet modernization plan.
In the third quarter we expect to record an accounting charge of approximately $140 million.
It's primarily associated with the costs that were contractually assumed by Southwest to convert the AirTran aircraft to Delta's labor and  configuration.
The charge will be included in our AirTran acquisition an integration costs which are treated as non-GAAP special items.
With respect to these aircraft transition costs we expect to only spend approximately $100 million in net costs.
And the difference between that expected $100 million net costs and the $140 million GAAP third quarter special charge is a result of financial assistance that is being provided by the manufacturer that will be recorded on our financial statements as a reduction in aircraft basis on future deliveries.
The $100 million of net conversion costs are about $50 million higher than we expected to incur if we would've integrated the 717s directly into Southwest.
So as a result this will increase our estimate of total acquisition and integration costs from $500 million to approximately $550 million.
In regards to the net rent expense as aircraft are transitioned from Southwest the Delta our book rental expenses is eliminated and the sublease income basically offsets that.
So in summary we're very excited about the opportunity to retire the 717s from the fleet early.
And we're confident that the net economics of the transaction better support our strategic our operational as well as our financial goals.
And with that Tom I believe we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will now begin with our first question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on your comments about third quarter RASM likely being solid.
It definitely helps put some boundaries on it to know it won't  exceed the second quarter but I think investors are still a little bit confused at how to interpret it just given the tough comps throughout the quarter.
If July isn't as good as June and comps get a lot tougher in August and then again in September it seems possible that PRASM might go negative in September.
Is this the sort of ramp throughout the quarter that would be reasonable? Or am I missing something about how the months shape up from here? Yes I think -- I'm looking for the comps John.
But certainly we think July the fact that we had July 4 on a Wednesday produces a tougher year-over-year comp than what we expect in August and September.
I think we also have July as you say a very optimal month and I think we've noted in the past that some of the suboptimal months and we just have more room to grow revenues than we do in the peak periods like July.
But overall our bookings for the quarter look solid and we don't see anything for August or September.
But I would admit that July is impacted by Fourth of July.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Gary when we think about Southwest historically capacity growth demand stimulation solid returns have gone hand-in-hand.
But as you've gone through this tougher phase here the answer has been still in capacity growth until returns improve and that makes sense.
But as we look forward and you mentioned that you're going to keep 2013 capacity flat is the flat or minimal capacity growth the sort of new normal? Or do you envision getting back to a world where you see capacity growth demand stimulation as again sort of aligned with maintaining solid returns from here? Well we definitely have some opportunities to stimulate demand.
But I think that it will be perhaps a bit more tactical in the future than it has been in the past.
And also it has to be at a revenue production level that hits our 15% return requirement.
So I think step one is just restoring our profitability to those levels number one.
Number two is to make sure that we have the capabilities in place to pursue expansion opportunities which we are doing that's adding the 737-800 that's investing in international capabilities those kinds of activities.
We'll have access to airplanes to be able to grow the airline.
So all of those necessary pieces will be in place.
And then it's just a matter of again making tactical decisions about what new markets we might want to add.
Because it's tactical I think we just have to wait and see when we're ready to add aircraft what opportunities are available and that'll be a function of capacity in the market and the price in the market.
So Bob Jordan and I both highlighted Houston Hobby and the international opportunity there which is a perfect example to your question.
I'm hopeful that we will be hitting our return requirements so that we can add aircraft because there is a significant opportunity to lower fares and grow the market in Houston Hobby internationally as one example.
And there are plenty more examples like that but I think we just don't want to get the cart before the horse.
So the first thing is we need to hit our profit targets and then we'll be in the position to make those kind of choices.
And we'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my first question Laura is my usual Wright Amendment question.
Can you just update us on the Wright Amendment revenues year-to-date? And then the other question that kind of goes along with that is I've noticed that some of your -- some of the other airlines are adding service to Love Field from their hubs using 50-passenger jets.
So can you just talk about the opportunity that you have to -- as 2014 approaches to do a lot of that service with larger aircraft and the potential for revenue benefit? Okay I'll take the first one.
So in the quarter Wright Amendment revenue was $74 million.
That was versus $63 million a year ago.
Year-to-date it's $1.34 billion versus the second quarter.
So very strong.
And Gary I will let you talk about...
Well Helane I'll try to answer your question here.
I think first of all by federal law Love Field will be limited to 20 gates.
I guess it is limited now.
But certainly the new airport construction will be 20 gates.
We have ample access to those 20 gates to support our operation.
We'll be able to grow from here.
We have a very strong business in Dallas as Laura just reported to you.
That is very nice growth in what is a pretty tough economic environment.
So we're very pleased with our business here out of Dallas.
We always take the competition seriously but I think we would be delighted to compete head-to-head against regional jets every day.
So in the grand scheme of things our big competition out of Dallas is coming from DFW Airport not Love Field.
And we'll go next to Dan McKenzie with Rodman &amp; Renshaw.
LLC Research Division</strong> Bob I appreciate the AirTran commentary.
But the one thing that stands out is the $2 million operating loss at AirTran.
So it does look like roughly 15% of Southwest business is losing money at least prior to the synergies.
And I guess as I look at the operating costs individual line items seem pretty much the same if not better than AirTran's stand-alone historically.
So...
Dan.
Hey Dan.
Let me just interrupt you there.
That is the 2011 required presentation.
So that first of all that's not this year that's last year.
And I'll defer to Marcy as to what we'll have on our IR website for AirTran if anything separately.
But we're having a harder time separating the profits between AirTran and Southwest as time goes by because they just -- they begin to blend more and more together.
But again I'll defer to Investor Relations over the next several days or weeks.
But there was a significant operating profit from AirTran in the second quarter that's fact number one.
Of the $485 million operating profit which was an all-time record x items I don't recall off the top of my head but as Bob Jordan mentioned earlier the operating margins at AirTran lags Southwest's margins some.
But they're not far off.
So they were a substantial portion of that $485 million.
And they're better year-over-year.
And they're better year-over-year.
There's progress along the way here.
So I apologize for the misinterpretation there but the -- but that was a 2011 chart that was required at the time for combining financial statements.
I think it's because it was split between -- there was AirTran standalone for a month and Southwest owned it for 2 months and that's the only reason that's in there.
But I agree with you that it is somewhat confusing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So thank you for clarifying that and I apologize for the confusion on my part.
And then I guess if I could just ask the -- my next question.
If I can just focus on productivity perhaps a little differently than what's stated in the press release.
I didn't see block hour stats in the press release.
So I guess I'm wondering first what that average block hour time was in the second quarter? And then how does that compare to second quarter block hour time historically? And if you can just talk a little bit about the potential productivity improvements there? Well for the most part our utilization is still very high and especially in relation to prior years.
Since 2007 we've concentrated more of the flying into the meat of the day sort of 7 a.m.
to 7 p.m.
And the block hours per day are down somewhat year-over-year but I think that probably suggests Laura that maybe we have some opportunities to add more flights outside of the mean part or the meaty part of the day.
But...
Yes and then there's [ph] 2Q '12 11 hours and 24 minutes was the block time average for the quarter.
Last year was 11.41 but at '10 it was 11.11 so it's some.
And I think we peaked at around 11.50 back in '07.
So it's still very very high.
And we'll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on the Evolve project how many aircraft have been completed and the rate at which you're converting those over and when you think that's done? We can do that Duane.
We have 50 converted through June.
We expect to convert about 200 more about 100 in the third quarter and 100 in the fourth quarter.
And we will be done in the second quarter of 2013 with all of the 700s.
Research Division</strong> And then just on fuel efficiency I guess as we think about whatever that line is in the model ASMs per gallon it kind of feels like that should accelerate a bit as you do this Evolve program and as you layer in more of these 800s.
Can you give us any sense for the sort of year-to-year gains we can expect going forward? When you're talking about the fuel efficiency and all the economics we haven't provided anything in 2013.
As you know the Evolve seats we're actually expensing.
They're not being capitalized so that's actually adding to some of the cost pressure and why you're not seeing net improvement in the 2013 time  frame.
But certainly – or 2012 time frame.
But certainly as we get into 2013 we have the majority of the fleet we'll see some nice gains on the fuel efficiency and just the overall CASM from those but we haven't provided any 2013 guidance yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just sneak one more in could you clarify your comment about capacity growth next year? Yes.
So we expect capacity growth in 2013 to be modest.
That's going to become as a result of the extra seats from the 800 and Evolve.
First quarter will be flat to relatively down but full year will be a modest increase.
And we'll take our next question from Mike Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 quick ones.
Back to capacity growth Laura you gave us next year.
Did you give us the third and fourth quarter of this year? I did not.
I think I told you that for the full year we're going to be relatively flat with last year.
I think we reached down about 1 point 1 percentage point.
So we're down about 1 point Mike here in this second quarter.
I think it's pretty...
1.2 I think.
Yes 1.2 I think there.
Pretty consistent in the third and fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then my second question.
On the $1 billion of CapEx that you saved 2012 to 2014 Laura how does that break out per year? Is it evenly across the 3 years or is it front-end loaded? No it's actually weighted towards 2013 and 2014.
The 2012 estimates are about $1.3 billion so it was modest but the real difference is in '13 and '14.
Right now '13 is 1 to 1.1 and that had been in the 1.4 rate so it's definitely the next 2 years when you see most of it.
We'll take our next question from Ray Neidl with the Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Gary I think you said on CNBC this morning that your ROIC goal is 15%.
You've stated that previously.
And I'm just wondering the components of that.
It looks like it's coming from cost reductions reconfiguration of your aircraft resuming growth which you're not doing for the next 3 or 4 quarters.
So relatively speaking is that a goal that's well beyond the year 2013 in other words about 1.5 years out or more? Well we're -- the 12 months ended June of '12 we hit an 8% return on invested capital I believe that's in the press release.
This quarter if you annualize the second quarter it would be over 15%.
And that's not my prediction for the next 4 quarters.
But it just at least puts in perspective the kind of progress that we've made towards that goal.
If we can sustain the current core earnings and then drive the values that we're targeting from the AirTran acquisition from the All-New Rapid Rewards rollout the fleet initiatives I think the way Laura categorizes those in her mind probably includes the 800s.
Sometimes I separate them in my own mind.
But in any event that the -- what we have detailed for you in the press release shows very significant pretax earnings contributions coming from this collection of fleet initiatives 800s the Evolve the swapping of the 717s in favor of 737s and I already said Evolve.
And by the way we -- back to Duane's earlier question we will likely retrofit 100 of our Classic aircraft with Evolve seating as well.
But that won't meet the time line that Laura shared earlier.
So all told those more than take us from our current levels to the 15% returns.
So we've got a very nice portfolio of opportunities that will bring very significant value.
And with respect to your specific point about 2013 whether it's well beyond 2013 I don't think we're prepared to say at all that we won't hit our target next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That's good to hear.
One other macro question Gary.
The industry is probably going to change here with the American bankruptcy one way or the other.
And is that going to have any effect at all or a major effect on Southwest if one American comes at a bankruptcy to begin with and if they did merge with U.S.
Airways they might become a larger more aggressive competitor? And just to tie-in again Ray on your 15% question we've had a 15% target for 25 years.
So that has -- I don't see that changing.
So there's nothing new about that.
On American I think we agree with you that certainly what we have to plan for is a much stronger much more viable much more cost effective competitor in the future.
The old American is gone and it will be replaced by something.
So we agree with you.
So we're gearing for stronger competition in the future.
And that certainly provides the kind of discipline that we need to keep our costs low and our service levels high.
Whether the reorganization of American results in some kind of opportunities for us that's pure speculation right now on our part.
But just like we were able to move very quickly to pick up a couple of slots at Washington Reagan we know what we want to do with the airline over the next 5 to 10 years.
And I think we've got the horsepower to move.
And as some opportunities present themselves I think we can decide and move quickly.
And we'll go next to Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> From the time you announced the merger my assumption was that the product AirTran was at the time would eventually become the product that Southwest is today.
Basically the Southwest way would prevail in terms of the passenger experience single fleet type IT pricing and so forth.
I'm curious now that you have a more thorough understanding of AirTran's operations and procedures is there anything that they did better or different than Southwest that might actually continue? It could be as simple as red eye flying for example or maybe something much deeper than that? Any thoughts? And just so I don't confuse anyone our plan for integrating AirTran is unchanged from what you initially described.
In other words we will follow through with moving all of the AirTran operations into Southwest Airlines with the product that you know and love today at Southwest Airlines.
Absolutely we've learned a lot from AirTran.
I think they do operate differently and they are an outstanding operator.
I mean they have very strong on-time performance outstanding baggage handling and they have a different method of scheduling than we do.
And they manage their fuel loads different than we do.
So there's a number of things that are still queued up for us I would say as opportunities to continue to explore.
We don't like to make massive changes to our operating procedures.
Safety is our top priority.
We want to make sure that people are fully trained and before we undertake a very large change there we're very measured and very reasoned about how we go about that.
But those are a couple of items that I'm very excited about that I think over time Bob Jordan and Mike Van de Ven have been looking at and some things I'm sure we will implement.
The biggest value I think that they have brought to us besides just seeing how another company works is international.
Because our ability to research international fares and profits is much -- as you know is much more difficult than what we're able to do domestically.
So this gives us not only just the operating expertise and experience.
And we admit at Southwest we're novices to this so get that from AirTran.
And in addition to that we get very meaningful insight into those international markets.
And of course these are markets that are expansion opportunities for us.
So all of that is really invaluable.
But they're very fine people and they're very excited to be joining Southwest Airlines.
We've added a lot of former AirTran folks into our leadership team.
And again I can't say enough of good things about our AirTran family members.
They're doing a great job.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And a quick follow up for Laura.
I'll recheck my notes related to last year's FAA shutdown.
Do you disclose what the estimated third quarter benefit was? It's fairly easy to compute what your net benefit was for that -- at that time.
But of course not all the revenue fell all at 1.
it was spread across 2 quarters.
And I'll let Marcy correct me but I believe the July benefit was $36 million last year.
So again I think going back to John's question earlier that could be playing into some of the comps year-over-year in July as well.
But...
Research Division</strong> And do you have an August and September figure since revenue recognition would have affected those months as well? We disclosed those so Marcy Brand will follow up later.
We'll take our next question from Savi Syth with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question is does -- I understand the -- out of the $700 million $200 million is coming from the 717 transition.
Could you break out the $500 million between the 6-seat and the 800 transition? I don't know if we've broken it out Savi but what we have disclosed is with the Evolve the 6 extra seats that's conservatively a couple of hundred million a year.
This from some pretty easy math on that.
You've got the benefits of the 800s and the Classics being retired that would really make up.
All 3 of those together make up the $500 million.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Could you provide what EarlyBird and the Pets and Unaccompanied were in the second quarter as well as what those 2 end businesses were like in the first quarter? You bet.
So in the second quarter our EarlyBird was $40 million that was up from $36 million last year.
I'll get your first quarter in a minute.
Pets UMs and excess bag charges were $19 million that was slightly different Southwest against standalone that was equal to last year.
And I don't know if I have 1Q in front of me.
Again I think that's something we can follow up with you.
Marcy Brand will give you a call.
And we'll go next to Glenn Engel with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on the 737 Classics now that you're pushing out the retirement of those does that mean that maintenance is going to remain elevated for a few years? Well let me just -- while Laura is thinking about your maintenance question just to clarify we had an original useful life plan for our Classics.
We accelerated the retirement of those.
Then when we reached the -- in our planning then when we reached the deal for the 717s we pushed some of the accelerated retirement dates back a bit.
But they're still earlier than what they would have been had we kept them the entire useful life.
So I don't know that that's meaningful to your question.
But...
Research Division</strong> That tells me the depreciation impact that you talked about earlier in the year will be somewhat less than you previously said.
Yes there's just a lot of things that are going on in our fleet estimates and retirement dates and then are we going to have a 717 deal.
So I think all that now is finally settled and Laura has also updated salvage values and just a number of things related to all of the depreciation charges.
But on the maintenance...
Yes and so what I'm going to say to Gary's point some airplanes still aren't accelerated somewhat.
We have 40 Classics retiring this year which is a significant number.
So we do expect to see benefit.
But all in all when we look at the total operating costs of the 717 on a nominal basis compared to our 737s when you look at ownership maintenance all the operating costs they're about the same.
So when you think of it that way we're not expecting to see maintenance increase as a result of this deal.
And we'll still get the benefit of the Classics that have been accelerated from where they were.
Research Division</strong> So the current level of maintenance cost for ASM is something that's a good steady-state number? You're looking out for 2013 and beyond? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes we will give guidance on that for our 2013 plan.
But certainly with our fleet plan we expect to see improvements over time with the acceleration of both the 717s and the Classics.
Research Division</strong> So tax rate was relatively low in the June quarter what will the tax rate be now for 2012? Yes Glenn it was 38% in the quarter and we expect it to be in that 38% to 48% range for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Why would it pop back up? Why wouldn't it stay down to 38%? It all depends on what your nondeductible items are as well as just what your full-year PBT [ph] is.
So that's why we are giving you a range.
But certainly a 38% range is reasonable.
Research Division</strong> And finally the headcount was up over 5% year-over-year in the June quarter with capacity being down.
Why? What's driving that and when will that reverse? I think that's -- the same question same answer that we've discussed perhaps as early as in the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
We had -- first of all we introduced a new frequent flyer program that simply required more support at our call centers.
Now as that -- we actually have seen our calls offered this year compared to last year come down substantially.
So I think some of the pressure that we had in our call centers is already behind us.
The other thing that we are always trying to manage Glenn is just the right balance of staffing and overtime and other forms of premium pay.
Last year I felt like it was a little bit pushed too hard and we had too much premium pay.
So we have allowed for some of our staffing to increase in operating groups across the company primarily in the call centers by the way.
But the overtime and the premium pay and all of those categories are down substantially and the overall unit costs performance in salaries wages and benefits was quite good in the quarter as an example.
So I don't expect our staffing to continue to increase.
It has slowed to a crawl if anything for all the reasons that you pointed out.
So now all we're doing is simply trying to optimize the cost and the service levels understanding that we're trying to keep our fleet roughly flat and more importantly our trips and capacity roughly flat.
And Glenn I was going to add to that is on the AirTran side Southwest is doing all of the ground service AirTran had outsourced previously in the stations that we both -- and we're doing that much more cost effectively but it does mean we have more heads than we had on a combined basis.
And we'll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Trahan.
So a question Laura just to follow up on the CASM x fuel commentary for the third quarter.
You said mid to high single digits but that was I guess you said excluding profit-sharing.
So assuming you have in higher profit on an absolute basis which looks like it's going to be the case.
Should we expect that CASM x fuel off the 7.39 number to be actually closer to straight up high single digits? Am I thinking about properly? I think that's probably reasonable.
Let me just walk you through Hunter some of the items just so you can understand where the costs are coming from.
But to your point 2Q on a CASM x fuel it was up 4.3 it was 2.7 with our profit-sharing just to put that in perspective.
And what we've got in the half of the year is I think Dan asked a question on Evolve.
We've got 50 airplanes that were down in the first 6 months.
I think it was maybe only 40.
And we've got 100 per quarter in each of the third and fourth quarters.
So that's going to be expensed and that's going to put more pressure on our maintenance expense in the third and fourth.
But high return on investment on that.
On the airports we've got some really nice credits that happen to hit in the second quarter.
So all in all if you look at our airport costs for the year they make sense.
But first half is coming in lower.
We are having some adjustments on our depreciation and ownership as a result of the myriad of things going on in the fleet side that are going to hit the back half of the year.
And advertising is the other item where we significantly underspend on advertising and deferred a lot of that.
So again that's an investment that's going to hit in the back half of the year.
And as you think about the buybacks you guys got very aggressive on this on your announcement which I think a lot of the people appreciate.
But how -- can you maybe give us some sense for the timing of those buybacks during the quarter? Sort of obviously there's quiet periods or blackout periods that you can't buy the stock and how should we think about how you think about timing future buybacks? Do you try to get opportunistic pullbacks or is it more sort of systematic methodical approach? Just anything in that area will be great.
I don't think we can give you any answers to those questions.
I think first of all we're managing the business and in particular our operating cash flow.
Secondly we want to manage our operating cash flow in such a way that it drives free cash flow.
So it will have -- we'll be thinking about having an available amount of money that we want to provide to our shareholders.
But that again that just depends upon the performance and the availability of that money.
I think the other way to think about the share repurchase and the reason that the board did authorize an increase back in May is because we were anticipating that we would before the next board meeting which is next week that we would be completing the first authorization.
And we certainly wanted to acknowledge to you and the rest of the market that we're still willing to be a buyer given the circumstances that I described.
But there is no deadline.
We'll certainly give no pricing guidance or timing guidance whatsoever.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll take our last question from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Our questions have been answered.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom and as always if anyone has follow-up questions Gary and I are available.
Thank you all for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Ginger Hardage Senior Vice President of Culture and Communications.
Right.
Thanks so much.
Now is the time we'd like to begin the media portion.
So I now will queue up the questions for you all to be able to post those to Gary Laura and Bob.
So will you please give those instructions? [Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question from Matt Joyce with the Dallas Business Journal.
Matt here.
I wanted to ask Gary what's your take on Spirit's expansion at DFW Airport and how it relates to the competitive feel for Southwest? Gosh Matt I don't know that I have any particular reaction.
Clearly Spirit is one of just a very few airlines that are adding aircraft and expanding in this environment.
And so we're mindful of that and I don't know if you heard Laura's report earlier but we're continuing to manage well I think out of Dallas Love Field and are looking forward to the day when all of our construction is complete over here and the Wright Amendment restrictions lapse.
But Spirit is adding they're adding airplanes and they're adding flights.
And I think that's a fact.
And they're a very very fine airline and we take that competition very seriously.
And we'll take our next question from Kelly Yamanouchi with the Atlanta Journal Constitution.
I just wanted to ask for a clarification.
I think there was something I didn't understand about why is it that the net conversion aircraft conversion costs are increasing by $50 million? Well very simple: because the cost of converting the aircraft is going to be higher than what we would have spent on it.
And for us to make a deal with Delta we agreed to pay those conversion costs.
I would just -- just to further explain we just amazingly found a home for all 88 of those aircraft.
And so you might think of it as a volume discount that we were willing to offer to induce our sublease customer here to take those aircraft.
But that's all it means is that the cost of converting the aircraft is going to be more with this deal than what we thought it would be.
And as to how we make that work well again Laura explained that the value that we get from not flying the 717s and instead flying the 737s is substantial.
So it -- what -- we'll pay for that conversion cost in the first 6 months.
And when you say the cost of the deal is more than you thought it would be you mean the AirTran acquisition right? No I was saying the cost to convert an AirTran 717 into Southwest we were going to spend $50 million.
The cost to convert those over to Delta is going to cost $100 million.
We're spending more money on the aircraft conversion and there's also some modest accounting differences and subleasing the aircraft versus just using it ourselves.
But the fact is the Delta conversion cost is more than what the Southwest cost would have been.
Why is it not less if they're maintaining a front cabin? Kelly it really comes down to their design for the spec of the airplane.
So they're going to make more changes to the airplane than we would have.
We have time for one more question.
We'll take our last question from Andrea Ahles with Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
I was wondering if you could give a little more commentary on your fares.
It looks like airfares were up 5% for you guys to about $150 is your average fare for this quarter.
Could you talk a bit more about the fare environment and where you think it's going to be going heading into the fall travel season? Well I think it's a little bit too early to tell you what the fare environment looks like at least for the second quarter until we get all the earning results.
But I think we have some idea what the rest of the airline's revenue results for the quarter and they were all pretty good.
I think the airline business right now has adjusted to the state of the economy and higher fuel costs.
So I don't see that -- but again based on Laura and Laura's and my earlier report we're looking for a solid third quarter.
We have some distortions with the Fourth of July holiday following on a Wednesday that she commented on and I don't know if you heard that Andrea.
But otherwise I think our business looks like it's continuing along.
What I said earlier I would just repeat which is I think it's prudent to be cautious in this environment just given the state of affairs in the world and our domestic economy.
But aside from those normal cautionary comments our business is continuing to be strong.
We have very full airplanes and at least no immediate threat of higher energy costs like what we were saying in the first quarter that seems to have steadied.
I won't agree that these lower energy costs which I heard some commentary earlier this morning on.
They're not low.
They're very high.
But at least there's steady.
And when we've adjusted our business to these levels of fuel costs.
And Andrea if I can add one thing -- this is Bob.
As Gary noted about just a little bit of caution I think the second quarter for the first time in a long time was the first quarter where we had no domestic fare increases as an industry that stuck.
So that gives you a little view into how the industry I think is thinking about the pricing power and all that.
So that's a little bit unusual that we did not have any fare increases pushed through in the second quarter.
Gary you mentioned lower energy costs with the way you guys are being penalized for your fuel hedging contracts right now because oil has kind of stayed down and is not as high as had originally been anticipated.
Will that change your approach to fuel hedging contracts in the future since you continue to see sort of a negative impact from those contracts? Well Andrea sorry I had the same reaction.
Fuel costs aren't low and we're not seeing any significant penalty for fuel hedging.
Fuel hedging by definition is an insurance program.
And best case is we spend some money on that coverage and never have to use it.
So we had -- I think our folks have done a marvelous job of managing our fuel hedge position.
There was a $0.03 penalty in the quarter if you want to call it that...
$0.04 $0.04.
And that's -- we have positioned the fuel hedge this year to allow for declining prices and for the most part our folks have participated with all of the reduction in fuel prices.
With respect to our program going forward we're about 30% hedged in the second half of this year close to 60% hedged next year about 50% in 2014.
We've got positions in '15 and '16 all that is in our press release.
So no we'll continue to be very active in fuel hedging because if you don't have the protection in place it's an enterprise risk.
So it's really just that simple.
So then the challenge for our folks is trying to spend an appropriate amount on the program that doesn't penalize the company.
We spent less money on fuel hedging in 2012 than we have over the last couple of years.
And again I feel very good about our fuel hedging program.
We have substantial protection in place when fuel prices go back up as they certainly will.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Hardage for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you again for participating today.
If you think of any additional questions you might have from the media don't hesitate to call (214)792-4847 and we'll get those additional answers for you.
But thank you so much for calling in today.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's call.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's call.
Joining me on the call today is Gary Kelly Southwest's Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; and Mike Van De Ven Executive Vice President and COO.
Today's call will begin with opening comments from Gary followed by Tammy providing a review of our third quarter results and current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy's remarks.
And Gary Tammy Bob and Mike will be available to take your questions.
As a quick reminder 2011 year-to-date consolidated results include AirTran beginning May 2 the date of the acquisition.
In order to provide what we believe to be a more meaningful year-over-year comparison on today's call when referring to year-to-date 2012 results compared to 2011 we may provide commentary on a combined basis as defined in this morning's press release.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results such as combined results and results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And now I'll turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thank you Marcy and thanks everyone for joining us today for our Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Third quarter earnings were $97 million or $0.13 a share which was slightly ahead of the First Call consensus.
We had a lot of activity in the quarter.
We made a lot of progress.
And clearly I'm not satisfied with our earnings results at these levels but always pleased to have a profit.
I do want to thank all of our Southwest people for their hard work and their results.
Again we made very solid progress on our strategic initiatives that are underway.
We had excellent operations for the quarter and outstanding customer service.
Just several notable events.
We completed the 717 lease and sublease deal with Delta.
We've converted 9 of the AirTran 737s into Southwest at this point.
We opened or converted 5 airports at our 2 Southwest airlines.
And at the same time AirTran shut down operations at 6 airports and that brings to 16 since a year ago.
We're continuing our 737-700 retrofit of our interiors and we now have 147 of the -700s with 143 seats that have been converted.
And in addition to that of course the AirTran 9 aircraft that are converted are also in the 143-seat configuration.
So that work is continuing and will continue through the first half next year until we get all of the 700s done.
We made significant progress on a host of technology efforts and several of those are scheduled for implementation next year which I'm very excited about.
Our third quarter revenues and earnings were -- again as I said they were solid but below our plan and below our return target.
There were definite signs of demand weakness.
And especially in September that month was down on a unit basis about 2% to 3%.
And of course our results mirrored what was going on with the rest of the industry.
The good news that we reported this morning is that October so far is back on track.
Its unit revenues are up about 4%.
And sustaining our revenue momentum of course is absolutely critical.
So we have 3 or 4 key revenue initiatives that are planned for 2013 to sustain our revenue momentum.
First of all is the continued rollout of our seating reconfiguration of the 700s or known as Evolve.
Second is the connection of the Southwest and the AirTran networks which is scheduled for early next year.
And really related to that is the ongoing optimization of the combined airlines' networks and we're doing that with every single schedule that we publish.
And then fourthly is the introduction of a new -- at least the first phase of a new revenue management system.
But I would say that in addition to those 4 planned activities we're also evaluating opportunities for additional revenue drivers in 2013.
On the cost front the investments that are reflected in our operating costs to modernize the fleet I think will pay very handsome dividends but those costs will begin to ease next year.
And ultimately with respect to our operating cost at least excluding fuel our goal is to reduce our unit costs from current levels.
I don't think that's necessarily likely for the full year 2013 but that is our goal.
And for several reasons we'll be pursuing aggressive cost control efforts for all of 2013 with the goal of paring at least $100 million from our corporate overhead.
There's no real fat at Southwest but clearly I think there are some opportunities for us to streamline and to focus.
I am very pleased with the performance of our All-New Rapid Rewards program.
And of course it is 1 of our 5 strategic initiatives and the very first one to be delivered.
Partner sales alone generated another $50 million in revenues in the third quarter and we're on pace to do $200 million or more for the year.
In addition since last year there's a build in our air traffic liability of over $400 million and those are cash sales that are in effect locked up until the member takes a trip.
And that is -- of course those monies have not flown to revenues yet and that's in addition to the several hundred million dollars that we are counting on in revenues this year from our All-New Rapid Rewards program.
But all of those are contributing to very very strong cash flow at Southwest Airlines.
Year-to-date operating cash flow was $1.8 billion.
That was well in excess of our capital spending.
That's allowed us to boost the dividend and return $325 million to shareholders in the form of share repurchases.
And on top of that we reduced our debt by $517 million this year along with the effective reduction in our balance sheet leverage to about 40%.
So we're going to continue this financial discipline and we're going to do everything that we consider necessary to hit our 15% return on capital target.
And certainly that's going to be our goal for next year.
We are falling short of our goals for this year.
And again we're evaluating revenue and cost ideas to augment what is already I think an excellent strategic plan.
We've got many exciting opportunities.
I'm delighted with our progress on our initiatives.
Until we hit our targets we just can't be satisfied with the results.
And so I'd like to welcome Tammy Romo as our Chief Financial Officer.
And of course Tammy is known to many of you on the line and a 21-year Southwest veteran and been a Senior Vice President for a number of years and a number of roles.
So Tammy welcome real proud of you.
And I will just turn the call over to you.
All right.
Well thank you Gary.
And thank you everyone for joining us today.
As Gary mentioned our third quarter net income excluding special items was $97 million or $0.13 per diluted share which exceeded a consensus estimate of $0.12.
Record passenger revenues high fuel prices and non-fuel cost pressures which were driven largely by our investment spend on our fleet initiatives were all significant catalysts to our third quarter results.
Revenues were subject to challenging year-over-year comparisons due to holiday mismatch this year and of course last year's ticket tax benefit and a weak revenue yield environment.
Despite the difficult comparisons and slight decline in capacity our passenger revenues in the quarter were a record performance.
Our load factor and unit revenues were also third quarter records.
We've implemented 5 systemwide fare increases this year which have been revenue positive.
However we've had to work hard to stimulate demand in this weak yield environment.
Despite continued economic weakness we were able to maintain close-in bookings at about 20% and our business mix at 35% to 40% both flat year-over-year.
Yield sales were down in both cases as we lowered some lock-up fares in response to the weaker demand and more aggressive fair competition.
On a unit basis our passenger revenues grew 1% year-over-year and total unit revenues grew about 0.5 percentage point.
While July and August had difficult year-over-year comparisons September was particularly challenging due to the weak yield environment.
We continue to significantly improve AirTran's year-over-year revenue performance.
However on a nominal unit basis we still have significant synergy opportunities yet to be realized on AirTran's network and look forward to combining our networks early next year.
We are encouraged about traffic and revenue trends thus far in October.
Some passenger unit revenues as Gary mentioned month-to-date in October are up approximately 4% compared to the same period last year.
However you should note that October last year was the softest month of the quarter.
So at this point we do expect our PRASM comparisons to be more difficult as we progress through the quarter.
Before I move to our cost performance I want to quickly cover the revenue contribution from some of our initiatives.
Business Select revenues were approximately $21 million.
We recognized $50 million in incremental passenger revenues from our Rapid Rewards program.
And as Gary mentioned we're just very pleased with the Rapid Rewards program.
We continue to produce increased membership increased partner point sales and increased trips flown by members and that's at a higher premium.
Our Wright Amendment revenues increased 18% year-over-year to $75 million at third quarter with year-to-date revenues totaling $210 million.
We are very pleased by the early results of our 800s and Evolve seating and both fleet initiatives were meaningful contributors to our third quarter revenue results.
Through the third quarter we have 147 Evolve -700s in our fleet and we expect to retrofit another 100 during the fourth quarter.
While our freight and other revenues declined year-over-year and third quarter we currently expect fourth quarter freight and other revenues to increase slightly year-over-year based on favorable trends and freight volumes EarlyBird revenues and charters.
EarlyBird revenues in third quarter were $41 million.
And we also recognized $75 million in third quarter from other fees.
Turning to fuel.
Our third quarter 2012 economic fuel price per gallon of $3.16 which was lower than our most recent guidance that was due partially to easing jet differentials and that was due to the less dramatic hurricane season than what we had expected and more favorable inventory benefit from carrying a lower-price fuel in a rising market.
Our hedging premiums which are included below the line and other expenses were $15 million and that compares to $36 million last year.
Based on market prices as of Monday this week our fourth quarter 2012 economic fuel price is forecasted to be in the $3.45 per gallon range.
The significant increase in our fourth quarter jet fuel forecast is primarily driven by lower-than-normal refined product inventories worldwide.
While Brent crude oil has risen to near $115 per barrel refined product prices have climbed even higher.
In addition we are not forecasting the same level of benefit in fourth quarter as we realized in third quarter from using lower-priced inventory while prices were rising.
Our net premium comps for fourth quarter '12 will be approximately $3 million down from $14 million in fourth quarter of last year.
The increase in our third quarter unit costs excluding fuel profit-sharing and special items was right in line with our guidance.
As expected investment in our fleet initiatives was a good portion of our third quarter cost inflation relative to the modest increase experienced the first half of this year.
Other operating expense also included some inflation associated with unique timing such as advertising spend that was deferred from the first half of the year to the back half.
All told these items contributed 1 to 2 points of the third quarter non-fuel unit cost increase.
The remainder of the cost inflation related to rate increases in both our labor and airport costs.
We expect similar year-over-year cost trends in fourth quarter with a 2- to 3-point unit cost impact estimated from our fleet initiatives and shift in advertise spend.
As a result we currently expect fourth quarter non-fuel unit cost excluding special items and profit sharing to increase year-over-year similar to the 6% increase experienced in third quarter.
While the increases in the back half of this year are the results of a combination of investments and unique timing we are not satisfied with our current level of cost inflation and we intend to be aggressive in addressing these trends.
While I'm not ready quite yet to provide 2013 cost guidance we expect year-over-year cost pressures excluding fuel profit sharing and special items to ease dramatically in 2013 trending towards flat year-over-year in the back half.
On the non-operating cost side our net interest expense declined year-over-year for the lower interest rates.
We expect a similar year-over-year decrease in fourth quarter.
And as noted in fuel discussion our 2012 fuel hedging premium expense recorded in other gains/losses is expected to be down approximately $11 million as compared to fourth quarter '11.
Gary touched on most of the balance sheet so I'll go through this very quickly: Cash and short-term investments at September 30 was $3.2 billion and cash flow from operations was a very strong $1.8 billion for the first 9 months of this year.
And our CapEx was $949 million and that generated free cash flow of nearly $900 million.
For our full year 2012 we anticipate a cap spending of approximately $1.3 billion.
And for 2013 we currently expect $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion in capital spend.
We repurchased $325 million of stock this year which totals $550 million or 65 million shares under our $1 billion total stock repurchase authorization.
And we distributed $22 million of dividends to our shareholders.
And as Gary mentioned our leverage is currently in the low 40% range.
We have about $40 million of debt payments for the remainder of this year and for 2013 our scheduled debt maturities are less than $200 million.
Overall we remain investment-grade with strong liquidity modest debt and a focus on preserving our financial strength and enhancing shareholder value.
On the fleet and capacity side we -- just to give you a quick update here: We have 8 -- we have had 8 of our 34 planned -800 deliveries remaining this year.
Net of Classic retirements we are still planning to end the year down a few units versus last year.
Fourth quarter and full year 2012 available seat miles are expected to be flat year-over-year.
For 2013 we are planning for a modest year-over-year ASM growth with relatively flat fleet.
As we manage the multiple moving parts of our fleet including integrating AirTran's fleet we have various ways we can replace the load we need to support our schedules without wavering from our commitment to keep our flight relatively constant until we are meeting our financial targets.
First quarter 2013 ASMs are relatively flat to slightly down year-over-year.
Our flight schedules currently run through April 12.
We will be publishing an April extension of our flight schedules on Monday.
That schedule will be a continuation of our efforts to manage the Southwest and AirTran networks in preparation for connecting the networks early next year.
We will be publishing the connecting itineraries once the capabilities are ready to be implemented.
Our AirTran synergies are expected to significantly benefit from a more optimal network once connected.
Thus far this year we realized $110 million in net synergies largely from cost synergies but revenue contributions should significantly increase as we connect the networks early next year which supports our plan to achieve $400 million in net pretax synergies.
Overall I am pleased with third quarter revenue results and encouraged about October revenue trends thus far.
With ever-rising fuel costs we must in real continue to work diligently to control our cost normalized for near-term fleet investments.
As Gary mentioned we have significant revenue opportunities on the horizon for 2013 which align very well with our strategic discipline to produce a 15% return on invested capital.
With exciting opportunities ahead our Southwest warriors continue to make great progress on our initiatives and I want to thank them for their outstanding efforts.
And with that Tom we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will now begin with our first question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Scott Tan on behalf of Jamie.
Last week you filed what looked to us to be your deepest winter sale in perhaps 3 to 4 years but you also pushed through an across-the-board fare increase.
I know you provided October demand commentary but we're still having trouble reconciling what seems to be contradictory pricing actions.
Does this speak to friction perhaps between the finance department and the marketing department? Perhaps the former is pushing for higher fares and the latter for lower? Or do you think these decisions come from the same place? Any color would be appreciated.
That's what -- no there's no friction.
Although I would welcome that.
They're very friendly with each other actually.
No these are decisions that are owned by our commercial group and in particularly our marketing and revenue management organizations so let me be clear on that.
We have sales that are seasonal and they're annual and so I don't think you should read anything into that other than sometimes the sales are more or less aggressive.
And that is a function of where we see demand in our business.
So there's nothing nothing at all unusual about the sale this time of year.
Fare increases of course are always held close to the vest.
We don't telegraph those we don't tell you what's coming next.
We look for fare increases on the whole fare structure in particular when costs are rising and that's exactly what we reported to you of course.
And what's your -- I'm sure you already know.
Jet fuel prices are up sharply over the last 30 to 60 days and as I said in the press release I'm disappointed with that.
But no we're evaluating opportunities to raise fares.
And on top of that we are managing our seasonality and our business with fare sales.
And so if you were sensing that the sale is a little deeper this year I don't know if I have a comment on that other than to admit to you all the very obvious which is we did see weakness especially in September.
And as we reported we continue to be very concerned about the economy.
And so the good news is that we seem to be back on track in October but I'm not willing to make any predictions about December or January quite yet.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious because I recently saw the Southwest's big deal 40% off so that was in relation to the question.
But as a follow-up Gary and this is more for Tammy you mentioned that costs will ease in 2013.
Did you say flat CASM x fuel for 2013 or just the back half of 2013? No not for the full year 2013.
I would -- we -- again we haven't given guidance.
I would expect we would likely be up still for 2013 because again if you include the investments that we're making in our fleet initiatives.
But yes I did -- what I did say was that we do expect the cost pressures to ease dramatically and we would be trending to flat by the second half of the year.
Hey Scott I'm glad that you noticed it was 40% off and I hope you got out there and bought a whole bunch of Southwest tickets.
And we'll take our next question from Glenn Engel with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One depreciation jumped up a lot from the June-to-September quarter.
Does that have to do with buying planes or just older planes having higher depreciation levels? Yes Glenn on depreciation we've been of course adjusting our fleet plans but the quarter did include expense for the revised salvage buy-ins associated with the accelerated retirement of our Classic fleet.
Research Division</strong> So that's -- was -- that's the base level to start from fourth quarter as well? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> You were -- talked about your other revenue being down despite the fact that your Rapid Rewards and revenues were up.
So what is driving down other non-passenger revenues? We had lower fees and -- versus a year-ago level.
We had a reduction in of course some of the AirTran ancillary revenues as we're moving those airplanes over to Southwest.
And I guess that's probably the majority of it.
All of the increase in the Rapid Rewards is in passenger revenues.
Research Division</strong> And the $110 million of pretax synergies you had -- you said was on the cost side and your unit costs were up 6%.
How come we just don't seem to see that number anywhere? I think those are just being again offset by inflation.
So you just mentioned we have some.
And our depreciation expense our airport costs are up.
And so we are seeing some inflationary pressures throughout all of our cost items but we -- when you track where AirTran was versus where we are today we are seeing lower costs.
I think we're seeing also some pressure at our maintenance area which we're seeing -- we have increased rates on our 700 engines.
So it kind of varies throughout our cost structure.
But back to what we said earlier we're not happy with the inflation that we are seeing in our cost trends which is going to be a significant focus for us in 2013.
Research Division</strong> And finally you -- I was a little confused.
The full-fare mix I think last year it was 17% in the third quarter.
And I think it was 17% in this second -- the quarter that just ended.
What number did you say it was in the third quarter of this year? Glenn I'm going to point you back to -- I think what I mentioned earlier was the 20% close-in passengers I mentioned during my remarks with more welcome [ph] discounting needed to stimulate traffic in this tough yield environment.
The full-fare percentages we provided historically really just aren't that meaningful so we -- so I'll point you more to just kind of walk-up mix which is 20% and that this right in line with last year.
Research Division</strong> And with that lock-up mix so much lower than it was 10 years ago and been generally trending down it's just -- is that a sign that you've been -- the full-fare hikes that you've been doing have gone too far? Well this -- while our fare increases -- we have pushed fares.
As you know we had 5 8 increases this year.
And actually last year I think we had about 8.
But while -- this year's fare increases they have been revenue positive so that's number one.
But I definitely would acknowledge that the impact to our revenues has been less dramatic relative to historical results which is why we have our fare sale that we offer today.
So we are having to offer more discounts to our close-in passengers as well.
But I think you have to look at the overall revenue number and it is definitely a component obviously driving our revenues.
But our revenues even with a higher mix of "full-fares" years ago our unit revenues are up in huge numbers.
In 5 years time we're up 40%.
So it's -- the other thing that is very different Glenn is that from the days that you and I worked together in the 1990s we were all shorthaul.
And the mix in shorthaul markets today as compared to then compares better but the full-fares never reached that kind of historic level in longhaul markets.
So there's a number of reasons for the change.
But the -- I think my deaf argument to you is we've got to manage our total revenues period from whatever array of techniques that we use and it's just a different airline today than it was 10 or 20 years ago.
We'll take our next question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Everyone I just -- 2 questions here.
I want to go back to -- I think you had mentioned Tammy or Gary on the other revenue maybe being down a little bit as some of the ancillary shifts away.
When you convert an AirTran airplane to a Southwest plane or a station from AirTran to Southwest I'm sure that there's some puts and takes there.
I mean one is that the airplane goes online into the Southwest network but then you lose the baggage revenue the first-class revenue.
I mean what are you seeing when -- with the pluses and minuses? What are some of the things that you have seen as you've gone through that conversion? Well Tammy I'm going to take a swing at that.
The -- Mike I think first of all when we bought AirTran Southwest outperformed AirTran on a unit revenue basis.
Since we've owned AirTran at least through the latter half of last year we made significant improvements in their RASM and that was mostly with revenue management.
So we just took a little bit different approach with their fare structure.
In other words that worked fine late last year.
Seasonally it probably wasn't as effective that Southwest technique if you will in the first quarter of this year.
And we made some adjustments with pricing primarily since the first of the year.
The -- with the -- with their product and their array of fares and fees as it stands today they are no better than Southwest Airlines without fees.
In fact Southwest Airlines performs better.
What is happening though as AirTran continues to make what are really dramatic changes and I think Tammy reported this their capacity was down over 15% year-over-year in the third quarter.
And I mentioned this too: They closed 6 airports they've closed 16 over the past 4 quarters.
And their feed into and out of Atlanta is not as productive as it was before we started tinkering.
On the other hand their mix of nonstop traffic is up significantly.
So within AirTran we're kind of going through quite a bit of churn.
And I think we'll all have a much better AirTran network next year as we continue to tune it.
But I think the bottom line answer to your question is we're seeing what we expected which is we have a better opportunity to produce unit revenues on the Southwest brand than what we have on the AirTran brand.
But in fairness the AirTran we're making a lot of changes or better self-optimizing it here in this interim period so -- but yes certainly we want to get it over to Southwest just as fast as we can.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then just my second question.
When I look at your hedge book if I look back on it on a quarter or 2 it seems like you were over 50% of 2013.
You had a hedge position on it.
I think now it's pulled back a bit.
It looks like it's below 15% and you've backed away in the fourth quarter.
And I'm curious over the last quarter or so was it -- was there maybe a shift in sort of your thinking where energy was moving? Or when we saw that sizable falloff in fuel you may have backed away from some of your positions so you won't have such a large draw on your cash position.
I mean what drove that sort of re-tinkering of the hedge book? Well Tammy is just getting involved in these so I'm probably the common denominator of -- been doing the way we are so I'll go ahead and answer this one too and maybe Tammy can chime in.
But we have a hedge built in 2008 that affects 2012 and '13.
Those hedge prices were relatively high so we have worked that hedge down.
And in fact Mike I would think about it like a put: So we have higher put exposure with the hedge position 3 or 6 months ago than we would like because we are concerned that prices will come off and they will create hedging losses.
So with that we worked very aggressively to manage that hedge to a lower position.
The coverage that we have in place now for 2013 I believe is 15%.
And it -- and that is a view that prices aren't going to go up significantly in that time period from where we are today.
If they do we've got very good hedge coverage in place for -- it's a portfolio management if you will.
So we've got good coverage in '14 good coverage in '15 and minimal downside exposure now for '13 I think is the way to best explain that.
If we have opportunities to boost our hedge in 2013 well then we're prime to do that mindful that we don't want to spend a whole lot of money on hedging premiums.
So actually I think we're in the best shape we've been in a while with our hedging.
Especially if you look in the back -- in the rearview mirror and see what prices is now it's just been a horrendous time to try to do any meaningful fuel hedging.
So I think our folks have done a great job there.
And we'll take our next question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary as somebody who's seen a number of cycles can you just talk about your thoughts on the demand trends the industry is facing today compared to what you remember it feeling like in other sluggish GDP environments? How do we know whether the weakness we saw in September was a blip within sort of a solid trend or whether the strength you're seeing in October is a blip and demand trends overall are turning worse? I think really this period since '08 is unlike anything we've ever seen.
And the oil markets it -- I mean it's really the same story for the economy for travel demand and for the oil markets.
They're extremely volatile.
And I think the bottom line answer to your question is I don't think we can be sure that September is just a blip.
It -- September's performance is inconsistent with what we saw in June.
On the other hand we did have some interesting comps in July and August but we were also off our plan in those 2 months a little bit as well.
But I looked back at our earnings plan for the year again this morning we were ahead of plan as of June.
And now all of a sudden 3 months later we find ourselves pretty significantly behind plan for the year so that's how fast things have turned on us and why it makes it really tough to predict from here.
But we all know the political uncertainty.
We all know the fiscal issues that the country faces and the debt and the elections are upon us.
And I don't think any of us can predict exactly where the economy is going to go from here.
I think all the economic signals as we see them are very mixed.
And as I look at our trends compared to everybody else I don't see any difference in trends.
So it's nothing unique to Southwest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned the election.
Are you a believer in this idea that it's weighing on close-in demand right now and there could be sort of a pop post election if we get more certainty? Do you believe that? Well I -- here's what I do believe.
I think empirically capital goods orders business investment those kinds of broad economic metrics are definitely in decline in 2012.
And as we know out of 2008 those were really the drivers in the recovery.
Consumer spending as we look at that separately as long as our marketing folks have the right price point and the right sale effort I think we get "all you can eat" when it comes to consumers there.
So we have record load factors very strong demand on that front but it's the business travel that seems to be the softer piece.
And I think by extension yes one could speculate or hypothesize that that's what's causing it.
And Ian (sic) [John] we don't know but it is somewhat of a mystery here to see September be as weak as it was and October to look pretty normal.
Tammy did make the point and I'm mindful of that that our October a year ago wasn't so strong.
But at least sequentially relative to I think prior-month this year October looks pretty darn good.
So we're not trying to qualify October too much.
I think it's just an admission that we can't predict from here where things are going to go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick knit on the 4% October number.
Is that the right expectation we should have for the end of the month if demand trends don't really change? Was there something in the comps that's naturally going to bias that number? You mentioned that comps get tougher throughout the quarter but would that bias the month's number? There's nothing in particular for October assuming a stable revenue environment.
So no it really -- it was really more directed to actually progress through the month.
And particularly if you just note December the -- there is a mismatch in how the holidays fall this year versus last so I do think it will make the comps more difficult in December.
And we'll go next to Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask you to elaborate on the new revenue drivers being explored? And if it's too early or premature to go into that now could you give us some color as to when we might be able to expect further news on that front? I knew if I teased you that you would ask.
And no I don't feel comfortable sharing our thinking because they're not committed initiatives yet.
But I did want to admit what I think is the obvious which is we're off plan.
We do have some concerns about the economy and higher fuel prices and I don't think we want to just continue on with business as usual.
So we will be looking for ways to augment our current strategies which I'm very enthused about already but we're looking for ways to augment those and have not made any decisions yet admittedly.
But it would -- were they thought towards something that could impact 2013? That's on the revenue front.
I think I can be a little bit more committed with you on costs.
And in our corporate overhead in particular we are working on cutting our overhead budgets and again as I mentioned we'll be looking for at least $100 million from that perspective.
And the balance here is that the company is working very hard.
And our people are very dedicated helping Southwest Airlines manage through a very challenging transition transformation.
And it would be unwise to starve the company from necessary resources to make those investments pay off.
So it's going to take us 2 years worth of work as an example to bring in international service from a technology perspective.
We've got to have the resources to make that happen.
So I just want to make sure that we're focused and that we're not committed to do things that don't add value.
And I feel very confident that we can trim our costs there.
Tammy's already mentioned that some of the investments of course will play out here naturally.
Like the Evolve seating we'll be done with that in the first half of next year so that will provide some cost relief.
And we do have a bit of a bubble this year with transitioning our AirTran 700s on to our engine maintenance contract.
So that -- those costs will also ease in the future years.
So I think we're very well set up to manage our costs overall much more efficiently 2013 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just one -- ask one more follow-up question with regard to the landing fees? I noticed that ticket's risen by 8% year-on-year.
And when I compare that to the trips flown which had declined I just wanted to get a better understanding as to what might have driven that increase if it was just inflationary pressure or if there's something else going on there.
That's -- that category of course includes airport rentals for space in addition to the activity-driven landing fees.
So it's the rentals piece of that that's gone up significant construction projects that went into effect in Las Vegas and Sacramento very very expensive and believe it or not moved the needle almost all the degree that you see there.
So it's not landing fees it was the point.
And we'll go next to Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Tammy.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> So I thought I'd ask you a question to celebrate.
Just kind of looking at the current analyst guidance and for '13 the guidance you've given on the cost side the CapEx side and kind of what you've given us an idea on debt maturities.
It looks like you got about $600 million or $700 million of potential cash flow that's not really relegated to debt paydown or CapEx or operating working capital.
What are your thoughts -- to the extent there is excess cash I know you've used a lot of it to retire debt this year.
Is the thinking to build back up the cash stockpile? Or are there other places that potentially if you had $600 million or $700 million of uncolored cash that you might dedicate it? Well absolutely.
I think we've -- we do our stock repurchase increase in our recent -- increase in our dividend.
We are very focused on enhancing shareholder value.
As I mentioned earlier we do have $1 billion stock repurchase authorization of which we -- to date we've used $550 million of that.
Now I wouldn't comment on what our plans are going forward but certainly we do have authorization if indeed we determine that's appropriate.
But we -- at the end of the day just to answer your question we're -- I guess the choices are to invest back in the business.
And we've already told you that we are committed to flat fleet until we achieve our targets.
And then to the extent there's excess cash then we'll obviously explore ways to enhance shareholder value.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there a minimum cash threshold that you want to keep on the balance sheet? Or just because the investment account is so large no need to worry about that? Sure.
I think we've been fluctuating around that $3 billion mark and that -- feels pretty comfortable with those type of levels.
So really no big deviation from where we are today.
And we'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I think earlier this week Gary there was a 717 that was hit by a catering truck.
Can you just talk about the disposition of that aircraft and how if it can't be fixed you will make amends with Delta? Okay we'll ask Mike Van De Ven to answer that question.
So yes Helane this is Mike.
Yes so that -- there was some fuselage damage to the airplane and we will send it into a maintenance provider and will fix the airplane.
It was not any significant structural damage to the airplane.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then my other question.
Gary can you prioritize the initiatives you have going at this point in terms of international reservation international risk capability the ability to do over-water flying for Southwest how we should think about the next couple of years in terms of your getting from here to where you will be able to fly to Hawaii and Mexico and so on? Well Helane with -- I'll just very quickly recap the initiatives and hopefully explain how they all tie together.
First -- the first one that's already up and running is the frequent flyer program.
AirTran of course is an integration initiative at this point so that's the second.
We've got the 737-800s and we're -- of course we're well on our way in the implementation stage of that initiative.
We've got Tammy I believe 24 800s on the property at this point.
And we're firmly committed to 78 over the next cumulative over the next several years.
So that's the third initiative.
The fleet modernization is probably the biggest work effort but also the biggest potential value driver that we have and I think you're familiar with that.
And then finally is -- I'd sort of put it in a grouping of replacing our reservations technology and also enhancing our revenue management technology.
They're somewhat different but they're very intimately tied together also.
Every 1 of those 5 initiatives by the way is worth somewhere in the neighborhood of $500 million or more except for the 800s it's the only one that falls below that and it's probably worth $150 million.
What we don't know until we get it all built and implemented is whether there's some double counting.
But there is a big portfolio of value that we have under construction that we're pursuing.
The international probably falls into several categories.
I think that international routes look very attractive from a profitability perspective.
The -- of course we need technology to enable that.
But it'll also a straight line to integrating AirTran meaning that AirTran has international service we must bring up international capabilities within Southwest Airlines to finish the integration of AirTran.
So it's very high priority.
We're working with Amadeus.
That project was launched many months ago is right on track and is scheduled for completion in 2014.
The other value that that effort brings us is it is a first meaningful step towards the ultimate complete replacement of our reservations technology which we very much need to do.
And obviously want to get that first step completed for that reason also.
Separate from that we have a revenue management system that is going in next year and we -- that -- I'm calling that phase 1.
When we have a new reservation system that will also bring added revenue management capabilities.
And then revenue management has other phases of their project that they'll be pursuing over time.
So collectively that whole replacement of reservations and revenue management is a very very significant effort for us.
And again as I said it brings the international capabilities with it and the international routes look like they will be handsome profit opportunities for us.
All right with respect to Hawaii and things like that other than having Southwest Airlines capabilities in place I don't really want to -- I don't want to give our competitors a sense of our priorities for opportunities like that.
On the operation side Mike Van De Ven and his operations team separately are doing everything that they need to do to have us properly certified for the various phases of international flying that we can do.
Right now he's working on proving flights for San Juan as an example which is not international technically of course that's a U.S.
territory.
But all that work is underway and it is hard work but the harder work of course is replacing our reservation system technology.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just for Tammy: What's the share count we should use now after all your stock repurchases? Just [indiscernible].
In -- here? Sure Helane.
We -- well obviously it depends on where our stock price.
That's why -- but based on where the stock price is roughly today on a diluted share basis that's in the 745 million range 745 million 746 million range.
It is of course 740 million for the third quarter so -- on the press release.
And we'll take our next question from Savi Syth with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What was the Business Select as well as the pets and other fees this quarter? Our Business Select our revenues was $21 million.
And our fee -- our pets unaccompanied minors and excess bags were roughly $19 million $20 million.
And our EarlyBird revenues were $41 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So I'm just wondering with AirTran's fleet moving over to Southwest do you -- I mean should we expect the other revenues to be down year-over-year for a while though since you are losing some of the revenue from those? Yes yes that would be going the other way.
You're correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question.
On the fleet transition how much of the kind of the fleet targeted savings have you realized so far? Or are you still on target for that $70 million for this year? Yes we are.
We're on target on all of our fleet initiatives the numbers that we provided to you previously which by 2015 are well in excess of $0.5 billion.
I think we actually gave you over $700 million.
We're on track.
And we'll go next to Ray Neidl with the Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to -- one specific question and a general question.
To go back to the maintenance materials and repairs which has been increasing in low double digits what was it that happened there? And what we should look to -- what should we look for going into next year? I think there's -- and Tammy may want to -- and Mike is here too so how -- whatever you all would like the pitch in here.
But there are 2 major drivers there Ray.
One is we renegotiated our engine maintenance contracts with GE and part of that was to incorporate AirTran into the -- especially the -700 maintenance program.
That resulted in a increase in our maintenance engine expense in 2012.
The second driver in 2012 is this 737-700 seating retrofit that we're doing.
So all of that for accounting purposes is being expensed so that's also an increase in the maintenance materials and repairs line.
And Tammy may pick up a couple of more things here but the main point that I wanted to leave you with is that you're seeing a bubble here in the maintenance materials and repairs line item.
The retrofit will complete next year and so that spending will go away and the costs will begin to come down.
Over time the engine cost component will also begin to come down.
So we have a bit of a bulge here in 2012 but our long-term outlook for maintenance materials and repairs spending is a trend-down and it looks very very good.
Part of this is the fleet modernization.
Part of it is in other words retiring 717s which are very maintenance intensive.
And also part of it of course is retiring our Classic fleets which are also pretty maintenance intensive.
Yes Gary the only thing I would add to that is if you -- our -- without the Evolve charge here in the third quarter the maintenance CASM increase was approximately 5% so it would have been significantly less.
So 5 points less.
That's what I would...
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's kind of what I thought.
And the general question is -- your system -- I know you're being very conservative with the economy and so forth but with the airline restructuring what you're seeing in Dallas what you're seeing with Hobby with United with -- and actions they are taking -- and most importantly in Denver Frontier seems to be making a real comeback as their major hub there.
How is that affecting your airline operations there? Well I guess -- I think you put that one in the category of a general question so I'm going to answer you generally.
I think competitively we're matching it very well and seeing nice opportunities to pick up some business here at Southwest Airlines.
So I think most of our challenges right now are internal in other words managing our own transformation maintaining our own operations our own customer service.
But when it comes to opportunities for us to grow I think the opportunities are going to be there.
I think they're going to be there domestically.
I think they're going to be there internationally and to include Hawaii and Alaska.
Obviously we're going to be disciplined about our growth until we can justify -- make the reinvestments to grow.
But the opportunities are there.
And I would certainly include the areas that you mentioned as opportunities for Southwest.
And we'll go next to Kevin Crissey with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you just go through the capacity by month the capacity year-over-year by month? So October RASM is up 4 on what? How is that...
We can do that.
Yes we can do that.
Yes our October ASMs they were pretty much throughout the quarter roughly flat.
There was no -- you can just say seem pretty much flat each month here year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> And Gary just going back to one of your points and I may have discussed this at own [ph] to other calls and maybe it's adamant that I harp on.
But I'm confused.
You mentioned earlier about fare increases particularly when there's higher costs.
And conceptually I'm not sure I understand why that happens.
I mean I understand why you'd -- if you're having trouble making a profit you set a new schedule.
But I would think that the pricing would be just determined on the supply-and-demand on a market-by-market day-by-day flight-by-flight basis.
And really fuel prices going up or landing fees or any other factor shouldn't affect the pricing department's behavior.
They should be maximizing the price from point a to point b.
Why is that not the case? Here it is.
That's the case.
Kevin you can't piece all that apart.
I mean the market is going to react to changes in raw material cost so it's certainly going to be easier to pass-through price increases when demand is strong and there's pressure for the industry to increase prices.
That's all.
You have some market-driven exercise no question.
And ladies and gentlemen we have time for one more question during our analyst portion.
We'll take our final question from David Fintzen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Actually just segueing off of Kevin's question just for Gary.
I'm curious just given some of the economic caution that you're expressing and then just going back to the 2013 capacity outlook how should we think about how willing and able you are to start making adjustments there? Is that something where there's so much going on internally that it's going to be harder to make capacity adjustments as you need to? Well in -- don't let me read something into your question that you don't intend.
You mean to make downward adjustments to our capacity? Research Division</strong> Well I mean if you're starting to get more cautious because you've come under plan and you need to start to react to that in terms of the economy do you lose flexibility when you've got a lot of initiatives going on internally? Got you.
No.
Oh not -- I'm not challenging the validity of your question I think it's a very good question.
No no I think we have plenty of flexibility to manage our capacity.
Now we're published.
So we're published out through April and I think we just reported that we're about to publish our next schedule which I guess will take us out through June something like that.
So it is -- once we publish the schedule we would prefer not to go in and make material changes to that published schedule.
But every schedule that we publish though we're thinking about what kind of capacity we want to produce.
And I don't think we're telling you that our outlook for 2013 is pessimistic.
That's an optimistic someday [ph].
And I think the message is actually we feel like we have a very good plan for 2013.
What's built into the plan is already revenue improvements.
We're talking about trying to augment what is already planned and committed for 2013.
We're going to try to create a little insurance for ourselves here with some cost-control efforts.
And then fuel is always a wild card but we tend to be pretty good at hedging so we'll be looking for opportunities there at least on price.
You will notice that -- in the third quarter that we had a nice improvement in our fuel consumption by our operating departments.
So I fully expect that's going to continue next year.
So our goal is to hit our return target in 2013.
So given that we're not sitting here thinking that we need to make some significant adjustments downward to our capacity.
But in the end I think again just want to admit that we're prepared to do whatever we need to do to keep the company healthy to maintain our discipline to hit our target.
And -- but that's how we would think about capacity changes.
And I think the main point that I think is responsive to your question is: Absolutely we have flexibility to adjust our capacity.
Research Division</strong> And then just maybe a quick one for Tammy.
You'd -- I don't know if I heard you correctly.
I saw in the -- in sort of the progression of CASM x fuel x profit share next year did you say it sort of tapers off towards flat towards the end of the year? Or is it -- is there a step down at some point when we start to overlap the Evolve and some of the other things that hit particularly towards the second half of the year? I'm just curious how that profile is in there to...
Yes okay you know what again we're still working on our plan for next year so we'll provide more specific guidance later.
But it does -- there's probably more a step between the first half I would expect and the second half just given the timing of Evolve.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom.
And thanks everyone for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions of course we will be available this afternoon.
Thanks again.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President Communications and Strategic Outreach.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for participating.
We're going to go ahead and start with the media participants so Tom if you could give them instructions for how to dial up for questions? Yes ma'am.
[Operator Instructions] We will now begin with our first question from Sheryl Jean with The Dallas Morning News.
I have a clarification question first and then a follow-up.
Did you say that your plan was to reduce unit costs and pursuit cost controls will start next year or in 2014? Hi Sheryl this is Gary.
Yes we -- it's for next year yes for 2013.
And I think what Tammy was describing was that given the strategic initiatives and the construction projects if you -- if -- as we refer to them those investments.
Given the -- given those things that are in play they will match -- that investment will naturally begin to taper off in 2013 so that by the time they get to 2014 you'll have some nice cost reductions.
So that was her point.
What I'm saying is that in addition to that we're going to be looking for some spending cuts that we can make that would be effective in 2013 from our budgets in excess of $100 million.
That's what I said.
Right okay.
And so do those options for cutting costs include layoffs possible layoffs? Well that's always an option for a company.
But to be clear no that's not what I'm contemplating at this point not at all.
Now we may sharply curtail our hiring and our total employment in corporate functions if you will may begin to fall as people -- as we have voluntary turnover within the company so that may be one of our ideas.
But at this point I'm not suggesting that we're going to have layoffs or furloughs no.
Oh well there is a report out there that supposedly a letter went out from you to employees saying that there will be work force shrinkage next year.
Is that not true then? No it's false.
Okay.
And can you -- I also wanted to see if you could give some more detail on other cost-cutting opportunities that you might be pursuing in terms of -- if you could be specific? I'm not ready to be specific.
I think the array of things that we'll be considering would be getting supplier cost down getting -- creating more efficiencies in our supply chain looking for opportunities to stop doing things.
There may be some projects that we have underway that we just don't feel add enough value and we can simply stop doing that.
We can through that mechanism reduce the support that we need from outside contractors outside consultants.
There's a whole variety of techniques that we can use to reduce our cost.
And again to be clear on your memo question: It is our desire to control our hiring in such a way that we don't increase our total headcount.
What that would lead to is a reduction in total headcount.
So that may be what you -- I don't know what you have your hands on but in terms of actually asking people to leave or layoffs or furloughs no we're not contemplating that.
Okay.
So you have...
But we have techniques to manage our total employment by simply not hiring as to replace people as they leave the company or as they retire or whatever so...
Do you have a specific target of what do you want the headcount to be at the end of next year versus what it is now? I do but I don't know that I'm ready to share that just because we haven't committed to it.
But yes we would like to -- the -- as a percentage of the total company it's not going to be large but as a percentage of our corporate overhead it would be pretty meaningful number.
But we haven't committed to it yet so I'd rather not share it.
And we'll go next to Andrea Ahles with the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
So you talked about looking at other revenue strategies or revenue possibilities for 2013 so I'm wondering if you are reconsidering Bags Fly Free.
Well for now of course not.
I don't think we would ever say no to anything whether it's assigned seats or charging for bags but we'll be looking for any and all good ideas to see what we can do to augment our current strategies.
Can you give any more clarity on what sort of revenue issues at your time [ph].
Or have you started to put revenue initiatives where customers would be impact where they would be seeing more fees? Or are these more like partnership types of things that you've done with your Rapid Rewards and generating more revenues through the frequent flier program? I think at this point we're simply on a mission to see if we can come up with some ideas that we like that we think will be effective that will enhance the brand.
And it's just premature to tier any more than that.
And we'll go next to Josh Freed with the Associated Press.
You all have a competitor over in Fort Worth that had some trouble last month.
Did you see any looking-away from them to you? I mean it seems like maybe there would've been some benefit for Southwest through all of that.
Was there and how much? The honest answer is no I don't know that I could detect that.
And now I'm having trouble remembering what occurred in September versus October.
But our September results as you know weren't so great so there's no meaningful evidence that we saw a benefit.
But just common sense would tell you and me that we absolutely had to have some benefit.
There had to be some people that were booking away and there were a lot of canceled flights.
I know for a fact that we picked up a lot of customers on that basis.
But in any event I would assume whatever it was it's temporary.
And American is a good company and they'll get their act together and I'm sure they will continue to be a very formidable competitor for us.
All right.
The most recent fare increase that we saw go through that October 9 one it simply got started by United and then it kind of started to go away and then you guys came back and revived it.
Why the delay? I mean was there something special about this one that caused you to sort of think about it a little longer? I don't feel comfortable really talking about our pricing decisions and except to say that we aspire to be the low-fare carrier in the United States.
We're very careful about considering any increases in our fares very thoughtful.
And I don't think that that's really different from the last 41 years.
We're in an environment where costs for the industry are going up and fuel prices in particular over the last 30 to 60 days are up very sharply.
And right now we're staring at record fuel prices for the fourth quarter.
So that's our thinking and -- but beyond that tactically I'm not comfortable in sharing anything.
All right.
But last really quick question: Delta bought a refinery.
Do you folks have any interest in either that or anything that is sort of similarly outside the box on the fuel supply side? No.
I think that again over 4 decades we looked at and thought about a lot of things.
Fuel is such a major dependency for our transportation company.
It's a lot of risk it's not in our wheelhouse and it doesn't obviate the need for hedging.
So our approach will continue to be just do the hedging as the mechanism to best protect ourselves on price.
If we had a supply concern I think that would be different.
And that's a lot of what's going on there is a lot of refineries are being shut down on the East Coast.
It actually is beneficial for Southwest Airlines selfishly for Delta to be bringing that supply to the East Coast.
That just takes them -- yes they'll be supplying themselves but that means that we don't have to compete with Delta for supplies from the rest of the industry.
So on balance if that's what they want to do we'll cheer them on.
And I think looking at other alternatives to crude oil will continue to be something that we'll want to monitor but at this stage I just don't see anything in the near term that's commercially viable there.
But we're always looking for good ideas.
And we'll go next to Karen Jacobs with Reuters.
Thanks for clarifying the word on the headcount plan.
I had questions about that myself.
I'll direct my question it's kind of a question tied to labor as well.
You might recall that the TWU which represents the groups including ramp and flight agents at Southwest said that -- filed for federal mediation.
I guess it was a joint action with the company.
But in their statement they seemed to suggest that the company was taking a new approach to labor and some of the proposals that it had made in the -- on collective bargaining process basically calling some of the changes that the company was proposing concessionary and unacceptable including outsourcing jobs.
So my question to you is are you taking a new approach to labor? I'm -- Mike Van De Ven is our Chief Operating Officer and leads our efforts in these areas.
And I'm going to let Mike tell you what he thinks.
Well Karen it's not unusual for Southwest Airlines to go to mediation in our labor contracts.
And we've done that several times in the past.
And it's really just a way for us to work through very complex and difficult issues.
We have exceptional ramp and ops employs.
TWU covers a lot of our work force and generally have a really good relationship with them.
We have -- our competitive position with respect to our labor costs have changed for Southwest Airlines as a result of bankruptcies through all the other carriers.
What we're trying to do is make sure that we can protect our people's pay and our benefits and our job security and try to look for ways in the contract where we can get the right staffing of people at the right place at the right time so we can provide good service and grow our companies through those mechanisms.
So those discussions are difficult they are complex.
They're new approaches to our labor contracts that we've had in the past and so I think that's what's caused a little bit of the frustration.
We're not trying to outsource jobs.
Actually we'd like to have more part-time flexibility to bring part-time workers into Southwest Airlines and put them in places where we need them in terms of the demand.
So I think it's just a natural progress that we're going to work through.
And I wouldn't say that we're any -- have any other different approach than we've ever had.
We want to make sure that we protect our people's jobs that we pay them appropriately and that we have the most productive and efficient work force in the industry.
If I can have a follow-up.
I couldn't help but notice the other day that you brought on Mr.
Babbitt to -- as Chief of Labor Relations.
Is this a sign that you expect labor talks to become more contentious? Yes I don't think they're more contentious at all.
I think that the fact of the matter is we have complex and difficult issues to deal with.
To have somebody like Randy be available with his background and his experience and his approach to labor where it's very complementary -- he wants to work at -- with a -- in a partnership with labor unions to go find answers and difficult solutions.
To me he is the right person at the right place at the right time.
And we are so happy to have him join Southwest Airlines.
And we'll take our next question from Kelly Yamanouchi with the Atlanta Journal Constitution.
I'm interested in asking when you connect the AirTran and the Southwest networks together next year how large of an operation do you expect each of the carriers to have? And when exactly do you expect that to happen? Kelly those schedules are already published.
So in other words our intent is to launch the network connections early next year.
And the schedules are already published out throughout April.
So the -- it -- that is the size of the operation.
Now so what it means by connecting the schedules and I think particularly in Atlanta is that you'll -- on top of the current customer schedules that are published we'll have hundreds of new origin destination itineraries that will appear that can be booked.
So it won't change with our flight activity but it will change the itineraries that customers can buy and obviously we're very excited about that.
But Bob Jordan our AirTran President is here.
So Bob is there anything -- any -- anything you'd like to add please sir? Yes Kelly I would just say the same thing.
We've got a lot of opportunity in Atlanta Baltimore Milwaukee Orlando a lot of places where we share a lot of service with AirTran.
And so the customers there are going to see access to a much broader network particularly on the AirTran side where they'll be able to access a very broad Southwest network.
So you’ll see the same -- as Gary mentioned you'll see the same flight activity on each carrier that's currently published but you'll see a lot more itineraries on the shelves.
So if you go to southwest.com our airtran.com you will see a lot of things that you can buy that connect the carriers that are not there today as published in the April schedule.
So we're just really excited about that.
[Audio Gap] be -- would be a significant I guess shift? Not a shift in the schedules.
So the schedule that AirTran has and the schedule that Southwest has will not -- they won't shift in terms of what you see published already.
What will shift is you'll see connecting opportunities that are not published today.
So you'll have an AirTran flight for example that today cannot connect to -- in Atlanta as an example or Baltimore or -- that cannot connect to Southwest.
And once we turn co-fare [ph] on it can.
So you'll see a number of market opportunities and connecting opportunities that'll of course produce a lot of new travel itineraries for our customers and revenue opportunities for Southwest Airlines.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll take our last question from Gen Yell [ph] with Flightglobal.
Gary this is Sim Le [ph] from Flightglobal.
I just wanted to ask about the retirement of the 737s.
I think that -- earlier on that you mentioned that that will likely contribute to helping you to bring down costs next year.
Are you able to elaborate more on that? We have -- I think at our peak we had just over 200 so-called Classic 737s and the model types that we had are the 737-300 and the 737-500.
We've begun retiring those several years ago.
I think at this point I'm just checking my numbers here we've got 156 of the Classic fleet on hand.
By the end of this decade all 156 will be retired from the Southwest fleet.
That is sooner than what we had previously planned by several years.
And in fact our desire is to retire them on an accelerated rate and we may get them retired earlier than 2020 for that matter.
Those aircraft they're good safe airplanes.
They're not as fuel efficient as the current generation and they're more maintenance intensive than the current generation so we just feel like by retiring those and replacing them we'll have a more efficient more reliable more cost-effective aircraft going forward.
And just a follow-up to that.
But you would still be rolling out the Evolve project on about 100 roughly.
That's still going forward right? I'm going to let Tammy answer that.
So there are 342 Southwest 700s and those are the numbers that we've primarily been sharing with you.
In addition to that there are 52 AirTran 700s that will be reconfigured with the Evolve seating.
And then Tammy I'll let you speak to the Classics.
Yes.
On the Classics we are actually still evaluating those.
We do think it will make sense to do a good portion of those.
I don't know that it would be 100.
It could be something short of 100 but I do think that we will be putting the Evolve -- retrofitting the cabin on a fairly good portion of the Evolve.
I said 342.
It's 372.
I stand corrected.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Rutherford for any closing remarks.
Thanks Tom appreciate it.
Thank you all for being with us today.
As always if you have any follow-up questions you can call the communications folks at (214) 792-4847 or visit the website www.swamedia.com.
Thanks very much.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I'll be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's call.
Joining me on the call today is Gary Kelly our Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; Mike Van De Ven Executive Vice President and COO; and Ron Ricks Executive Vice President and Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer.
Today's call will begin with opening comments from Gary; followed by Tammy providing a review of our fourth quarter and full year results as well as our current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy's remarks and Gary Tammy Bob Mike and Ron will all be available to take your questions.
As a quick reminder 2011 full year consolidated results include AirTran beginning May 2 the date of the acquisition.
In order to provide what we believe to be a more meaningful year-over-year comparison on today's call when referring to full year 2012 results compared to 2011 we may provide commentary on a combined basis as defined in this morning's press release.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results such as combined results and results excluding special items please refer to this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And with that Gary I will turn it over to you.
Thank you Marcy and thanks everyone for joining us.
Welcome.
We're very pleased to share our fourth quarter earnings results obviously pleased to report increased earnings for the year 2012 a solid profit in fourth quarter slightly ahead of expectations and flat compared to 1 year ago excluding items.
Our operational performance and our customer service delivery were both exceptional in 2012.
Our cash flow from operations if you exclude all the hedging collateral changes was an all-time record for Southwest Airlines at $2.1 billion for 2012.
And it was an exceptional year for our shareholders as we were able to repurchase 46 million shares for $400 million reducing our shares outstanding almost 6%.
We also increased the quarterly dividend by 122% in May of last year.
We were also able to pay down $1.2 billion in debt since the May 2011 AirTran acquisition with the balance sheet leverages declining and very very strong.
Real story in 2012 was the progress that we made on our strategic initiatives.
There are 5 of those: all-new Rapid Rewards AirTran the introduction of the 737-800 into our fleet overall fleet modernization and then our reservation system replacement.
There were significant accomplishments in 2012.
There were significant effort and investment both from a capital and an operating perspective that were expended on these strategic initiatives.
I'm not satisfied of course with 2012's absolute earnings but it was still a remarkable year given the amount of construction work that is -- that was under way.
And our people are transforming Southwest and in the meantime they are running a great airline.
Business for us has been good.
Yields are up.
We've had some traffic effect but load factors remain near record levels.
The timing of Christmas and New Year's put the month of December behind trend and the month of January ahead of trend.
But all in all fourth quarter and first quarter bookings and revenue trends look very solid at least at this point.
Broadly speaking while we see a lot of encouraging signs in the broader economy we're monitoring demand closely for signs of any weakening by consumers resulting from the increased income taxes.
But at this point we're not seeing any signs of any weakness; at least it's buffered by a pretty benign industry capacity forecast.
And our forecast is showing that the industry will be down capacity-wise domestically in the 1% to 2% range in the first quarter.
So thinking about 2013 we want to preserve our strong culture brand and customer service levels; we want to maintain our operational excellence; and we want to regain our financial prosperity.
We have a plan to boost revenues this year by $1.1 billion over 2012 levels.
We also have efforts underway to increase our aircraft efficiency and utilization and also increase our fuel efficiency on a unit basis.
2012 cost pressures that we were -- that we've been seeing in maintenance for example and depreciation those will begin to ease in 2013.
And of course we're going to be very focused on managing our invested capital.
And in particular our capital spending plan for 2013 will be down from 2012 levels.
But the #1 deliverable for 2013 without a doubt is the connection of the Southwest and AirTran route networks.
That will put us in a position to follow up aggressively to optimize the combined networks as if it were 1.
And we have a number of markets that are not performing to our satisfaction and we will begin to address those gradually throughout 2013.
And of course that is one of our leading drivers in our plans to boost our 2013 revenues by $1.1 billion.
And of course that is what will position us to hit our 15% return on invested capital requirement.
So with that very quick overview I'd like to turn it over at this point to Tammy Romo our CFO.
And before I do that I would just like to thank all of our Southwest family one more time for a tremendous 2012.
So Tammy over to you.
Thank you Gary and good morning everyone.
2012 was a big year of progress for Southwest as Gary noted.
And I would also like to extend my gratitude to all of our Southwest warriors for their hard work and many accomplishments in 2012 that enabled us to report our 40th consecutive year of profits which really is a remarkable accomplishment in our industry.
Our full year 2012 GAAP net income was $421 million or $0.56 per diluted share.
And if you back out the special items our 2012 net income was $417 million or $0.56 per diluted share which was up 30% versus our 2011 EPS.
We ended the year with a solid fourth quarter performance.
Our fourth quarter 2012 net income x special items was $65 million or $0.09 per diluted share which exceeded First Call Consensus by $0.01.
Despite challenging year-over-year comps from the December holiday mismatch Hurricane Sandy and last year's ticket tax benefit our fourth quarter revenues were strong.
Our operating revenues were a record $4.2 billion driven by record passenger revenues and an impressive growth in cargo revenues.
Passenger revenues were a record $3.9 billion.
Passenger revenue yield passenger unit revenues and operating unit revenues were all fourth quarter record.
Also I want to point out we changed the income statement classification of certain revenues from purchase points in our frequent flyer program in the fourth quarter.
The reclass didn't change our total revenues our bottom line but was simply a shift of revenues from other revenues to passenger revenues.
And these points are largely redeemed for Southwest flights.
The reclass totaled $27 million for the first 9 months of 2012 and our fourth quarter 2012 results reflect $11 million related to this reclass.
For purposes of your models the impact on a monthly basis was immaterial versus what we reported to you in our monthly traffic releases.
On a unit basis passenger revenues grew 2.3% year-over-year led by strong October PRASM of close to 6% followed by a solid November especially considering the challenging year-over-year comparison.
December was impacted by Christmas return traffic as Gary mentioned falling in January.
But overall we had solid holiday traffic over the 2-week periods spanning December and January.
Passenger revenue yield increased 3.4% year-over-year.
We implemented 4 systemwide fare increases.
And while they had a positive impact to unit revenues the benefit from recent fare increases has been less than what we've historically realized.
And this is a testament to the challenging yield environment and just underscored -- underscores the nice traction our commercial team is making in this difficult environment and in the midst of integrating the Southwest and AirTran network.
We are seeing encouraging signs in our business travel trends.
Our mix of close-in passengers for fourth quarter was in line with the third quarter mix of 20%.
While our mix was relatively unchanged from third quarter revenue performance was encouraging.
We continue to be pleased with the strong revenue contribution from our ancillary products and initiatives.
Our Business Select revenues were approximately $23 million a fourth quarter record performance.
We recognized another $50 million in incremental passenger revenues from our Rapid Rewards program bringing this year's total incremental revenue recognized from our new program to $180 million.
As we've ramped up our all new Rapid Rewards program results have been tremendous.
Wright Amendment revenues were also tremendous increasing 18% year-over-year to $67 million in fourth quarter and with full year 2012 totaling $276 million.
We continue to be very pleased with the revenue contribution from the incremental 800 and Evolve seating.
The fourth quarter benefited by over $50 million from the incremental seats and full year 2012 in excess of $100 million.
Overall our EBIT contribution from fleet modernization was on track with our forecasted $70 million and we continue to anticipate a $300 million EBIT contribution in 2013.
Traffic and revenue trends thus far in January suggest passenger unit revenues will be up in the 2% to 3% range compared to January of last year.
On Monday this week we began selling available A1 through A15 boarding positions to customers 45 minutes prior to departure for $40 per flight.
This new option is not a replacement for our Business Select Fare or Earlybird Check-In but simply a creative way to generate revenue on premium boarding positions that are going unused.
We tested the new boarding option in San Diego just -- for just over a month and the customer response was very exciting.
While still very early on the results thus far from this week's launch have been encouraging.
Turning to fourth quarter freight and other revenue performance.
Our freight revenues grew nearly 17% driven by increased shipments as a results of better domestic economic conditions than fourth quarter last year.
We currently expect first quarter freight revenues to be comparable to fourth quarter -- our fourth quarter 2012 performance.
Other revenues declined year-over-year in fourth quarter largely due to the decrease in ancillary revenue from a reduction in AirTran capacity.
We currently expect first quarter other revenues to be comparable to first quarter last year.
EarlyBird revenues in fourth quarter was $39 million and for the full year $161 million far exceeding our original expectations.
We also recognized $70 million in fourth quarter from other seats.
As previously announced EarlyBird charge will increase from $10 per one-way ticket to $12.50 per one-way ticket effective in March 2013.
Beginning next month fees charge for certain check baggage will also increase.
In addition we plan to tighten the flexibility associated with our least expensive and most restrictive tickets later this year by implementing a no-show fee for customers that do not call ahead to cancel their ticket prior to the originally scheduled flight time.
All of these new 2013 revenue streams are expected to contribute an estimated $100 million incremental revenue.
Turning to fuel.
Our fourth quarter 2012 economic fuel price per gallon including fuel taxes was $3.32 per gallon which was in line with our most recent expectations and significantly less than our initial guidance of $3.45 per gallon at the beginning of the quarter.
Our hedging premiums which are included below the line and other expenses were $3 million versus $14 million in the prior year.
As always we provided a fuel hedge sensitivity table for your reference in this morning's release.
As all of our 2013 fuel hedge positions are based in Brent you will notice the chart reflects Brent average crude oil scenarios rather than WTI historically presented in this chart.
Based on market prices as of January 18 and our minimal hedge position our first quarter 2013 economic fuel price is forecasted to be approximately $3.30 per gallon including a $0.05 locked in loss.
As a reminder after first quarter 2013 we no longer have any exposure to locked in losses from our 2008 legacy hedge portfolio.
Our net premium cost for first quarter will be approximately $5 million.
The increase in our fourth quarter unit cost excluding fuel profit sharing and special items was in line with our guidance.
As expected investment in our fleet initiatives contributed about 1.5 to our fourth quarter cost inflation.
The remainder of the fourth quarter year-over-year cost inflation related to labor rate and health cost increases.
We currently expect first quarter unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to increase year-over-year in the 5% to 6% range.
However we expect year-over-year cost pressures excluding fuel profit sharing and special items as Gary mentioned earlier to ease dramatically in 2013 especially in the back half as we complete our Evolve retrofits and begin to realize more of our fleet modernization benefits.
On the nonoperating cost side our net interest expense declined year-over-year from lower debt.
We expect first quarter 2013 net interest expense to be comparable to fourth quarter.
We ended 2013 with $3 billion in cash and short-term investments.
And as Gary already covered our cash flow from operations was very strong at $2.1 billion and free cash flow for the year was over $700 million.
With our share repurchases and increased dividends we returned $422 million to our shareholders.
We repurchased $400 million of stock in 2012 or approximately 46 million shares and that totals $625 million or 73 million shares under our $1 billion authorization.
We made $578 million of debt repayments in 2012 which included the prepayment of approximately $19 million in December related to a high interest aircraft secured loan that we assumed as part of the AirTran acquisition.
Our leverage including off balance sheet aircraft leases continued to decline and it was 41% at year-end.
For 2013 we expect another year of healthy free cash flow.
Our 2012 cap spending forecast remains in the $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion range and our 2013 scheduled debt maturities are expected to be in that $200 million range which includes our intent to make a $20 million prem payment on another high interest aircraft secured loan from AirTran later this month.
Overall I am very pleased with our financial position as we remain investment-grade with strong liquidity modest debt and a focus on preserving our financial strength and enhancing shareholder value.
Just to give you a quick recap of our 2013 fleet and capacity plan.
For 2013 we have 20 firm orders for 737-800s and we expect to transfer 16 717s to Delta.
When combined with our Classic retirement schedule we expect our fleet to be down slightly this year.
We expect our 2013 ASM capacity to increase modestly in the 2% range year-over-year.
And of course this capacity increase is driven by incremental seats from the addition of the 800s and the 6 extra seats from our Evolve retrofits.
However on a trip basis we'll be down in the 2% to 3% range year-over-year.
For first quarter 2013 we expect capacity to be flat over -- versus 1 year ago.
And for second quarter 2013 we expect our available seat miles to increase in the 2% to 3% range year-over-year.
Overall just very pleased with our 2012 results.
Our people have done a just wonderful job navigating through a year full of tremendous accomplishments.
Looking at the first quarter January revenue trends thus far are encouraging as well as bookings for the remainder of the quarter.
We have significant revenue opportunities this year bolstered by our strategic initiatives in our new revenue stream.
We continue to work diligently to control our cost and we expect second half 2013 unit cost tailwinds year-over-year as we complete our Evolve retrofits and we begin realizing more cost benefits from our fleet modernization initiative.
We are starting the year with excitement and confidence in our 2013 plan that calls for reaching a 15% ROIC this year.
And with that Tom we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions here.
You talk about some of the ancillary revenue opportunities and I saw the press release out not too long ago that the Row 44 product I think it's in 300 or 400 of your airplanes.
What's -- how is that doing thus far? What's the uptake? What's the opportunity there? How should we think about it? Well I think considering that the installation time has been pretty lengthy and we haven't had a majority of the aircraft that were installed.
As a consequence we didn't have any marketing awareness or merchandising of that feature behind it in any meaningful way.
Considering that that's about where we are here Mike in 2012 I think it's done fine.
The reliability of the product was not where we wanted it to be in prior years.
It's now running -- last statistics I saw were 98% which is not quite good enough but it's not too bad considering the leading edge technology that it really offers.
So we did last year Tammy I think we did $5 million or so in revenue from the product.
Obviously we're looking for a lot more than that.
The take rates are -- escape me at the moment but I want to say that clearly long-haul has a better take rate than the short-haul does.
It's a little bit behind our expectations.
But again I would attribute a lot of that to comments that I've already made.
What is very exciting that we put in the press release and again our marketing folks are going to get behind the product this year and start promoting it much more heavily is we do have a live television feature.
It is really good.
They're going to increase the offerings with that.
And we'll also be in a position where we can offer some video-on-demand.
And that's just of course in addition to the straight up Internet access.
So I think it has a lot of potential.
I don't think that history is going to be a guide.
And I'm kind of anxious to see what happens here this year.
But with -- Bob so in terms of your $1.1 billion revenue plan it's not a material element of that.
It's not.
So I think that's just pure upside for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
Just my second question and Gary this is for you as well.
When I look at some of the DOT stats on part-time versus full-time employees one thing that sort of stands out and again this may be how they crunch the numbers Southwest seems to be -- seems to have a lot less part-time than most other carriers.
And you've seen a lot of the major carriers some of these has been through the restructurings that they've gone through.
They do have a lot more variable cost element to their business.
They brought on a lot more part-time employees.
And my sense is that that's going to become -- there may be more of a drive toward that direction given the change in health care costs and minimum thresholds that people need to work in order to be fully covered versus sort of pay on their own.
Is it because Southwest is historically been much more highly unionized than the average carrier? Has that prevented you from pursuing a lot more part-time type opportunities? Or what's behind that number? And again I'm assuming that the DOT sort of treats everybody on an apples-to-apples comparison in how they count this data.
Mike we -- just trying to cut right to the bottom line here we are more unionized than probably any other U.S.
airline.
But I don't think the original -- the essence of it initially was because we're unionized.
Now it is a factor in union contracts so we don't have the unilateral ability in all of our union contracts to have unlimited numbers or percentages of part-time.
So let me at least acknowledge that that is a constraint.
What is different today compared to even 20 years ago much less 40 years ago is the world has changed and the need for flexibility I think more than trying to avoid health care cost it's the need for flexibility that's really driving this where we don't have an even flight schedule throughout the day.
And now we're trying to get into markets like Key West Florida which has 2 daily departures.
So clearly you can't have full-time headcount complements there.
We do have a fewer -- we have a lighter schedule on Saturday as an example and obviously we don't need as many staff on a day that we have fewer flights.
And I think the future really is trying to get the flight schedule matched up better to customer demand and that will -- that clearly creates a need for more flexibility in the future than what we had in the past.
So for whatever reason the world has changed perhaps we didn't need as much flexibility 30 or 40 years ago clearly today we do.
Fuel prices are probably the big game changer there.
And it is definitely something that we will need to do in the future to be successful.
We'll need more part-time workers in our workforce.
And we'll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Trahan.
Gary is it possible for you guys to introduce checked bag fees without damaging the Southwest brand? Well customers hate bag fees Hunter.
So I think that by definition there would be an impact to the brand.
Okay.
Yes okay.
And I guess as we think about -- this is kind of a -- just a question about your frequent flyer accounting.
As your load factors have been driving up over the last couple of years is there a thought to maybe changing the frequent flyer accounting from incremental cost to deferred revenue? And if so what kind of impact should we expect on the financial statements if you were to make that change? Tammy do you want to answer that? Yes.
At this point we're not contemplating any change in our frequent flyer accounting program.
And we'll take our next question from David Fintzen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just as we look through the quarter there's obviously potential to get deeper into the quarter there's a lot of things moving around on the RASM side.
I'm just curious how sort of 2 factors plan to how we should think about the comp progression.
One is I mean it looks like you're running a schedule that's much more March heavy than it's been in the past.
So you have a nice -- you have a more of an uptick in ASMs in March.
And then the second thing is you've got the codeshares pulling in.
I'm just wondering how do we balance those 2 things? I mean should we be thinking about a March RASM comp that's more impacted by the capacity and not enough time with codesharing? Just any help there would be great.
Well I think that that is a fair question.
I think it's a little bit premature to suggest that we're going to have a challenge in March.
I think the best -- it's seasonal so I think the best thing we have going for us with a little more capacity in March is just the fact that that's when demand really begins to surge.
You are correct at least in my opinion in assuming that there won't be a whole lot of codeshare traffic realized in the month of March.
We really don't have all of that optimized until the 1st of April.
So March will miss that.
As we look at the broader economic trends it seems to support the current the sort of the fourth quarter unit revenue growth rate.
Tammy shared with you what we've seen so far in January.
And as long as the economy doesn't take a hit from the increase in income taxes which really [ph] doesn't -- there's no sign of that yet.
I'm not overly concerned about March.
Tammy I don't know if you want to add anything.
Yes.
The only thing I would add to that is just a reminder that March does have the benefit of early Easter versus April in 2012.
And then just as you think through the sequential trends January of course benefited from the shift on holiday traffic so when you look at sequential trends from January to February that would -- you just want to think through that as you compare that to average.
That's in -- I think when you look at how Easter falls if you look at historical trends where Easter was in March I don't think there's really anything at least at this point that we're expecting that would be unusual and as you try to trend this throughout the first quarter.
And then as you pointed out codeshare certainly that benefit would be more in April.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just even thinking a little longer term on codeshare.
I mean when you think back to the ATA codeshare and I know it's in much smaller scale.
But you obviously have a booking curve that's got to get into place.
But was there also any signs of sort of a spool up above and beyond that? Or is that once you sort of turn on the codeshare work through the booking curves you kind of get your fair share so to speak? Or is it consumers have to take some time to learn that it's out there? You're testing our collective memories prior to the summer of '08.
But it's pretty instant.
You publish these itineraries.
And that's where the brand comes in so strong as -- if you have people that come to southwest.com looking for itineraries they don't know what dots we connect.
And so it's pretty immediate.
Because that's the only way you're going to get it.
In other words we're -- you won't have billboards out there promoting these new itineraries so the only way people are going to find it is by coming to southwest.com.
So I think it ought to ramp up pretty quickly.
But again we're -- we don't have any way to -- there's no empirical forecast that we can share.
It's just based on our judgment and just the logic that you're applying.
And certainly that was our experience with ATA.
And we'll take our next question from Jim Parker with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it correct that your AirTran synergies are in line with your expectations? Yes.
They are tracking right in line thus far.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It would be a little inconsistent I guess with what we're seeing in Atlanta because you have taken down flights rather dramatically.
And I -- my question would be how is Atlanta as a focus point performing and what is your game plan? Because in the beginning we were concerned that it would take a -- it would have a very negative impact on Delta and now it appears actually it's pretty good for Delta.
So what is -- are you realizing the synergies in Atlanta that you anticipated and what's the game plan for Atlanta? Well I don't know that I can apply the synergies to a location Tammy as I'm thinking out loud here.
The -- and Jim the other thing that I am reacting to is the "taking down the capacity." So I think we're about in terms of total flights between Southwest and AirTran on a combined basis we're about where we were when we bought AirTran.
The problem with Atlanta right now -- the problem with the AirTran flight schedule right now is that it is suboptimized.
So we closed 14 airports in 2012.
At the same time we've begun to introduce flying at Southwest with the thought that it will eventually all convert from AirTran into Southwest Airlines.
So there is no doubt that it's suboptimized.
By extension because the majority of AirTran flying goes through Atlanta Atlanta is suboptimized.
So I don't think there's any -- there's no secret about that.
I think despite all of that we're still on track realizing synergies.
Understanding Jim again I think Tammy and her team have been very clear on this the synergies so far in '11 and '12 are really cost driven not revenue driven.
So '13 once we connect the networks and then begin this optimization effort this is the year where Bob and his team are going to be bringing a lot of revenue synergies to the table.
Yes Jim you'll start to see that flip a little bit here in 2013.
So as we continue to bring AirTran employees over to Southwest you'll see the -- we'll have more cost to synergies.
But of course the thought here and the plan here is that those would be more than offset as we begin connecting the network.
So clearly the revenue synergies will come on much more significantly once we codeshare and have the ability to optimize our Atlanta flying.
Yes David (sic) [James].
This is Bob.
I would just add a couple of things.
There are real positive signs in Atlanta like the gains we've seen at local passengers.
It really is as Gary said the inability to just optimize the networks because we don't have the connectivity.
So where we have been able to for example manage the capacity in overlap markets we've seen really good results.
A lot of that we just cannot do until we have the connectivity.
And so you're just running a suboptimized AirTran network in Atlanta.
The flight schedule I think we're -- as Gary said we're right on top of about where we are.
We might be down 10 to a dozen flights from a year 18 months ago but it's -- a lot of that relates to the number of aircraft that have been converted out of AirTran already to pull -- and we've had to pull the schedule down there.
But where we've had a lot of optimization techniques and changes are going to come with the connectivity that will be starting here in the next couple of weeks and continue to the first quarter.
And I'm just very optimistic about what that will do for our revenue performance once we can really optimize the combined network.
Jim again and hopefully we're not over explaining here but we haven't done anything in Atlanta I think is sort of the bottom line.
Except to begin the process of unhubbing it.
And so I think all of the cities that we closed were tied in to Atlanta.
So we're just -- this is the year where we really get to work on building Atlanta.
And the nice thing is we've had just such a wonderful reception in the community.
So we're very pleased with the reaction to the Southwest brand.
And I think we are in a -- from our perspective we're just getting started in 2011.
And to be at this point I think is very exciting for us.
So we got a big year coming up though for Atlanta no question.
And we'll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Regarding your full year CASM guidance any update maybe I missed it here to the sort of 1% growth rate that you've -- I think you put forth at Investor Day.
No update.
That is still our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just tell me what that assumes regarding new labor agreements and how you'd handicap a new pilot agreement this year? It is based on our current contract.
Research Division</strong> And how would you handicap the odds of a new pilot agreement this year? Well I -- that's nothing that I can predict.
So we are in negotiations with more groups than our pilots of course.
And we will have more groups coming online this year.
So we'll have a lot of labor discussions underway.
They're all productive.
And of course we have the benefit that we've always enjoyed here which is a very strong culture.
And I think our employees are very interested in maintaining our low-cost leadership and growing Southwest Airlines.
I think everyone understands we have to hit our prosperity targets.
So we're -- I think we're very encouraged about the support that we see on that front from our labor groups.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that detail Gary.
And then just with respect to the sort of priority boarding at the gate.
Can you talk about on average how many of those A1 through A15 boarding slots are typically open at departure? Or are you now blocking those off going forward? Well let me give it -- I'll let Tammy do a little math in her head here while I'm at least framing this up.
So I think you understand well.
But for everyone's benefit we have a new boarding process in 2007.
We bring out a new product called Business Select.
And that has more than just priority boarding as features with it and it costs more money.
In 2009 we brought out EarlyBird which allows for a $10 fee that will soon be $12.50 automatic check in and also more of a priority in the boarding process.
What we were missing was a feature or a product at the airport.
And so this is filling that gap.
We do 6% or 7% of our boardings I think by Business Select probably more than double that by EarlyBird.
So I don't think it will sell that many of this product.
There are plenty of the A1 to A15 boarding positions.
If you kind of back in with the math -- I just can't do that in my head.
But I wouldn't suggest that you all assume that we'll be selling 10 of these per departure.
I don't think it's anything like that.
And Bob your assumptions are much much more modest.
Yes.
The assumptions that were baked into the revenue plan that we shared with you at the Analyst Day were very modest.
And so we're talking about selling 1 or less than 1 per flight.
Because again as Gary said it just fills the gap in terms of something that's available at the gate.
Now we ran a test for about a month in San Diego.
And the test was very positive.
It was positive both in terms of the feedback from our customers and our employees.
We heard a lot of "wow this is the best thing you've ever done" kind of feedback from both sides.
And on the take rate we actually had a take rate in that test which was not publicized which exceeded our expectations so by a little bit.
So I'm very encouraged about the product in total.
It launched on Monday.
So we have just a little bit of data so far.
I wouldn't draw many conclusions from that but I'm very encouraged about number one the fact that the product does fill a gap that our customers want.
And number two that will hit the financial targets that we embedded in our plan for 2013 around that product.
Yes.
And just in terms of the potential benefit and what we have baked in to the plan.
As you will recall it's part of the $100 million guidance we have for all of our new 2013 ancillary revenue initiatives.
But just for this product it's potentially in the tens of millions.
So we feel really good about it so far based on the early results.
And again Duane we can wrap this up for you.
I'm sure we've given you more than you want.
But the -- just to frame it up Business Select our target was $100 million a year and we're real close to that in 2012.
EarlyBird is more robust.
So it's not $200 million but it's getting closer to that.
So this is far more modest than either Business Select or EarlyBird we think.
If it's better than that I think that will be fine too.
We'll take our next question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary just a follow-up on the bag fees concept.
Years ago when you introduced the no-bag-fees policy you used to talk about how much you benefited on the PRASM side through a load factor growth and even some yield strength by not charging the fees.
I'm not sure if you can quantify that benefit today.
But if you were to pursue bag fees wouldn't it follow that we'd see significant pressure on either yields or loads that could more than offset the benefits of the fees? Or has something changed about that framework today? Oh no.
I think you're exactly right.
And of course the longer -- the more the time goes by the more chance we have to research this and experiment.
But our judgment at the time was that we would be revenue positive by virtue of the fact that we would get more customers and that would outweigh the direct fee revenue.
In the intervening years from -- -- that was lost in '09.
In the intervening years our market share adjusting for capacity changes has been up as much as 2 percentage points at times.
So yes we've consistently shared that the best estimate that we had was about $1 billion increase annually from these market share gains which we attribute much of that to our baggage policy.
What marketing has begun to do more scientifically here in 2012 is much more specific research.
Because now customers know.
I mean they know what we do.
They know what others do.
And so you can introduce a series of questions.
And in doing that interestingly enough it supports the argument that we've been making that it would cost us and it would cost us something close to $1 billion.
Now who knows if that is true until you try to do that.
But in any event that is our judgment.
And we don't have any plans to charge for bags at this time.
Research Division</strong> Great that's really helpful.
And just some of your competitors have suggested that continued rationalization in the industry is going to raise returns at the legacy airlines mostly in the domestic market as opposed to international.
When you think about what that might mean for Southwest if it's true would that be an opportunity to ride sort of the rising tide of improving domestic returns? Or is that more of an opportunity to bring back this sort of virtuous cycle of taking advantage of markets where competitors are earning too much by growing market share and then using that growth to keep cost low and reinforce your advantage there? How do you think about that? Well I think our overarching goal is safety and financial prosperity.
And it is just through that mechanism that we can take care of our people take care of our customers take care of our shareholders.
So it has to be with the goal in mind that we're going to hit our 15% return on invested capital target.
Clearly if you think about the big 3 factors on us externally it's the economy fuel prices and competition.
So if competition eases in markets that's just going to make it more attractive for us and certainly could facilitate us hitting our 15% return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's fair to say that until you've hit those -- until you hit that return target we probably wouldn't see this -- more of this bringing back the virtuous cycle kind of angle? Is that a fair concept? I'm not sure I agree with your virtuous cycle terminology.
Research Division</strong> What I'm getting at is just more accelerating capacity growth.
Well the world is just not that black and white.
So the answer to your question in the sense that yes that is our overarching goal is to achieve financial prosperity which is specifically defined as 15% returns.
So that will be -- we've got to have a belief that we're on a path to do that or we shouldn't be taking any actions to the contrary of that.
Whether or not we're going to be more aggressive at a point in time or less aggressive with capacity I'm not taking that off the table.
I mean that's one of our biggest competitive advantages it's our low cost our superior customer service.
And you simply weaken a company by retreating.
So we'll definitely want to continue to be aggressive but mindful of the fact that we need to hit our 15% return.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> If I was to walk into the headquarters and survey Southwest employees as to which department wields more clout the finance department or the marketing department what do you think the answer would be? And the reason I'm asking here is when I think about your accounts trends and raising fares or first bag fees these do seem like good marketing ideas.
But as an analyst I'm conflicted in terms of the financial impact.
So I'm just kind of wondering which department carries a bigger stick for lack of a better term? Well that's like asking what's more important your brain or your liver.
You can't live without either one.
So they're all important and they all really carry equal importance.
And that's why I said I think the highest priority that we have at the company is to be safe and to be financially strong.
So those are -- they're not mutually exclusive.
Research Division</strong> Let me go at it about a slightly different way.
Let's say your revenue management team hypothetically you see strength across the board in all markets and decides that demand could support higher fares.
How does that process play out? What happens next? Do they walk into your office Gary? Do they walk to the marketing department to get approval? Do they have a unilateral power to execute an increase on their own? I'm not asking you to comment on future pricing.
I'm just curious when you've raise fares in the past how does the process internally play out? Well I think I'm the old CFO.
But the -- there are companies that are famous in the country for having the finance department control the company.
No our commercial organization is led by Bob Jordan and he is empowered to execute his plan.
No.
We'll tell you of course when we have -- when we're working on new ideas the A1 to A15 for example.
We always have that vetted by our financial team.
We are a team.
We work together.
But yes the -- particularly on the commercial side things are moving every single day and we have to make a lot of judgments hour by hour as they come at us.
Jamie we all sit very close to each other and we talk all the time.
So we are -- we vet everything and we work very very closely together.
I mean the nice -- and I'm not sure exactly where you're angling Jamie.
So we may not be addressing the essence of your question.
But the nice thing about this group is that they are a team.
And they don't even think the way that you're asking the question.
So it's -- we all share the same -- you will get the same answer from every person here when you talk about what we stand for where we want the company to go how -- what we're going to do to get there.
It is a very tight team and we work extremely well together and that's how we're going to win.
And we'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> When I look at your revenues over the last say 3 or 4 years the real revenue increase that you've seen recently has been as a result of the AirTran merger.
So could you talk a little bit about how you get to the next level? How you get the next -- well you talked about your goal for the next $1.1 billion.
But how do you go beyond that? Or is that it? Well maybe a contrast is helpful in answering the question.
If I think about where we are compared to the competition we're not dependent solely on fare increases from here.
We have a number of opportunities to optimize the acquisition that we've been spending quite a bit of time talking about this morning.
We have opportunities to enhance our revenue management.
We're going to be bringing forward new technology with a reservation system which has tremendous revenue-generating capabilities along with that.
And we don't serve beyond the 48 states in any meaningful way.
So we have opportunities to grow our loyalty to grow the number of customers that we have and also to obviously grow the number of destinations that we serve.
So we have enormous opportunities to grow revenues.
It just has to be done in a way that also grows profits and at the right return level so very different than our competitors.
And we'll always have the ability to expand beyond North America later.
But really everything that we're talking about is within the reach of the 737 as well.
So it's a very efficient way for us to expand.
Helane the other way -- just to make the point if you just look at what we've laid out for 2013 what we talked about at Analyst Day for example the addition of the O&amp;D revenue management the network changes to harvest aircraft out of block and turn these ancillary revenue ideas continued increase on All-New Rapid Rewards the addition of the seats to the Evolve and 800s those are adding in 2013 on the order of $700 million to the revenue plan.
So that is completely outside of the AirTran acquisition for the most part.
So I think if you just look at the plan for 2013 I think it proves that the -- the fact that there's a lot of opportunity.
And I guess just the last point to try to make here is and I think it relates to several of the previous questions that we are a brand.
And it is firmly affixed in people's mind and that is a good thing.
But we are a low-fare low-cost brand.
And so in answering your question and others' what we are -- what we're determined to do is maintain that low-cost leadership so that we can maintain our low-fare leadership and then it makes these things possible.
If we're going to change our brand then I think it changes the answer to your question entirely because I don't think we do have opportunities to grow revenues in a meaningful way if we're going to become a high-cost high-fare carrier.
So it all has to start with who are you and what do you want to be.
And I think so long as we're low cost and low fare we have significant opportunities to grow revenues.
And we have time for one final question today it is from Kevin Crissey with UBS.
Research Division</strong> If I just take your return on invested capital table and just simply do the math to get to 15% if we double your operating income and don't change the invested capital base you come out of it like 14.4%.
So you need to do a little bit more than that.
If we think about the mix between the denominator and the numerator how much should we expect of it to be coming from the improved operating income versus the reduction in the invested capital considering that your invested capital calculation is a 5 quarter average it looks like? Well I think we have already shared with you I've been pretty -- well actually in great detail what our numerator at least our planned numerator would be for the -- for ROIC calculation.
So obviously just mathematically the rest would have to come from the invested capital base.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional and closing remarks.
Thank you Tom and thanks everyone from the analyst community for joining us today.
Everyone have a great day.
Of course if you have any additional questions we are available this afternoon.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President of Communications and Strategic Outreach.
Hi Tom.
Thank you and good morning.
Everyone.
If the media folks would queue up then we will begin to take your questions.
So Tom if you could let them know how to do that.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll begin with our first question from Terry Maxon with The Dallas Morning News.
I'll have my usual parochial question.
The -- your first gates at Dallas Love Field's new terminal open I believe in April for you about 12 gates.
Yes sir.
In that interim 18 months between the time that you can fly nonstop anywhere out of Dallas Love Field how do you intend to use those 12 gates? Will you use them more intensely than you had at the -- at your old concourse and there's a period where you'll be using gates in both of them? Do you intend to step up your activity in the short term with the new gates? Will it allow you to do so? I think Terry the way to think about 2013 is it's pretty much a continuation of what you've been seeing.
So I don't think we'll have any major changes just because of the opening of the new airport.
As we get closer it's really more of a question about what are we going to do next year.
And we're in the I would say early stages of debating what our options are there.
A lot of it will have to do with obviously trade-offs throughout the rest of our system.
But the -- and Ron Ricks is here.
So I'll let him jump in.
But we've opened the ticket counter space on November 1 as you well know.
The concourse is on schedule to open.
I believe it's 11 gates first Ron and there's a 12th that's added very quickly.
I think there's some ramp or tarmac work that has to be completed.
And we'll move the vast majority the super majority of our flights over to the new terminals.
So we're very excited about that.
But that's just going to pick up Southwest as you know it today and move it over to some brand-spanking-new facilities.
We'll take our next question from David Koenig with the Associated Press.
Gary yesterday Scott Kirby talked about the high load factors and said they're offering a precursor to higher fares.
He wasn't talking specifically I don't think about his airline.
I wondered if you agree.
And also whether further industry consolidation might increase momentum for higher fares? Well I think that the fares at least from our perspective are a function of cost.
And we are finally in 2012 and 2013 getting adjusted to record energy prices.
So to have crude oil in $112 a barrel and us talking about hitting our prosperity a financial target is a pretty remarkable thing of -- for those of us who fought the battle here for the last decade to overcome fuel prices.
So that's the main driver.
As a practical matter if the market can't absorb those charges well then you're kind of left with an unsuccessful business.
So clearly supply and demand and -- are key factors in any economic equation.
And then of course it ultimately is at what price.
So if supplies stay the same and demand improves clearly there's an opportunity for pricing to strengthen.
Load factors are one indication of that.
But because we have such disparate travel habits between business travelers and consumers that's not always a good indicator.
But load factors absolutely across the industry are at record high levels.
That does indicate I think pretty good health of the industry certainly in relative terms to the prior years.
And as I reported earlier the industry at least in the markets that we serve is not growing capacity.
So if the economy continues to improve and demand continues to improve that would be a good healthy environment for everyone.
And then the consolidation part of that would more consolidation increase that momentum? It just depends on what is done in consolidation.
If consolidation is 1 plus 1 is less than 2 then that means you're taking supply down.
And yes I think that that would strengthen pricing if that's what happens.
And we'll take our next question from Andy Compart with Aviation Week.
Gary you said at the beginning of the analyst call that there are a number of markets not performing to Southwest's satisfaction and you'd begin to address those gradually during this year.
Yes sir.
If you can elaborate on how you plan to address them? Are these markets that you're going to pull out of to change the pattern of service change the frequencies? What's your thinking there? Andy I think it's all of the above.
And in some cases it may just be moving the flight times around a bit.
One of the things that Mike Van de Ven and Bob Jordan are working jointly together on is to get more of our flights concentrated between 8 a.m.
and say 7 p.m.
And so there are -- if we can improve the efficiency of the aircraft scheduling during the day there are opportunities to get more flights in that premium part of the day.
So you -- we have obvious things like that that we could do.
But it could be that short-haul markets are a perfect example Andy where 10 years ago we had far more frequencies in short-haul markets because there were far more travelers in those markets.
So we've trimmed out frequencies and I'm sure we'll continue to do some of that here in 2013.
I hope what we have less of is eliminating nonstop service between city pairs.
But again in this environment where costs have gone up fares have gone up and travel demand has gone down in certain markets that is a possibility too.
But for the most part it will be and Bob mentioned this earlier it's a matter of trying to improve the efficiency of the airline schedule and have better market timings for our flights.
And we have time for one final question today.
It does come from Ghim-Lay Yeo with Flight Global.
I just have 2 quick questions.
The first is about the retirement of 737 Classic.
I think it was Tammy who mentioned earlier on that you'll be retiring some aircraft this year.
Are you able to elaborate on that please? And I have a second question that's to clarify about your comments about Atlanta.
You said that 2013 is going to be a big year for the airport.
So does that mean you're looking at adding capacity back in the -- into the airport for the year ahead? Yes.
In terms of Classic retirements for 2013 we're expecting to retire about 13.
But again as I mentioned in my comments just from an overall fleet perspective we are expecting to maybe be down just slightly in terms of a number of aircraft.
And with respect to Atlanta Bob would you like to speak to that? Oh yes sure.
On Atlanta it's really not a change in the number of flight it's a change in the flight schedule so particularly post the codeshare implementation.
We can really begin to optimize the combined AirTran and Southwest schedules which of course most of that flows through Atlanta.
So you'll see what I would call pretty substantial changes in the actual schedule.
But not -- I would say not substantial changes in the number of flights in Atlanta between the 2 carriers.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Rutherford for any closing or additional remarks.
Thanks Tom and thank you all for joining us this morning.
As always members of our media if you have any follow-up questions you can reach us at (214) 792-4847 or through our media site at www.swamedia.com.
Thanks so much.
This does conclude today's call.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's call to discuss our first quarter results.
Joining me on the call is Gary Kelly our Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways who is actually joining us on the phone from Atlanta; Mike Van De Ven Executive Vice President and COO; and Ron Ricks Executive Vice President and Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer.
Today's call will begin with opening comments from Gary followed by Tammy providing a review of our first quarter results and current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy's remarks and all of our executives joining the call today will be available to take your questions.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance.
And a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially as this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items.
Please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And with that Gary I will turn it over to you for opening remarks.
Thank you Marcy and good morning everybody and thanks for joining us on our first quarter 2013 earnings call.
We're off to a very solid start in 2013.
Essentially right on plan.
We had record traffic and revenue performances in the quarter.
Until March at least we had a very stable revenue environment dating back to last fall and that was despite all the noise surrounding personal income tax increases and the whole federal sequestration.
We did hit a soft patch in March.
That's continued on into April.
I would attribute that to the above noise and along with the timing of the Easter and Passover holidays.
So we are seeing booking strength return for May and June.
And assuming that these May June trends continue they should be strong months.
We have wild swings in jet fuel prices already since the beginning of the year.
Prices have dropped from our first quarter peak over $0.50 a gallon and fortunately this has roughly offset the revenue softness that we've been experiencing of late.
And so assuming that these fuel cost trends also continue along with the May June booking trends we'll have a very strong second quarter.
There's much frustration of course with the FAA's implementation of sequestration.
All that's in the news.
And the Airlines for America which is our trade association is already in litigation over this.
And the furloughs of course just started Sunday.
So there's not a whole lot more to add at this early point other than it just needs to end very quickly.
I want to thank the Southwest Airlines people for an excellent start to 2013.
There are a number of initiatives that are contributing to the first quarter results.
There are a number that are still under construction.
Our top priority in terms of deliverables this year was connecting the separate route networks of Southwest and AirTran and that was done of course it's done on time done schedule and it seems to be producing significant incremental bookings for future travel.
The network connectivity of course sets the stage for us to aggressively optimize the networks this year.
We've already opened up 6 new Southwest cities as of April 14 -- 5 in fact on April 14 as a part of our optimization efforts.
And we announced that we will de-hub AirTran's Atlanta operation with what will end up being essentially the same number of daily departures just scheduled on a point-to-point basis and that will happen in November.
That will be a tremendous amount of work for our Atlanta AirTran ground operations employees and I want to extend to them a special thanks for all of their very hard work and excellent results.
And with that very quick overview I'd like to turn the call over to Tammy Romo our CFO.
Thank you Gary and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
Our first quarter 2013 net income excluding special items was $53 million or $0.07 per diluted share.
And that was ahead of course the First Call's consensus estimate of $0.02 and that was primarily due to our cost coming in better than we expected which I'll cover here in just a minute.
Our revenue -- and just a note on the profit that was a significant improvement over first quarter 2012's $18 million net loss which was driven by record profit in March.
Our revenue performance for the quarter was strong on relatively flat year-over-year available seat miles and our operating revenues were a first quarter record of $4.1 billion largely driven by record passenger revenues of $3.8 billion.
On a unit basis our passenger revenues grew 1.8% year-over-year.
As Gary mentioned our trends were steady through February and our January and February PRASM were each up over 2% and that was followed by a flat year-over-year March unit revenue performance.
Our unit revenue trends remain stable and on plan.
But of course March was negatively impacted by softer yielding traffic weather and weakness in close-in bookings which was more than offset -- which more than offset the benefit from Easter travel.
Although a little softer than we expected it's worth noting that our year-over-year March PRASM outperformed the industry on a capacity adjusted basis.
Despite an increased number of fees per trip our first quarter load factor was relatively in line with first quarter last year driven -- largely driven by more aggressive sales activity this year.
Although we experienced yield pressure our passenger revenue yield was also a first quarter record increasing 2.1%.
Our yields benefited from 3 targeted fare increases implemented in first quarter and thus far in April we've implemented 3 more targeted and 1 systemwide fare increase.
While softer yields have continued into April we are encouraged by the close-in booking trends in the recent weeks which are back to running slightly above year ago level.
That said traffic and revenue trends thus far in April coupled with difficult year-over-year comparisons from the timing of Easter suggest our passenger unit revenues will be down year-over-year in the low to mid single-digit range.
Bookings for May and June however are currently solid.
Overall we are cautious about our April trends and uncertainties surrounding the potential impact on travel and demand from government sequestration and tax increases but are certainly pleased with the improvement we've seen in the trends.
As Gary mentioned in his remarks our strategic initiatives and other revenue products helped our first quarter results and we've realized $70 million in net synergies from the AirTran acquisition.
We're pleased with our progress in first quarter and excited about the potential for the remainder of the year.
And with connecting capabilities now in place we have significantly strengthened our ability to optimize the Southwest and AirTran network and we're excited about the potential opportunities ahead.
Our schedule is currently out through October but we will be publishing our November schedule soon.
And we continue to be very encouraged by the strong bookings from connecting the networks.
Business Select revenues were approximately $22 million and we recognized another $20 million in incremental passenger revenues from our Rapid Rewards program.
And Wright Amendment revenues were also strong increasing 5% year-over-year to $64 million in first quarter.
We continue to be very pleased with the revenue contribution from the incremental -800 and Evolve seating.
And overall our EBIT contribution from fleet modernization is on track with our forecasted $300 million EBIT contribution in 2013.
So overall very pleased with the first quarter benefit from our initiatives largely contributing to our record passenger revenue performance.
We also had year-over-year growth in freight and other revenues.
Other revenues increased 2% year-over-year largely due to higher charter and EarlyBird revenues.
Our charter revenue benefited from increased demand from military and commercial charters for the Super Bowl.
We increased our EarlyBird fee by $2.50 per segment in February and EarlyBird revenues increased 17% year-over-year to $48 million.
We also recognized 5% increase in certain another fees contributing $69 million to other revenues including $3 million from our A1 through A15 at-the-gate boarding sales.
We're also pleased with the 5.4% growth in our freight revenues and we continue to expand our award-winning cargo service with integration of our AirTran network.
We appreciate all the dedication and the great service provided by our outstanding cargo team.
We currently expect second quarter freight and other revenues to increase from first quarter 2013.
Turning to fuel.
Our first quarter 2013 economic fuel price per gallon including fuel taxes was $3.29 per gallon which was right in line with our expectations.
This was significantly below first quarter 2012's all-time high $3.44 per gallon driven by lower Brent crude prices and lower mark-to-market losses only partially offset by higher crack spreads and jet differentials.
Our hedging premiums were $5 million versus $6 million in the prior year.
During the first quarter we significantly increased our hedge protection for 2013 to roughly 95% coverage for the remainder of the year.
And for second quarter approximately 75% of our positions are hedged directly in varying Gulf Coast jet prices with the majority of our protection beginning at $3.10 per gallon.
The remaining 25% of our hedge is in Brent with the majority of our protection beginning at $135 a barrel.
We use the combination of swaps and costless collars when layering on these additional positions.
We do have some floor exposure which was a trade-off we were willing to take to not spend anymore on premiums and still locking in hedge jet prices below our 2013 plan that we previously communicated to you.
Our net premium cost for second quarter is still estimated to be approximately $12 million.
In addition as prices fall we participate as indicated in our economic fuel price sensitivities we provided in this morning's release.
Based on market prices as of April 22 and our second quarter hedge position we currently expect our second quarter 2013 economic fuel price to be in the $3 to $3.05 per gallon range which is well below second quarter 2012's $3.22 per gallon and below what we assumed for second quarter fuel in our 2013 plan.
For the second half of the year just a quick update there we also have 95% of our estimated fuel consumption hedged with approximately 75% of our positions hedged directly to varying Gulf coast jet prices in 25% to Brent.
Our total 2013 premium costs are still estimated to be approximately $60 million and that's compared to $36 million last year.
We will continue to actively manage our hedging position to protect our 2013 plans from the impact of rising fuel costs while protecting our balance sheet from downside risk.
Beyond 2013 we currently have 60% of our 2014 estimated fuel consumption hedged 30% to 35% of 2015 and 2016 and 50% of 2017 through a combination of WTI and Brent positions with floors well below current market levels.
Excluding fuels profit sharing and special items our first quarter unit costs increased 2.8% year-over-year and first quarter airport costs were -- came in better.
That was a little -- that was better than our guidance and that was driven primarily by airport costs coming in better-than-expected due to favorable settlements that were not anticipated.
And while it's always difficult to predict timing and amount of such settlements we expect airport unit costs to generally be under pressure from cost escalation.
Operating costs also benefited from lower-than-anticipated advertising spend for first quarter.
As expected investment in our fleet initiatives contributed about 1 point to our first quarter cost inflation.
Maintenance included approximately $20 million for our Evolve retrofits.
Based on current cost trends we expect second quarter unit cost excluding fuels special items and profit-sharing to increase year-over-year in the 2% to 3% range which is similar to our first quarter performance.
We continue to track against our 2013 plan.
That assumes a 1% year-over-year increase in our nonfuel unit cost excluding profit-sharing and special items.
On the nonoperating cost side our net interest expense declined year-over-year from lower interest rates and debt levels.
We expect second quarter 2013 net interest expense to be comparable to first quarter 2013.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
We ended first quarter 2013 with $3.1 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Our first quarter 2013 cash flow from operations was a strong $983 million with free cash flow of approximately $450 million.
Earlier this month we increased our revolving credit facility from $800 million to $1 billion and extended the facility through April of 2018 under more favorable pricing terms.
The $200 million increase enhances our liquidity and flexibility to deploy more capital back to our shareholders.
During first quarter we returned $150 million to our shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases.
Our stock repurchases totaled $100 million in first quarter or approximately 9 million shares and that brings our total repurchases to $725 million or approximately 82 million shares under our $1 billion authorization.
We made $164 million of debt payments during first quarter and we have $149 million in debt and capital lease scheduled payments for the remainder of the year.
Our $313 million of total debt payments this year includes $126 million of prepayments for AirTran aircraft backed secured loans that we made earlier in the year.
Our leverage including balance sheet aircraft leases was approximately 40% as of March 31.
And based on scheduled debt payments it's expected to decline to the high 30% range by year end.
Our 2013 CapEx forecast remains in the $1.2 billion range and we continue to expect another year of healthy free cash flow.
Overall I'm very pleased with our financial position as we remain investment-grade with strong liquidity modest debt and a focus of preserving our financial strength and returning value to our shareholders.
And before I wrap up I want to give you a quick recap of our 2013 fleet and capacity plan.
For 2013 we have 18 firm orders for 737-800 and we recently leased 2 -700 aircraft.
We had 2 -800 delivery scheduled for late 2013 that shifted to 2014.
On the retirement side we expect to transfer 16 717s to Delta and combined with our classic retirement schedule we continue to manage to a flat fleet.
We expect our 2013 ASM capacity to increase modestly in the 2% range year-over-year which is the same as our previous guidance due to increased seating capacity from our fleet modernization effort.
For second quarter 2013 we expect capacity to increase in this 3% range year-over-year.
And for third quarter 2013 we expect capacity to increase in the 1% range year-over-year.
So in conclusion obviously we're very pleased with our first quarter results and we are making progress on our financial goals.
Although April revenue trends appear soft May and June bookings are solid thus far and we are benefiting from lower fuel prices that roughly offset the revenue weakness we've seen.
And we're of course also encouraged by the slight improvement in close-in bookings.
We have significant revenue opportunities in front of us this year supported by our strategic initiatives and new revenue stream.
And assuming current revenue trends hold and based on our current cost outlook the expected benefit from our strategic initiatives and the protection from our fuel hedges we expect record second quarter earnings and we remain on track to achieve 15% ROIC this year.
We also remain focused on aggressively managing our invested capital and again very excited about the opportunities ahead.
And with that overview we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question and it comes from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just on Atlanta as we look at Atlanta through the rest of this year are you continuing to cut on a combined basis? I think the flight activity -- I'm going to let Bob tune this up Duane.
So Bob you can chime in here in a second.
But essentially the flight activity is relatively flat as I recall between the various schedules that we already have published and what we are anticipating publishing for November.
The big change here in November is very straightforward.
We're moving off of the hub-and-spoke.
The current hub has an early-morning bank and it has a late-evening bank.
It is not timed well.
In fact it is timed poorly for local traffic needs.
So this will be a significant change for our product offering to and from Atlanta when we move through this in November.
And that's the substance of the change.
We'll have -- it's all -- for the most part the majority of the flights are still AirTran and that will be the case in November.
Remember that we still have by that time we'll still have 70-plus 717s and they are scheduled in and out of Atlanta.
But this will set the stage obviously for the AirTran operation to fold into Southwest operation late next year.
So Bob anything you'd like to add? Yes.
Just real quick.
Gary you're exactly right.
We have about 175 flights a day today and the November schedule will be just slightly less than that but that's really seasonality.
So we'll continue to have in the 170 175 kind of range.
AirTran has banks at 8 and 10 a.m.
and 8 and 10 p.m.
and they have a significant number of flights after 9 p.m.
which you know aren't really when our customers want them or need them particularly our business passengers.
They peak at about 30 flights or 30 aircraft on the ground during those peaks and the new Southwest schedule in November will have a maximum of about 20 aircraft on the ground at any one time.
So it just lets us put the flight smoothly across the day really lined up in terms of when our customers want the flights.
And of course the other thing we'll be focused on Duane is local traffic.
So this is actually bringing more competition to the market with more flights in the meat of the day and with an objective and an expectation that we will be generating more local travelers than what AirTran has been doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on capital deployment.
As you approach the end of this stock repurchase authorization how should we be thinking about the capital returns going forward? And as you maybe think about growth beyond '14 how do we think about balancing growth versus continued capital deployment? Well I think it's a little premature for us to give you a specific answer because we're not going to provide any new information on our share repurchase or dividend policy today.
But directionally we want to continue to have as our priority to hit our return on capital target and continue to enhance shareholder value through those 2 mechanisms and also put the airline in a position where it can grow the fleet and pursue attractive expansion opportunities.
So we want to balance -- I think the takeaway Duane is we want to try to balance all of those.
But clearly the #1 priority has to be sustaining our profitability and at levels that meet our return on invested capital target.
We will take our next question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Gary a question on the challenges that our government is currently posing for Southwest.
On one hand you obviously have sequestration.
Your competition intends to respond by pulling down 50 theaters but that's not an option for you.
Next we have the budget proposal $100 departure tax.
It seems to me that the impact of higher segment fees and PFCs would also weigh a bit more heavily on your passenger base than say United's.
And of course yours is the only network where automotive substitution is a meaningful threat not across the entire network of course.
Maybe these problems go away but if they don't how do we think about Southwest responding? And I'm thinking longer term here.
Does this impact how you select markets? Does it drive you towards the 737-900? Does it force you to rethink certain ancillary fees? Any thoughts on that? Well I think if the world changes Jamie of course we're going to have to continue to adjust.
The good thing about Southwest is we are in a transformative not just phase but of mindset.
So if those challenges become real I feel like we've got the leadership team and the people at Southwest to respond.
I think you bring up hypothetically all the kinds of questions that we would want to pursue.
On the short-haul aspect of the question though we've already aggressively begun to rotate Southwest out of an all short-haul airline into a longer-haul airline.
And there's -- you know everything that we've been doing and you know everything that we have planned through 2015.
I think the ancillary fee element of your question we're going to continue to -- regardless of what happens I think we're going to continue to evaluate whether we have the right mix and match of fares and fees so that in and of itself I think is going to continue.
Ron Ricks is here with us and if we need to get in more specifics he can certainly assist here.
But basically at this stage you have a budget proposal from the administration and there is nothing before Congress at this point.
So we're a long way away from those taxes.
And obviously the AirTran -- or the Airlines for America and along with Southwest will definitely not be supportive of that kind of an increase on an industry that's already overtaxed.
You didn't speak -- address directly to the FAA sequestration or maybe I missed it? But is there any comment that you were looking for there Jamie? Research Division</strong> Not in particular.
I mean that kind of folds into the short-haul question.
Actually the follow-up that I would ask and please don't let me stop you from adding more on ATC.
But on the short-haul issue ASMs per gallon rose to a record level in the quarter declining short-haul activity which you identified the drivers 737-8s obviously drive the metric higher as does the Evolve interior as will the exit of 717s later this year.
So I know you normally don't guide on this metric but perhaps you could give a little color.
I mean can you get above 75 ASMs per gallon by year end for example? I can get you there but you have to make a lot of assumptions on stage length and stuff like that.
It's kind of a wishy-washy analysis.
I'd rather fall back on yours in this case.
Well let me just say this I -- we can -- you know what is happening in our current results.
I think we can explain those very well.
In addition to all of the mechanical changes that are taking place with the fleet in other words bigger gauge retiring smaller gauge adding seats to the 700s Mike Van De Ven and his ops team also has fuel conservation initiatives on top of that.
So I feel very good about the momentum we've got.
What I don't have in my mind Tammy is a prediction about where we might be a year from now.
And just one thing Jamie.
I just want to make sure we're -- the first quarter 2012 fuel consumption PRASM that actually declined 3% year-over-year and we would expect that trend for all the reasons Gary just pointed out to you to continue.
We haven't given a prediction for that though.
So we've got more available seat miles per gallon.
So I think we're all square.
So I think yes it should continue to improve.
I just don't -- I don't have a ready forecast in my mind...
Yes we haven't provided one yet.
But it will...
But we can come back with one.
And we'll take our next question from Jim Parker with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Gary Tammy just reiterated I think your goal and your expectation on the reaching ROIC of 15% by the end of this year.
And I think you said in the previous call when you get to 15% ROIC that you're going to reconsider capacity growth.
I'm curious if your capacity discipline is independent of the industry? Is your capacity discipline largely based on benefits to Southwest or benefits to the industry which in turn impacts Southwest as the largest carrier? Jim I'm not sure I understand the nuance in your question so I'll give an answer and you can redirect.
But clearly we're going -- our duty is to manage Southwest Airlines and I almost feel silly saying that to you.
I know you know that.
We'll be looking at opportunities that we think will be successful within the industry.
And it well said a different way we'll want to factor in the competitive environment of us adding flights in new markets.
So we have our sights on some expansion opportunities where we believe that we will be successful competitively and we'll be able to expand and hit our return on capital.
So I'm not sure exactly where your thought is headed beyond that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well my thought is are you inclined perhaps to increase capacity that certainly enhance the Southwest profitability in a near-term basis but perhaps causes the industry some detriment or causes the industry to say "Hey we need to start expanding capacity." And this capacity discipline becomes unraveled a bit for the industry? Well I think that all of that is factored into -- yes I would just say that our expansion thoughts would have a long-term view not a short-term view.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That benefits the industry as well? I think our duty here is going to be solely Southwest Airlines because in the end that has to come back to either a positive or a negative effect on us for us to care.
In other words we've been a disruptive force for 5 decades and because we had a competitive advantage to bring to the marketplace whether that was good or bad for our competitors.
So I don't see us changing that mindset.
We'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Cowen Securities.
Research Division</strong> Gary I just wanted to ask you a question about something you actually said with respect to ancillaries.
You've been really opposed to some of the fees that some of your other airlines I guess peers charged.
But I noticed the change in your ads to kind of focus on more soft ads rather than the harder hitting Bags Fly Free ads.
So is that kind of a way of starting to move towards other fees? Or is that like too much that I'm reading into it? I think it's reading too much into it.
And of course there has been a lot of speculation.
The nice thing about our current campaign which has been out since March is that it -- people noticed.
It's created a lot of discussion and mostly fans of our new ad campaign but of course there's always going to be those that don't care for it.
But I think we just have a challenge at Southwest because there's so much to sell.
And a lot has changed at Southwest Airlines since 2006 and we really did want to have a fresh approach and create re-awareness if you will and perhaps retrial from those who are thinking of us the way we were 10 years ago we just have a whole different customer experience.
So rather than focusing on one feature like Bags Fly Free or our All-New Rapid Rewards program we now have an array of things that we want to message to our customers.
So this is more anthemic.
I've read that this is unique for Southwest.
It is not.
We've done anthem campaigns before and I would just point you to our Freedom campaign in the 1990s.
We're not changing the essence of Southwest.
We still are low fare we still have Bags Fly Free there's just a lot more to Southwest Airlines than not charging for bags.
So that's where we're headed with the campaign.
And as usual this is more art than science and the campaign will -- it will go somewhere.
So it will either resonate with our customers and drive the kind of reaction and benefit that we want.
And if not then we'll obviously evolve the campaign.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just want to follow that up with one unrelated question with respect to employee productivity.
You're flying more aircraft with fewer people.
And I just wonder is there a room for additional productivity improvements or is that starting to peak? Yes ma'am.
So we are flying more airplanes with fewer employees is...
Research Division</strong> That's a better way to say it.
There was a slight improvement in productivity if you will there.
I think there's going to be a little bit of messiness in some of those metrics over the next couple of years simply because there are a lot of flights at AirTran where the work is contracted out and the headcount are not in that statistic.
And when we move at least some of the work in the Southwest Airlines it may change the headcount.
I think that your fundamental question is are there -- forgetting some of this arithmetic are there opportunities to improve? And the answer is absolutely yes.
And we already of course have very good -- harkening back to Jamie Baker's earlier question we not only have opportunities to improve the available seat miles per gallon but we have the same kind of opportunities apply for available seat miles per person.
So we'll not only look for improvements with our current initiatives but we'll be looking for new initiatives where we can improve our productivity going forward and immediate objective that we added for our 2013 plan that we shared with you all last December so in other words this is not new -- breaking news but it's just to remind you as we do feel like we've got opportunities to improve our productivity within our corporate overhead and that is something that we are working strenuously on here kind of behind the scenes if you will in 2013.
There are opportunities to centralize and consolidate and I think significantly improve some of our overhead functions.
And I'm very pleased with that and I want our headquarters folks to be leading this effort for the rest of the company.
We'll take our next question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have 2.
Gary I just wanted to follow up on Helane's line of questioning.
It sounds like you're pretty sort of familiar that people are sort of trying very hard to read between the lines of everything that you say and Southwest does and to see if there are any cues for fee initiatives that are going to surprise us whether it's bag fees or not and I was hoping that you could just sort of address the issue I guess kind of directly.
As we look at the next couple of years is Southwest an organization that's positioning itself for future where fees and other ancillary revenues and they might not be bag fees but they are potentially big play a major role in driving revenue? Or is that just not is that whole line of questioning just going down the wrong path? Well it is and it isn't.
There is no -- I'll try to be consistent with what I said before.
And if I'm not you catch me John.
But there's no intent here to change the positioning of Southwest Airlines brand with this ad campaign.
Our brand includes Bags Fly Free.
Period.
Now what we are busy doing in Southwest Airlines is to create capabilities so that in the future we can make tactical decisions much easier than what it takes us today.
And that includes -- the easiest example there would be our reservation system technology which we will replace and adding the capabilities to be international.
What I have said and I'll repeat is that our brand is not built around not charging for a bag.
That's not who we are.
We're a low-fare airline with -- that highly values customer service.
And so that is the primary filter that we'll want to have.
There was a time where Southwest was very proud of the fact that we never had an advanced purchase fare.
And of course over 3 decades things change and now customers don't care about that.
So we'll -- I don't want us to be pinned down into perpetuity on what we might or might not do and I want us to be sure that we have the capabilities to make those kinds of choices in the future.
But beyond that no.
There is no change that is imminent with this ad campaign.
Research Division</strong> And Gary just to follow-up it's not just the ad campaign.
I mean we saw the recent hire from Spirit so there is a lot of cues that I think I hear about at least that people try to pick up on.
So just forgetting about bag fees for a second though when you kind of think about the opportunity in front of Southwest over the next few years do you see non-passenger revenue playing a much more meaningful role in some capacity over the next few years than it does today in the revenue profile? John today? No.
So talking about 2013 no.
We think that we have the best combination of features and fares only then -- the only element to that is you know and we know that there are things we are building that we want to be able to do.
And again I'll use international capabilities as the example there.
I wish we could do international now in other words.
So I would certainly supplement what we're currently doing by saying yes we want that.
The -- where the world is 3 years from now we don't know.
I mean for all we know customers will say 3 years from now we want you to separate out bag fees.
And if that's the way the world goes and that's what customers want we need to be in a position where we can react to that.
But that's not where we are today.
All the research that we have shows that we would negatively impact our revenues by close to $1 billion a year through the defection of current customers if we charge for bags which is about as direct as I can be.
I'm not willing to sit here and tell you that that will be the case 3 years from now or 5 years from now.
And if customer attitudes change well then we just need to be in a position where we change too.
By extension I don't think that ancillary revenues in today's environment are the answer to hitting our earnings target.
I think the answer is we must optimize our route network.
Period.
That is the #1 objective and that's why that's the #1 deliverable for 2013.
We have very significant opportunities to drive unit revenue improvement from where we are by eliminating underperforming routes and redeploying that aircraft and managing our capacity very very carefully.
That is the #1 opportunity that will dwarf any ancillary fee idea.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And if I could just ask for clarification on guidance.
This might be better for Tammy.
But you reiterated the 15% ROIC target goal this year.
Revenue has clearly been softer than the 4% to 5% that you were talking about at the Investor Day for no fault of your own.
But is the right way to think about it as we model this that the lower fuel that we're now forecasting through the end of the year should trade-off one-for-one with revenue and we should adjust down that RASM that 45% RASM target that you had spoken to? Is that the right framework or do you think it's going to net even more positive? Can you just help me kind of think about that? At this point of course we don't know what fuel's going to do.
We're clearly trying to maximize our revenue.
But clearly a lot of that depends on the economy and factors that are outside of our control.
But certainly to the extent we can control it we're still focused on maximizing revenue.
But certainly at the end of the day our goal is the 15% ROIC and at least thus far the revenue weakness has been roughly offset by the decline in fuel prices.
Research Division</strong> So we should try our best to kind of make that adjustment but hit 15% ROIC by the end of the year that's how you would think about it? The 15% is our goal.
We'll take our next question from David Fintzen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A question for Gary.
I mean just going to your point about the network reallocation being the big lever I'm curious.
Now that you have a little bit of time with codeshare under your belt obviously for a very limited time but at least a little bit I'm curious how you're seeing sort of the international connectivity develop relative to domestic and how does that play into schedule sort of November and beyond? Is that another -- is that codeshare working in a way that lets you sort of use your international as a bigger lever to reallocate the network? Or just curious how that's trending? Not really.
And -- so let me just give you -- and Tammy may want to share with you more specifics.
I know she shared some information about the incremental bookings from connections.
But the -- we're seeing a very strong response first of all to the new itineraries that we've published because we have been able to connect the network.
So that's argument number one.
And again I'll defer to Tammy to share with you maybe how much that is.
What we are not comfortable with yet is concluding how many of those bookings are incremental simply because we would admit that an itinerary a codeshare itinerary could simply be now occupying a seat that got squeezed out and got displaced that we would've carried anyway on other itineraries.
So I'm sure you're familiar with that concept.
When you move now over into international the international routes as a whole are performing very very well.
They were -- are 100% AirTran.
As you know Southwest flies no international routes.
The total capacity deployed in international as a percentage of our total network I want to say is 1%.
It is a very very small component of our capacity.
So at least in the near-term even if we were to double the flying in that market it's still going to be relatively insignificant.
Now AirTran has been under -- our management has been reallocating some of its flying.
It has allocated some of its flying to new international markets and I think we'll continue to do that.
And there's a lot of tactical reasons for that.
One is we're pursuing route authorities and as they become available we apply for them.
If you get them you got to fly them.
So you have those kinds of things.
But for the most part there aren't a lot of changes that you should expect within AirTran international.
It will be 2014 of course before Southwest is in that position.
And it's no secret so I'll just repeat it.
Houston Hobby is a very good international expansion opportunity.
It will not happen during AirTran's flying so it will be 2015 at the earliest that those facilities will be ready.
But clearly that will be -- that's an expansion opportunity that Southwest will be prepared for and will have our eye on.
So that's at least one example of how we're thinking about international in the near-term.
Research Division</strong> That's incredibly helpful.
I would be curious if there's anything Tammy can add just in terms of more tactically how to think about sort of codeshare run rates and then how to think about it over the bulk? We start to see the benefit in May just to help kind of guide our RASM thinking.
Before Tammy answers let me just make one clarification.
The -- and just to be sure you know what I was trying to say there.
The international flying is relatively small but it does connect into the codeshare.
So those itineraries are out there for sale and that's included in the total numbers that Tammy's going to talk about here.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Yes.
And as I mentioned of course the bookings continue to be strong and from connecting itineraries and our ability to sell each airline the AirTran and Southwest flights our daily bookings are averaging over $3 million in revenue per day.
But as Gary pointed out that is not all incremental.
And I guess the best guidance we can give you really goes back to the synergies that we've provided all of that is baked into our synergy number.
And of course the fact that they are so strong gives us further confidence that we'll achieve our synergy target of $400 million.
We'll take our next question from Bob McAdoo with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kind of wanted to go back and just a very quick little question kind of back to the earlier question-and-answer portion about -- where you're talking about de-hubbing Atlanta.
And I understand the concept and obviously it makes a lot of sense what you're doing in terms of spreading it out and having shorter peaks or not so tall peaks or however you want to say it.
But the other piece of that that I wanted to kind of understand is as we start to watch the last few changes it becomes clearer that there are a number of cities that as AirTran disappears say from a Rochester or a Flint or whatever the service from Rochester or Flint into Atlanta also disappears.
And I wonder is that a part of the de-hubbing process as well in terms of reducing the number of cities that you use to actually serve Atlanta because like Buffalo and other places that are up there by Rochester? Should we think that those are also going to not have service and that...
Yes.
Bob I think you are -- I think you were thinking about it correctly.
And I'll queue up Bob Jordan too because he'll remember better where we've been and where we are and where we're headed here.
But it's a conversion process taking place over 36 months first of all.
There were cities Bob McAdoo that were eliminated from the AirTran route network last year.
And so that -- you could say that that impaired their hub performance to some degree already.
Now some of those -- back to the previous question on international some of that flying that was feeding the Atlanta hub was redeployed to international route opportunities and we think wisely so.
But the -- but if you just looked at the performance in the Atlanta hub we're still not satisfied with it and obviously believe that the solution is to make this conversion to the point-to-point system.
Now one little factoid that I've enjoyed as an example is if you remember all the Wright Amendment deals and how that compromise was reached Southwest can't fly at the DFW without giving up things at Love Fields.
So AirTran had when we bought them nonstop DFW to Atlanta service.
We're carrying more customers between Dallas and Atlanta now without nonstop service.
So that's the power of the Southwest network.
And so I am very comfortable that -- and I'm pretty sure your Rochester example is accurate that we -- yes we will not necessarily have nonstop service to Atlanta but we're plugged in now to San Antonio and of course the Dallas example and often Texas just to think about close to home here and that is driving a significant amount of traffic whether it's on native Southwest or whether it's on the Southwest-AirTran combo.
And so I think there's every reason to believe that our strategies going to work and work well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I was just trying to think about that as compared to something like Denver where it seems like you're kind of hooking up every possible city into Denver.
But here there's a lot of cities where there's been this history and it's being unhooked and I was just trying to get that in my head as to where this was all headed.
Again your question is -- all questions here are very good.
But the thing that's a bit different about Denver as compared to what you're seeing with the AirTran Atlanta is that Denver doesn't really have a Rochester.
So Rochester and Flint and Grand Rapids and a number of -- Des Moines a number of these cities are very small by typical Southwest standards and you don't have a good example in Chicago or Denver or Phoenix et cetera so we're trying to make these new cities work.
And just because they're not flying to AirTran doesn't mean that -- I'm sorry to Atlanta doesn't mean that they won't work within the Southwest system.
But Atlanta could be a large "hub-like operation" like Chicago Midway for us someday.
But right now I think we're very happy with evolving at this point-to-point network system first and then obviously with the hope and the desire that we can grow it from there.
We'll take our next question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Gary just 2 questions here.
On the Atlanta as you go from the hub to the point-to-point you'd probably very likely will need less gates.
My sense is that there'll be less planes on the ground.
Is there an opportunity there to maybe reduce the footprint with the infrastructure? I know you just indicated that you aren't still satisfied with Atlanta and I think some of that may have to do with costs and the fact that you're carrying a decent amount of overhead there.
Is there anything on that front that could bring down the cost fees? Mike I don't think that that's a major item.
The footprint just the physical footprint of a 717 is going to be different than a 737.
So in terms of just square footage we could probably -- we would probably have less gates anyway if you're following my math there.
But no I don't -- first of all Atlanta as it exists today is a very cost-effective airport.
It's gigantic.
It gets congested at times but its costs are low.
So I would certainly not complain to you about the cost "burden" of the Atlanta Airport per se.
We're always looking for opportunities to optimize our fixed costs like that so we'll be looking at that.
But that is not anything that I have in my mind.
And Mike is here with me.
I don't think that we're going to be giving up or talking to the airport about giving up any space at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my second the -- I believe you said it's -- what is it? $3 million per day from the connecting itineraries with AirTran? Mike that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Is that -- okay Tammy is that $3 million is that a gross number or would that be net of...
That is correct Mike and that was the point we're making.
Of course not all of that is incremental and again but we've factored all of that into our synergy target or guidance of $400 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When I meant net though I know you were saying that maybe some of those passengers were ones that maybe had previously flown over the system.
But I'm thinking more about like forgone service fees or bag fees.
Is that in that number or would that take that number down some? And I guess that'll be very hard to estimate with that...
Yes that's not included in that.
That's not included in our number.
But Mike I would quickly add that Southwest has consistently outperformed AirTran on a unit revenue basis.
So I don't think that's -- you asked a good question that we'll want to think through but I don't think that's a material piece of the analysis here.
I think the bigger question is -- I think the bigger question of the $3 million incremental well our folks obviously are doing work to determine how much is incremental so we have some read on that.
I just am not comfortable that there's enough history for us to draw meaningful conclusions yet.
But you can give it a substantial haircut.
It's still a gigantic number so...
Yes.
And again it's still early on but my guess is it'd probably 1/3 maybe of that but we want to get a little more history under our belt here.
Yes I'd be happy with that.
Yes.
That's all factored into the synergy target.
Research Division</strong> You can't -- that's a very big number.
I won't be disappointed.
We'll go next to Glenn Engel with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One did you give out a number on what's the close-in bookings were percentage this year versus a year ago? No not yet Glenn but I'm happy to provide that.
Our mix of close-in passengers for first quarter was 21%.
Research Division</strong> And last year was? Last year was the same exactly.
And that's up a little bit from fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And how much at-risk is left in the ancillary fees of AirTran? Say it one more time? Research Division</strong> AirTran is charging fees.
Those will eventually go.
How much at-risk is that left? Oh how much is left okay.
Just what? In terms of what the AirTran? Those were in the $30 million range Glenn.
In the quarter.
That's correct.
And Glenn I think I know where you're headed with your question.
That's initially why we bought AirTran.
I think they were generating about $300 million a year in fees that -- fees that we don't charge.
And so yes we were trying to figure out how we transition from AirTran to Southwest and keep the profit wheels on.
And it's just we haven't had a problem with it.
So the -- I think again we've been pretty pleased with the revenue conversion process here.
Yes.
And I think we've been managing that really well.
So just the other components what I gave you was just the bag fees in total.
It was closer to $50 million.
But just keep in mind too Glenn that we're continuing to increase other fees on our side.
And again I'll just point you back to what I reported on earlier.
We recognized a 5% increase in various fees which contributed to $69 million in other revenues and that includes -- that included some of our incremental ancillary revenue opportunities like the A1 through A15 premium boarding.
So I think we're managing through that pretty well.
And I think Tammy that -- Glenn if this is helpful I think the AirTran footprint if you will has shrunk about 25% since we initially acquired them.
So all the 717s are still flying of course in AirTran and there's 88 of those.
And we've moved 18 or 19 airplanes or will have moved I guess that many airplanes by the end of this year.
So we'll have 30-some-odd 737s that are left to be converted next year if that gives you a little bit of help there.
Research Division</strong> And finally why isn't the revenue synergies translating into RASM outperformance relative to the industry? And when would you expect that to happen? Well I'll start giving you my view and Tammy may have a little bit different view.
The opportunity to improve revenues from just fundamental market share gains or fare increases is really optimizing the network.
So our network is sub-optimized and I do think that that is a drag.
What is offsetting that drag is the list of initiatives benefits that Tammy walked through.
One reason that she has been saying that we're still determined to hit our return target for this year is because the step-up in the unit revenue trend improvement is really second half-loaded.
So the real power this year in driving the revenues is going to come from connecting the networks and then secondly optimizing the networks.
It looks like -- I believe all these numbers are very solid so it looks like we're seeing very solid gains from the -800s; we're seeing very solid gains from the Evolve seating; they are literally outperforming the 137-seater version by the actual number of additional seats.
So In other words there -- on average there are 6 more passengers on the Evolve flights and there are 38 more passengers on the -800 flights.
So they look very very strong.
And that is absolutely a revenue contribution.
That is just irrefutable.
The other piece that is very easy to monitor is the frequent flyer program.
We know exactly what we're getting from our partnerships there and the cash flow has been very very strong.
So it just suggests that there is perhaps some under -- some other underlying weakness that is offsetting.
But in any event our trends until March were real stable.
Month in month out we were sort of up 15% [ph].
While we've got all these things going on within AirTran to get it converted actually Glenn I'm pretty pleased with that.
And I don't have a lot to add to that Glenn.
The only other thing I would just point out again or emphasize is just the connection of the networks through codeshare here in April.
We of course just operate -- just started operating all of that this month.
And as I mentioned earlier we've realized $70 million in net synergies from the AirTran acquisition and only about maybe 50% of that related to revenues.
So just to emphasize the point there's still we believe significant revenue synergies to come.
We'll take our last question from Jeff Kauffman with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Unfortunately I think I know what your answer's going to be.
But we recently had a consolidation of 2 carriers you compete with materially in the Southern U.S.
They filed to plan a reorganization.
You talked about adjusting capacity for Southwest.
As you're looking at the competitive landscape now that the major consolidations are done how do you see this changing the way you're thinking about your capacity over the next year? So have you already planned for this? Or now that the plan of reorganization has been filed do you view the competitive landscape a little differently in Phoenix Dallas and some of the East Coast cities you operate out of? I'm not sure why you said unfortunately but you'll have to tell me.
Research Division</strong> Fair point.
Well sure.
I mean the major inputs into our thinking about the future there's 3 of them.
There's the economy there are fuel prices and there's our competition.
So it is an input.
It is not the input.
Whatever we do we need to achieve our objectives.
We want to take care of our people we want to take care of our customers we want to take care of our shareholders.
We've got to hit our profitability target.
Period.
And if there are competitive changes in the industry that help facilitate that and also lead to growth opportunities I think that's fantastic.
But there's a lot said and written about consolidation.
Bankruptcy is a separate issue although they do get connected in a sense.
I think the great discipline here on the industry has been fuel it's taken the industry years to be adjusted to $3.29 jet fuel per gallon.
The industry is healthier today because it has gotten itself adjusted and bankruptcy has been one of the techniques to get its cost down.
But what that all leads to in the next generation I don't know.
It is clearly a mature industry compared to where it's been the last 25 years.
And you have a lot of coverage of a variety of players you've got low-cost players you've got so-called full-service players and again you've got very very high fuel prices.
So -- but we're going to be disciplined we're going to manage our capacity we're going to be making whatever adjustments we need to make to hit our return on invested capital target.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom and thank you all again for joining us today.
We are available this afternoon if you have any additional questions if we weren't able to get to all of them today.
So again thanks for joining us and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to introduce first Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President of Communications and Strategic Outreach.
Hello there.
How's everybody doing? Tom if you would go ahead and give our folks some instructions to be able to queue up for questions we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Sheryl Jean with Dallas Morning News.
I just have a couple of questions about the FAA sequestration issues.
Up until today I believe Southwest has been saying flights have not been significantly affected.
Is that still true as of today? Yes.
The vast majority of our flights are operating on time.
What has happened to us since Sunday it does not live up to the dire predictions that the FAA made last week which would grind the entire system to a halt so we certainly haven't seen that.
Rather than put out a dire warning to all of our customers we already have a customer feature in place where we notify them of their flight specifically if it's going to be delayed.
We do see that our on-time performance is impacted since Sunday but so far we've been able to manage it.
I think the problem Sheryl that I've tried to describe today is that -- and just to be very clear we were not advised of the FAA as to what their plans were going to be until last week.
So there's 5 days before the Sunday imposition of the furloughs.
At that point in time we were not advised as to exactly what they were going to do.
So we couldn't tell you what city what time of day or what flights.
And of course being from Dallas you know the story of the American Airlines airplanes that ended up at Love Field.
I can assure you when those flights launched from their origin they had no idea they would be redirected to Dallas Love Field.
So it is that kind of uncertainty that we face one could say almost on every flight.
The number of flights that are being impacted today are relatively few but there are definitely some impacts that we're seeing.
And they have predicted that they're going to make it worse and I think that's our primary concern is that that not be allowed to happen.
So do you feel -- and this has come up with some other airline officials do you feel that FAA still today is not communicating enough information or quick enough information on the staffing issues? Well they are hard-working people okay.
So they -- I think given the mandate they've been given I do think that they are trying hard and our ops folks tell me that they are getting better.
But I think the -- so it's not for a lack of effort but no we don't have enough information to plan at all.
And the other thing that you should know is that we cannot coordinate with our competitors.
It's against the law.
So there is no way for us to easily make adjustments to schedule flight activity because we can't talk each other number one; number two we also don't know what the airspace capacity is going to be.
We actually start the morning with very strong on-time performance again as an illustration.
And then throughout the day what we've experienced especially Tuesday and yesterday and what we seemed to be experiencing today is as the day evolves we get surprises during the day we're told to hold on the ground or we're told to have an alternative routing and that's a real challenge for an airline.
Again having said all that the vast majority of our flights are still operating on time just as we have them scheduled.
And we'll take our next question from Andrea Ahles with the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
During the call you mentioned an example of the fact that Southwest is now carrying more passengers to Atlanta from Dallas than they did when you first bought AirTran when AirTran was running nonstop service out of DFW airport.
I was wondering are there any other cities where you're seeing that occurring out of the Dallas market and is that factoring into your plan when you think about what sort of flights you're actually going to be running out of Love Field when the Wright Amendment restrictions lift in 2014? Well -- so Bob Jordan I'll ask you to answer the first part of the question.
Andrea if you don't mind I'll answer your second question first.
That is absolutely how we plan.
So in other words we look -- we have flights we see where people are flying.
Most people fly on us nonstop.
But if we have a significant number of customers that are flying to a destination on a one-stop basis that becomes an obvious opportunity for us to put in a nonstop flight.
I remember vividly back in the early 1990s we were the number -- as an example we were the #1 carrier between Houston and Las Vegas and we had no nonstop flights in that market.
So we do today and so absolutely we'll be looking at Love Field from that kind of an opportunity perspective.
We know exactly where people are flying on us today beyond the Wright Amendment restrictions and all of those will be very good ideas for nonstop flights.
And Bob do you want to talk about Atlanta please sir? Yes absolutely.
And just to add and just to talk about the strength of both the Southwest network and the Southwest brand in terms of what we're seeing with AirTran.
Maybe just a couple of things to add to that Dallas example.
In just 30 days here the first 30 days of having full up co-chair actually less than 30 days southwest.com has actually become the largest distribution point for AirTran flights.
So we're actually distributing more AirTran through southwest.com than through airtran.com which is just an incredible thing.
It just points to the strength of the brand and the website as well.
And then on the network side I think the best example there is the strength that we've seen in the growth of local traffic in Atlanta and that's even before we really optimize the Atlanta network which you'll see here in November.
So we picked up somewhere in the -- in terms of the comparison of connecting traffic to local traffic in Atlanta we picked up about 8 points of local traffic.
So about 8 fewer points of connection and 8 more points of local without a dramatic change in the network there.
So as Gary pointed out earlier I'm just really optimistic about continuing to win local traffic by just simply offering flights at the time that our folks in Atlanta want them which is really the whole point behind the November schedule change.
Right right.
And another way to say that in other words is the schedule that we have today and the one that we have had with AirTran is not very good.
It's not as competitive as it needs to be to attract local traffic.
So the fact that we've been able to drive that increase in local traffic I agree with Bob's points 100%.
So that's very encouraging.
We'll take our next question from Andy Compart with Aviation Week.
I just wanted to follow up on the Atlanta stuff.
You started touching on it there.
Can you tell me first of all what the percentage of connecting traffic is in Atlanta for AirTran and I guess combined right now? And then what do you expect that will be after you make this change in November? Bob I vaguely recall what it is.
Do you know off the top of your head? Well I think I can give you yes a couple of points of reference.
AirTran at the time that we acquired AirTran it was roughly 60% connect in Atlanta which is pretty typical for a hub.
Sometimes even more.
A city with a lot of connections for us so for example Chicago is going to be much closer to 40%.
And I think we said today in Atlanta that that 60% has moved down to about 52% 53% so we've already seen a big increase in locals.
But you'll continue to see that shift towards local traffic.
And I would expect that it will ultimately end up closer again to a Baltimore Chicago kind which would be 40% or just south of 40%.
Yes that's -- I would agree with all of that.
And again along those lines in places where you have a lot of operations you do make some allowances for connections even though it's not typically a hub-and-spoke.
Is what Atlanta will be like? Will it be like a Midway that will make some allowances in the schedule to foster some connections? Yes absolutely.
In other words the way to think about it is we're simply making it Southwest.
And no 2 cities are exactly alike but they all trend towards having a dominant component of local or nonstop traffic they have some relatively small component of true traffic and then there's generally a 20% to 30% mix of connecting traffic.
That's the way Chicago looks that's the way Houston looks.
All -- said a different way Bob to my recollection we don't have a city that looks like a hub-and-spoke.
Yes we do not.
I think the best way to think of it maybe particularly when you're AirTran and you have one dominant hub is you start with the need to connect and you build the schedule around that.
And that's why you end up with a lot of flights after 9 p.m.
before 7 a.m.
And a Southwest style city you start with the local traffic and the demands of the customers and when they want the flights and to the greatest extent the connections then kind of fall out of that.
So it's just the reverse.
One example I was looking at are -- just as an easy one our Atlanta to Kansas City operation.
In today's schedule AirTran serves that at 10 a.m.
3 p.m.
and 9 p.m.
So not very good timings particularly for our business customers.
And in November schedule those flights will be timed at 8 a.m.
noon and 6 p.m.
So there's a much much better flight time in terms of folks in Atlanta that want an early-morning flight and then a reasonable time to connect back out.
So you -- and you'll see those kinds of improvements all across the board in our markets in Atlanta.
That's great.
That's a great example.
We'll take our last question from Ghim-Lay Yeo with FLIGHT GLOBAL.
Just a little quick question about the No Show fee that you mentioned in your earnings release today.
Do you have more details on that? And how is that expected to help you with the revenue? There is really not much -- it's really simple and that's helpful.
There's really not a lot of details.
It's not a fee.
It is -- you forfeit your fare if you don't cancel it.
And there are -- we're not -- we don't have change fees.
I see that several of our competitors have moved to a $200 change fee and at Southwest it's 0.
So all we need our customers to do is to cancel their reservation which puts us in the position of finding a replacement customer for that seat.
And that is -- that's what every other airline does and it's really time for us to do that as well.
So that change will go into effect with bookings after May 10 I believe for flights in September.
But it's not a fee.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Rutherford for any closing or additional remarks.
Thank you all.
Folks if you have any follow-up questions you can call the Communications Department at (214)792-4847.
Thank you all for being with us today.
This does conclude today's call.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you Tom.
Great job.
Thank you sir.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I'll be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to today's call to discuss our second quarter results.
Joining me on the call today is Gary Kelly our Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; and Mike Van De Ven Executive Vice President and COO.
Today's call will begin with opening comments from Gary followed by Tammy providing review of our second quarter results and current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy's remarks.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intents expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And now I'll turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Marcy thank you very much.
And good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are very pleased to report a strong second quarter earnings performance and we had record earnings record earnings per share record revenues.
The first half results are records as well.
As with a year ago we produced very strong operating and net margins and strong returns on capital.
Our cash flow from operations was also very strong and we were able to repurchase $251 million worth of stock as well as quadrupling the quarterly dividend.
The domestic economy was worse than what we had assumed in our second quarter plan.
And really that's for the fourth year in a row.
Fuel prices were nicely below plan and that provided a nice offset at least.
So to start with I want to thank all of our employees for a very strong quarterly performance.
I also want to thank them for the tremendous progress that we're making on our strategic plan and especially our 5 strategic initiatives.
So just to mention those very quickly as we have outlined in the press release we're on track with our AirTran integration.
We've got the networks connected.
We've got city conversions well underway and aircraft conversions well underway.
And the retirement of the Boeing 717s began this next month also as planned.
As far as our All-New Rapid Rewards program that we've rolled out in 2011 we're continuing to see very strong results and a very strong performance from that new program.
On the 737-800 front we have 43 of those units on hand in the fleet as of the end of the quarter on track to hit 54 by the end of the year.
They are performing as expected producing higher than system load factors which is a real tribute to our scheduling.
And for the quarter they were a meaningful profit contributor also ahead of our plan.
Next we have our fleet modernization initiatives which for the second quarter was principally the Evolve retrofit on the -700s and the -300s.
And that was also a very significant contributor and also ahead of plan.
So all told the fleet modernization initiatives along with the -800s contributed $89 million of incremental revenue in the quarter.
And then finally our initiative to implement a new reservation system beginning with international reservations technology continues.
It is right on track and planned for implementation in 2014.
We have a major technical milestone on that project this fall and I suspect we'll provide a more in-depth update on the project at that point.
The only 2013 project that is off track is our O&amp;D revenue management system.
Technology was delivered on time as planned but the results from that new product are not what we really want and need.
So we're redirecting that effort and still expect to drive a significant benefit but not until we have a revised approach with that in 2014.
So having said all that again the economy has been worse than what was assumed in our plan.
That has impacted our performance and it may continue to and that simply reinforces our very careful outlook with regards to capacity and fleet expansion.
We lowered our expectations regarding 2014's available seat miles for example.
We have significant opportunities to grow the network after next year with the repeal of the Wright Amendment and the introduction of international capabilities.
And of course those opportunities are in Dallas and in Houston and really to all points in North America.
So our financial priorities continue and they are to achieve and sustain a minimum of 15% pretax return on invested capital reduce our balance sheet leverage and maintain investment-grade credit ratings maintain a total liquidity on average at least of $3.5 billion including our line of credit and of course continue to enhance shareholder value.
So with that very quick overview I'd like to turn it over to Tammy Romo.
Thank you Gary and thank you everyone for joining us today.
In spite of the weak revenue environment our second quarter net income excluding special items of $274 million was a record performance.
Our earnings per share of $0.38 was in line with consensus expectations and that's up 6% from last year's record results.
To achieve these results with all the strategic initiatives we currently have underway took much hard work and I would like to join Gary in recognizing our employees for their outstanding efforts during the quarter.
Our revenues for the quarter were an all-time high and benefited significantly from our strategic and other initiatives.
We realized $95 million in net synergies during second quarter from the AirTran acquisition with approximately 2/3 of that coming from net revenue synergies.
With the connecting capabilities now in place we have significantly strengthened our ability to optimize the Southwest and AirTran networks.
Second quarter earnings included $40 million from incremental code-share revenues and we were obviously pleased with these results.
Thus far in July we are also very encouraged by the bookings on new itineraries created from the ability to connect and sell across both networks.
Business Select revenues were approximately $20 million and we recognized approximately $17 million in incremental passenger revenues from our Rapid Rewards program.
We're on track with our expected $300 million EBIT improvement this year from our fleet modernization efforts with close to half of that already realized in the first half of this year.
Wright Amendment revenues were also strong producing $75 million in the second quarter.
So overall very pleased with the second quarter benefit from our initiatives that largely contributed to our record revenue performance.
On a unit basis our revenue trends declined in the 2% range compared to second quarter last year on a 3% increase in ASMs.
The increase in capacity was primarily a function of our increased gauge on our aircraft in conjunction with our fleet modernization efforts.
While the 4% year-over-year increase in our seats per trip put pressure on PRASM the significant unit cost benefit is driving our expected EBIT improvement.
In response to weak industry yield environment we launched aggressive sales to stimulate demand and that led to record second quarter traffic and strong load factors with the yields down just a little over 2% versus second quarter last year.
The weakness in yields are really across all fare categories but our business travel trends measured by close-in traffic were clearly impacted.
However unit revenue trends did improve nicely throughout the quarter.
April was down year-over-year 4% to 5%.
May was down 2% and June was close to down 1%.
For the month of June trends in the back half were stronger than the first half and trends have strengthened further here in July with the July 4 holiday being particularly strong year-over-year.
Based on current bookings we expect July's unit revenues to grow 3% year-over-year and current bookings for August and September also were good.
But please keep in mind year-over-year comparisons will be impacted by the timing of Labor Day in this year.
Shifting to freight revenues and other revenues.
Our freight revenues were also at record levels benefiting from increased fuel surcharges and expanding our cargo network with the introduction of Southwest cargo on AirTran flights during the second quarter.
Other revenues decreased 3.1% year-over-year primarily due to lower AirTran fees as we continue to transition the AirTran network over to Southwest.
EarlyBird revenues increased 30% year-over-year to $52 million and we recognized $83 million in other fees including $4 million from A1 through A15 premium boarding positions at the gate.
We currently expect our third quarter 2013 freight and other revenues combined to decrease from third quarter 2012.
Turning to fuel.
Our second quarter economic fuel price per gallon was $3.06 per gallon which was in line with expectation and this was 5% below second quarter's -- second quarter of last year's $3.22 per gallon and that was driven primarily by lower jet differentials as the decrease in Brent was offset by the increase in crack spreads.
Our ongoing fuel conservation and fleet modernization efforts improved our second quarter fuel burn by approximately 4% and lowered our second quarter fuel cost by approximately $50 million.
Our second quarter hedging premiums were $12 million as we expected.
And for third quarter we're approximately 80% hedged with 70% of our positions at varying Gulf Coast jet fuel equivalent prices and the majority of our protection beginning at $3.10 per gallon.
Our fuel hedging premium cost for third quarter is estimated to be approximately $22 million.
And based on market prices as of July 22 and our third quarter hedge position we currently expect our third quarter 2013 economic fuel price to be in the $3.05 to $3.10 per gallon range which is well below what we assumed for our third quarter fuel price in our 2013 plan.
For the full year based on fuel derivative contracts and current market prices our 2013 forecasted economic jet fuel price per gallon is $3.10 to $3.15 which again is well below our 2013 plan which was $3.25 to $3.30 range.
And our total 2013 premiums are still estimated to be approximately $60 million so no change there.
Our unit costs excluding fuel special items and profit-sharing increased 1.7% year-over-year and this modest increase is noteworthy considering the investments we are making through fleet modernization and our other strategic initiatives.
Clearly our efforts to control our costs in accordance with our 2013 plan are working.
The year-over-year increase that we saw was primarily driven by increases in salaries wages and benefits and airport costs and that was partially offset by lower maintenance expense.
Our Evolve retrofits contributed less than 0.5 point to our second quarter cost inflation.
And with our 700 retrofits now complete the second half of this year will experience minimal cost pressure related to our Evolve retrofits.
Based on current cost trends including our fleet modernization and other cost control efforts we expect our third quarter unit costs excluding fuel special items and profit-sharing to increase slightly from third quarter's 2012 $0.0772.
This tracks in line with our 2013 nonfuel CASM plan that assumes a 1% year-over-year increase on our nonfuel unit costs excluding special items and profit-sharing.
On the nonoperating cost side our net interest expense declined year-over-year primarily as a result of continuing to pay down debt a trend we expect to continue in third quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
We had strong cash flow generation during the quarter to end with $3.4 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Through the first half of 2013 we generated over $1 billion of free cash flow.
And in May we made several announcements that acted on what we communicated at our December Investor Day in regards to our focus on aggressively managing our invested capital and seeking ways to return value to our shareholders with our cash flow generation.
As Gary mentioned our Board of Directors quadrupled our quarterly dividend and increased our share repurchase authorization to $1.5 billion and the authorization included an accelerated June repurchase program which was completed in June.
Our repurchases under the ASR program totaled $250.5 million or approximately 18 million shares.
Through the first half of 2013 we returned $394 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and over $1 billion since May 2011.
We made approximately $50 million of debt payments during the second quarter and we have approximately $100 million in debt and capital lease scheduled payments for the remainder of the year.
Our $314 million of total debt payments planned this year includes $139 million of prepayments for AirTran's aircraft backed secured loans made this year.
Based on our scheduled debt payments our leverage including off balance sheet aircraft leases is expected to decline to the high 30% range by year end.
And there has been no change to our 2013 capital spending forecast which remains in the $1.4 billion range.
Before we open it up for questions I'll provide a quick recap of our fleet and capacity plans.
Thus far we've taken delivery of 9 of 18 planned -800 firm orders and 2 leased -700 aircraft.
And on the retirement side we are still expecting to transfer 16- 717s to Delta this year.
And combined with our Classic retirement schedule we continue to manage to a relatively flat fleet.
On the capacity side we continue to expect our 2013 available seat mile capacity to increase modestly in the 2% year-over-year range.
And for 2014 we currently plan to keep capacity in line with this year.
We're on track with our plan to implement Southwest international reservation system by the end of next year and we will then be able to complete the transition of our AirTran -700s while continuing to transition the 717s out of our fleet all this while continuing to retire our less fuel-efficient Classic fleet.
Overall 2014 we'll see a lot of movement within our fleet composition.
However we remain focused on keeping our fleet relatively flat in 2013.
In conclusion we're making great progress on our 2013 plan.
And while revenues in the first half were softer than planned recent revenue trends are encouraging.
Our strategic initiatives are largely on track with our 2013 plan with one exception: migration of the O&amp;D revenue management system has begun as planned.
However we're not yet fully comfortable with the results being produced versus our current method.
So we've chosen to continue our cautious rollout in a way that is even more gradual than we originally anticipated.
As a result we're currently expecting sizable incremental revenue benefit to fall in 2014 rather than 2013 which is what we originally planned.
That said our 2013 plan assume many of our other strategic initiatives would contribute more significantly in the back half of this year.
Further our efforts to control our unit costs are working and fuel prices remain below last year and below our plan.
Again our 2013 plan assumes fuel prices higher than we are currently running and a stronger economic environment than we've experienced thus far.
Together these trends have created a potential shortfall against our plan.
While our outlook on the second half of the year is encouraging our first half results were significantly impacted by the economic weakness which makes our ability to achieve our 15% pretax return on invested capital plan this year more challenging and less likely.
However we are not giving up nor losing focus on our plan.
And our expected results for the first half of the year while short of our plan are solid and provide great momentum.
Based on our current outlook while we may not hit our 15% by year end we are making excellent progress and we will not stop until we reach our goals.
And with that we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question which comes from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary in some of your remarks you kind of mentioned a pattern of sort of economic weakness weighing on results and surprising you.
I'm just curious when you think about the customer segment that you serve the nature of that segment do you get the sense -- or do you have the feeling that there are any kind of structural or secular kind of overhangs on that segment in particular within the context of the economy? Because after all we have seen positive GDP growth.
It's admittedly been sluggish but has been positive for the last few years.
And we have seen it seemingly weigh on Southwest a bit more than peers.
So I was just hopeful that you could kind of comment on that and maybe give some perspective.
Yes.
Thanks for the question.
I -- well first of all I guess just taking some of your thoughts in reverse I wouldn't agree that it's weighing on Southwest any different than anybody else.
There's a long string of years including most of the 4-year period that I was referring to in terms of the economic sluggishness where we outperformed the rest of the industry.
And I think Tammy mentioned in the way that you're thinking about how we compare right now just make sure that you take into account the increase in the seats per departure that's going on right now.
So that's a good 4% to 5% increase and creates at least an arithmetic drag on RASM comparatively.
So the only point of all of that is I don't see that we're out of step at all with the industry.
If anything over the last 5 years we've outperformed.
With respect to what secular changes might be taking place right now I don't know that I really see anything going on there.
At least what we can report to you is that our trends were very solid and stable on unit revenue growth perspective dating back to I would call it September as a starting point and all the way through most of February.
And then we were off of our sequential trends taking into account seasonality and the timing of Easter holidays et cetera beginning in March and we really haven't regained a trend relative to that previous period since.
Now we've seen some encouraging signs here in July.
But Tammy I don't know that I would say that July relative to June is a lot better than our normal June to July trend over history.
So it's -- even though we're seeing a nice comp to a year-ago July it's not like the June July trend is spectacular.
I think the weakness is twofold.
I think it's both in the government/business travel segment as well as consumers.
So we had a record monthly load factor for the month of June at 85%.
But Bob Jordan and his team had us on sale quite a bit to drive that traffic.
So I guess the bottom line John is no I don't think there's anything that's all that's unique going on here.
I think relative to a longer-term comparison maybe 10 or 20 years there's no question that the traffic in short-haul markets is less today than it used to be.
So I think that's probably the only thought that comes to mind about a secular change.
And I'm not ready to predict that the short-haul markets won't show improvement in the next decade.
But clearly the growth within the airline business over the last decade has been in longer-haul trips which is why we are pivoting more at Southwest towards longer versus short trips.
And the medium-haul markets sort of around 1 000 miles interestingly enough are relatively flat over the past 10 to 15 years.
So absent that which I would attribute more to increased fares because of increased fuel costs I don't really see anything going on right now that would suggest some dramatic change.
We've got the federal sequestration and other debt ceiling fight looming and I think we've all got to be very mindful of that and assessing what happens to air travel demand.
So all of that uncertainty along with higher taxes this year I don't think it's any shock.
As you said I don't think it's -- actually we weren't shocked that the GDP was weaker.
Our point was simply that we built a -- an annual plan.
We have to make assumptions so we made an assumption about the economy.
We made an assumption about fuel prices.
And one of those is a good guy and one of them is a bad guy relative to our plan.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
I'm just curious.
I think it's fair to say that your average customer is a bit more price-sensitive than maybe the average customer of a legacy airline.
Do you think that degree of elasticity is potentially kind of a headwind on the margin when we find ourselves in a situation where the industry price umbrella continues to go higher? Is there kind of a volume drop-off that we need to think about as those prices go up that might impact you more than others? Just your thoughts there would be helpful.
I don't know John.
Again I don't know that I'd buy that at least in 2013.
Maybe that argument made more sense in 1975.
But fares aren't cheap for a lot of Americans.
And so -- even though we're a low-cost low-fare carrier and that could be where a lot of the short-haul traffic has gone.
So we're the largest airline in America by a wide margin so we have a very broad appeal across the United States.
And I just don't see the argument that our customers are more price-sensitive.
By that definition we -- I think you would see a lot more volatility in our traffic.
We can get the traffic as we can prove.
We grew our available seat miles 3% and we filled them up there in June.
So I think bottom line no.
Now in a more macro sense we -- you and we know that we're a low-fare brand and we work harder to be lower than everybody else.
And close to the majority of the time that's going to be the case when people shop for Southwest Airlines.
But those are still fares that -- they're just not as low as they used to be for all the reasons that we know.
And we'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Cowen and Company.
Research Division</strong> So just this one question.
Do you prefer higher yields or higher load factors? I think that one's easy.
I think because we're a -- we start with serving our customers and think of ourselves as a low-fare brand clearly we want to be the lowest fare going.
I think all of us would admit if you ask Mike Van De Ven our operator who's sitting here he would say it's certainly easier to manage an operation when the airplanes aren't quite as full.
But that -- I think that's probably overthinking it a bit and clearly we want to be the low-fare brand with the best customer service.
So we like full airplanes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so then you would prefer higher load factors would be your -- kind of your answer right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then can you speak to -- I think your comment that you're by far the largest airline in the U.S.
can you speak to regionally what you're seeing? Is there like -- ergo are you seeing better strength in your maybe core Dallas Texas West Coast markets than you're seeing in the Northeast or other markets? I mean is there something that maybe you see shares shifting or something like that that would account for some of your maybe disappointment on your first half? No no.
I'd -- and again my disappointment is in the economy.
The -- in terms of what -- I think we would be comfortable sharing for competitive reasons the markets that are in more of a transition from AirTran through some step process into Southwest.
Those are the ones that are in more development.
So if you think about the Atlanta Baltimore Milwaukee where there's a lot of change taking place those markets are not performing as strong as markets that aren't affected by that kind of transition.
That's very clear.
The other thing that I would mention is that and we've shared this before the government travel which is defined -- I'm defining as a customer flying on the government fare so it's something that we can readily identify that traffic is down dramatically.
And Bob I think you said as much as 50% at times.
So I think a rule of thumb Helane would be down 35%.
So there are markets where we do see some weakness along the East Coast where you can sense that there's a lot of the military or government travel beyond what we can actually track on the fare and that does seem to support that.
But I think we all know that sequestration is real.
I spend a lot of time in Washington and they are definitely managing through cuts.
And beyond that I would say that the regions look pretty consistent across the country.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The only other question I have is in -- is I think you guys have $1.5 billion share repurchase program in place right? I don't know how far you are on it.
But that's 15% of the market cap of your company.
And yet the market doesn't seem to care.
They don't seem to react to that maybe.
So maybe a dividend or a bigger dividend is more of the right answer.
I don't know.
What do you think about that? I've got a lot of thoughts on that.
First of all the stock is up nicely in a 1-year period so there has been a move.
Pinpointing it to the cause is probably multiple reasons for that.
But number one the stock has performed over the last 12 months.
We're managing our balance sheet.
We're managing our liquidity.
And it is a -- what you're saying is true.
It's a testament to the strength of the -- the financial strength of the company.
And through the toughest of times we've been able to repurchase how many shares over the past 5 years? 100 million? I mean there is a significant amount of shareholder value that's been created.
And Helane again when you say that you look at our valuation relative to our peers and the valuation is still very strong at Southwest Airlines.
So I wouldn't conclude that we're not being rewarded.
And it's just a matter of -- as to our shareholders being rewarded enough.
We do have a $1.5 billion share repurchase.
We've done about 2/3 of that so we've got about $500 million to go.
I think all that is in the release maybe it's $525 million or so.
Yes yes we're at $976 million or 100 million shares.
Right so we've got $0.5 billion plus to go.
We have as you know we have increased the dividend in 2 steps.
We've been paying a dividend at Southwest since the 1970s.
We've stepped it up about -- I think we've doubled it last year.
I know we've quadrupled it this year.
So the yield is very respectable.
It's over a point somewhere in the 1.2 1.3 range.
But -- so that's just the background to your question.
I think the answer specifically is we're going to continue to monitor both of those and with the primary focus being on hitting our return on capital.
We're being very aggressive in the way we're managing the invested capital of the company on the denominator side and have some very nice opportunities here to modernize the fleet and still access the preowned market which is just a lot more capital efficient these days.
Plus we'd love to take new deliveries from Boeing once the MAX is available.
So all those levers are being monitored and pulled where we can.
And like Tammy summarized I think we're making outstanding progress.
And I think our folks are doing a great job on all those fronts.
Helane I wanted to make sure you have all the numbers that you were wanting there.
Just to summarize real quickly under our $1.5 billion authorization we're at $976 million which is 100 million shares.
And over the last 5 years we're at 220 million shares.
Great okay.
And we'll take our next question from Mike Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Gary I want to go back to -- you made the comment on the O&amp;D system.
I guess the implementation didn't go as well and then it won't be ready until 2014.
What -- when in 2014? And can you just elaborate on that like what happened? Or was it just the rollout it meshed with your system or...
Yes I'd love to and again I think the -- and Bob Jordan is going to describe this but the way we think about it Mike is the technology was delivered but it's not a technology or a system thing.
We're trying to change from a segment-based revenue management system to an O&amp;D revenue management system and with the understanding that going to O&amp;D dramatically complicates the predictability of the revenue.
And so I'm going to let Bob talk about that for a few minutes and at least perhaps explain better what pieces we are confident that we can deploy as we continue to I would call it not experiment but just run in parallel the segment system compared to the O&amp;D system.
Right now in other words it's not a failure.
What we're proving is that our current system works actually very well and better than the new system although again there's some really good things that we want to get from the new system.
So Bob you want to answer Mike's question now? Mike the O&amp;D system is really a couple of things.
There's a new forecaster so that's the ability to provide better data on just demand and that piece is going really well.
We're seeing at least what we expected or maybe even a little better in terms of having better data to predict the demand and then therefore obviously managing that better and producing a better result.
So that's going very well.
The second piece is then using that data to now manage as Gary said the flight demand on an O&amp;D basis versus a segment basis so use the new system to manage the inventory buckets and all that.
That's a piece that's a lot trickier and there's a lot of science in it.
And we've got a number of dates that are being run by the new system.
And we just want to watch across the demand curve be a little cautious here and make sure that the new system is managing the inventory buckets and at the end of the day producing a better result than our current system.
A lot of what it's doing is validating that the current system is pretty darn good but I've got confidence that the new system will be even better.
We just want to be cautious here because there's a lot at stake.
And we've got a number of days in test.
And so I do expect a modest benefit here in 2013 and then the full benefit we've talked to you about before in 2014.
So I expect this fall we'll see those test dates prove up and then we'll move into a broader implementation here late this year and early in 2014.
But the larger driver of the value actually the better forecaster and that part is going very very well.
Mike I think one of the challenges that we were warned about is that our O&amp;D combinations are -- they're not infinite but they are so great and so complex compared to a hub and spoke carrier that -- and we're finding this.
We're finding that we're just not certain yet that that aspect of this technology will prove to be better than what we've got.
But like Bob was saying there are some wonderful pieces of the technology that will prove to be beneficial and will be deployed.
And whatever Tammy say is that we think the value is still what we have hung our hat on here which is I think $100 million.
That's right.
It just won't come now until we take a little bit different approach with the deployment of the system and the benefits simply get deferred to 2014.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Gary I would say I don't think there's ever been an O&amp;D system adopted by a carrier with as dense a route network as yours.
You are exactly right sir.
That's exactly right.
We're really first primarily point-to-point carrier trying -- making the move to an O&amp;D system.
So it's -- it is very complicated.
We may be able to get 80% of the benefit in other words without going full up on O&amp;D.
But anyway we're working through that and I'm -- what you haven't had happen is the Classic airline bust by moving to the new system.
So we haven't done that and obviously I'm very pleased about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just one second one.
You talked about a milestone technology that you would achieve in the fall but maybe it's something you can't elaborate on.
Or can you tell us what that's about? Or is that under wraps? All I meant there -- no no I was talking about the international system and that we have a major technical milestone related to that this fall.
And I think that would be an appropriate time for us to consider a more robust update for you all.
Right now we haven't told you a whole lot about the system or about when things will be sold and flown et cetera and it's just a little bit premature for that.
But we're making good progress right along our time line.
If we meet that milestone in the fall it will obviously be up to Tammy but that's the next major event with that project.
And we'll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Hey I want to ask you about some of the activity you've made on the -- some of the change you've made on the AirTran network on the fee side since December.
You announced some higher bag fees for AirTran there.
And then just last month you raised change fees at AirTran.
I'm wondering if you could tell me sort of what you've seen in terms of changes -- some behavioral changes since those fees came on.
And maybe at a higher level are you experimenting here? Or if not maybe just help me explain sort of the rationale for trying something like this.
Thank you Hunter.
I think no.
I'll just again kind of take your points in reverse.
No we're not experimenting.
I think what we are -- well simply what we're doing is managing 2 different brands on this -- during this transition period until we can ultimately fold AirTran into Southwest.
Now having said that I would agree with the direction of your thought which is there are things to be learned by having a different brand and having fees.
And clearly we're trying to make those -- provide those insights and make those assessments and judgments while we have AirTran operating separately.
The other noise though Hunter that's taking place during this year is we've now connected the networks.
And if you -- because of the Southwest brand and the no fees approach if you do -- would have -- if you understand it I'm sure you do the code-share.
So on the marketing carrier side of this we don't charge those fees.
So you do have AirTran itineraries booked through Southwest where there are no bag fees any longer.
And that is really distorting the -- you don't have a clean laboratory environment here to evaluate the revenue potential from a bag fee in fairness to your question.
Now trying to go back in time a bit and evaluate AirTran performance with fees versus Southwest performance without there's no question that the Southwest without approach has been superior.
And that was one of the main value drivers in acquiring AirTran in the first place is that they underperform on a revenue basis compared to Southwest and that's certainly proved to be true since we've owned them.
LLC</strong> Very helpful.
And a question for you as to sort of how you hedge fuel.
Do you -- I noticed you've loaded up on the hedges a little bit after the first quarter.
You kind of went through the year without much hedge protection.
Do you decide to buy more hedges when you see weakness in your demand sort of with the anticipation that weaker bookings are going to sort of forecast a weaker energy price environment or vice versa? Because it feels like the hedging strategy some is pretty dynamic.
Do you look at the 2 together? Do you look at one as the leading indicator of the other? No.
I think it is simply trying to -- again the industry has an array of risks and we try our best to identify what the enterprise risks are and then deploy mitigation techniques that are cost-effective.
We have a hedging program which philosophically is viewed as insurance.
So we try to spend no more than what we would spend on aviation insurance coverage in terms of premiums.
And that's a significant element of answering your question.
And then just like we do in insurance and what you would do at home if insurance is cheaper it's an opportunity to buy more.
If you want to think about it that way it's certainly the way we manage our aviation insurance.
When it gets more expensive then you might try to manage that cost by taking on a little bit more risk.
Said simply you might have a larger deductible.
So we'll think about hedging opportunities in that way.
I don't see that they are as directly linked to the revenue environment for one simple reason.
We're in the business of flying airplanes.
We have to have jet fuel to fly.
So it's not a reach to say that we know we're going to be buying jet fuel in 2014 and therefore we ought to be looking for opportunities to protect ourselves on price.
We are in this wonderful environment right now where the market is significantly backwardated [ph].
I'm not enough of an expert to -- I'm not an expert but I'm not enough of a student to know whether this is a record level of backwardation particularly with the Brent market but it does present interesting opportunities if you go out into the futures market.
The 2013 was real simple.
We went through a roller coaster already this year.
And I bet you our fuel price budget -- no not budget but forecast for the year has swung well over $1 billion from peak to trough.
So we had opportunities to load up some coverage at a very low cost and protect our AOP if you will and that's what you saw taking place I suspect from some point to some point.
But yes we're 80% hedged here in the third quarter and I believe Tammy we're 85% in the fourth? That's right.
And one other thing just a note to -- in response to your question Hunter.
We did as you pointed out we did lighten our fuel hedge for the third quarter to 80%.
And with that move we locked in a $0.01 gain which is of course reflected in the guidance that we gave you.
And we'll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Tammy have you given us your expectations for 2014 CapEx? We've given you our aircraft CapEx which is $1.2 billion.
Research Division</strong> And what do you typically assume over that level? Well what we have here in 2013 we haven't given you 2014's but just as a benchmark we're about $0.5 billion here in 2013.
We'll confirm that out for you later this year.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that.
And I just want to ask you it's not a big needle mover in terms of revenue but I believe you had announcement around live TV in the quarter.
And if I follow this logic correctly at one point you were charging it -- charging for it along with WiFi and then you moved to sort of a free model with a partner there so that probably cannibalizes some from your WiFi product offering.
I'm just wondering how do you think about sort of that value proposition to the customer? It seems like it could be an opportunity to charge for something.
And how do you think about sort of giving more value and what does Southwest get in return? Well the -- first of all I think we did about $5 million in revenues and that doesn't speak to the cost of providing the WiFi during the quarter.
So there's a $5 million revenue benefit and that was a significant increase from a year ago although again it's still a relatively small number.
And so it speaks to the point which is the take rates are still are pretty modest.
The live -- our TV offering is a promotion so we are not telling you that it is free into infinity.
And that is a partner arrangement that we have with DISH.
So it is obviously intended to drive trial and the television product is awesome.
So I think we're hopeful that people will try it and like it.
And we're not speaking today as to whether or not it will be free into infinity or even in to 2014 for that matter.
So hopefully that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with respect to Atlanta you're probably reluctant to give us this but can you talk about sort of unit revenue growth in Atlanta versus the rest of the system? And then just use your footprint there today how much supply are you taking down in the back half? And when does capacity cutting in Atlanta stop? Sure.
No I won't answer the question about Atlanta specifically as to how it's performing.
However I will certainly tell you that it is very much in development and transition.
So we have taken steps to begin the de-hubbing process and that is sometimes painful to work through because you cut off flow as you well know.
And then Bob has already published a schedule for November which takes that final step if you will in AirTran to move the flight activity to be throughout the day rather than concentrated into 2 major banks.
And so there is sort of a complete un-hubbing at that point.
We still have a lot of connecting passengers but it will be a shift to much more heavily weighted towards nonstop passengers.
So our capacity plans are pretty well-known I think Bob based on that.
And what we will do with Atlanta after that will be dependent upon the results obviously.
But -- so I can't -- at this point I'm not really ready to handicap whether the flight activity goes up down or stay the same.
But at least with this initial step that we're taking in November the total flight activity Bob is what...
Yes our schedule is this fall in the 165 to 170 flights a day which is not significantly different than what we've had in the market for a while now.
What's different again as Gary mentioned is the type of schedule.
So we're moving to much better local timings rather than a hub structure that has a lot of flights late in the day and very early in the morning.
So it should be much better for the local market.
But the overall flight schedule on that 165 to 170 is not a lot different than what we've had for quite a while in Atlanta now.
And makes it very consistent with where we are in Denver where we are in Phoenix.
That's quite a bit larger than where we are in Dallas and actually even Houston which is an original city also.
So that's a lot of flights and I think it will have a much improved schedule here beginning in November.
We'll take our next question from Savi Syth with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the -- connecting the network side it seems like there is some operational hiccups associated with it maybe on the bag losses and maybe some customer unhappiness if you book through Southwest versus if you book through AirTran.
Wondering if you could quantify what the impact from that has been? And have you been raising any AirTran fees as a result of operational issues? I wouldn't accept any of that.
I think that in terms of having an interim code-share or a network connection for the vast majority of our customers what we offer works just fine.
As per usual when we have irregular operations in other words flight delays or cancellations which happen infrequently then it is more challenging.
But on the whole it's worked out extremely well.
So no we're not losing any more bag -- I mean it is an undetectable effect of the issues that we have understanding that every day we have delays and cancellations and bag challenges.
So there are a few more with this interim product but nothing of anything that concerns us.
And yes there has been some media attention to that lately.
But again that is a very very few number of customers that are affected.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- just a follow-up on the Atlanta question.
What's the -- what should we see after this November implementation of the new schedule? Like where should we see the -- how should we see the improvement in the earnings? Well I think Atlanta has opportunities to improve.
It is not optimized today nor is BWI or Milwaukee or Orlando which are the 3 other major overlap points.
So all of those markets as we continue to optimize the schedule and transition flights out of the old AirTran approach into a new Southwest approach we'll probably have some risk that in the short term those markets will take a dip especially if it's a new city pair that -- in other words just because we're switching flights from AirTran to Southwest doesn't mean it's the same flight.
It could be a brand-new city pair and we could be discontinuing a city pair that AirTran had.
So it may take a dip and we see that as new developing market.
But our expectation is that they're going to develop very quickly and that's what we were referring to in the press release.
We'll take our next question from David Fintzen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The -- just tell me about the RASM and fully appreciate the sort of economic baselines are pretty volatile here.
So maybe coming at a -- if I think about the second half you've got the up-gauging sort of drag that you referred to which I would think of largely in the run rate.
You have the code-share benefits and some of the positives from the initiatives.
As we look at 3% July who knows where exactly domestic ATA or A4A will shake up? But is that relative performance kind of how we should think about the balance of the second half? Or is the bad guy -- does the bad guy of up-gauging sort of offset the good guys in OpEx and RASM? And just kind of help us think through the relatives to the industry because obviously the baseline's changing and in terms of the economy it will probably change if not again multiple times by end of the year.
We probably ought to let you just work with IR on that as time goes by here too because I think there are a couple of moving parts.
But the seats are the big things that's different and I don't think it's immaterial here.
I mean it's a point or 2 effect on RASM.
So it -- and I'm talking about within Southwest RASM so it is comparing for example second quarter '13 versus second quarter '12.
But it also distorts somewhat the comparison between our RASM change compared to the industry.
So there's a couple of thoughts there.
Now I think what Investor Relations could help you with is how does that ongoing year-over-year seat density to use that term how does that play out over the next couple of years? And we can certainly do that.
But you're going to continue to see an increasing mix of 800s.
You've pretty much got the full up effect of converting to the Evolve seats.
But remember now we're just now going to start retiring 717s and replace those with 20 more seats in terms of 737s.
So this is going to play out over a while.
Having said all of that what we're seeing so far in July is 3% unit revenue gains and we feel pretty good about that.
And the other thing to take into account and Tammy made this point is that yes there's a RASM effect.
But just because the arithmetic shows that doesn't mean it's a bad thing because there's also a CASM benefit and we're very confident that we're seeing a margin expansion because of the up-gauging.
And that's the important thing to note.
So I just need to make sure you got them both working in tandem in the way you model.
And the good news is we're seeing really really strong RASM especially considering that kind of a drag.
Research Division</strong> And -- but another way to come at it the initiatives that are obviously very -- should be margin accretive in the second half are they -- are the positives to revenue in terms of -- like things like code-share.
Obviously you've talked about the O&amp;D revenue management.
But are those really in the run rate by July? Or is there also sort of a positive phasing that's yet to come as we move through the year to balance the negative arithmetic of...
I think it's both.
So I think there are -- you'll see an increasing mix of more seats per departure which should continue to enhance the margin as time marches on between now and the end of 2015.
And again between now and then the major contributor is probably -- again I'm just thinking out loud with you but it's probably going to be the 717 retirement in favor of replacing it with 737.
So that's point number one.
Point number two is that you have yet to see the real benefits of the network optimization and also the maturing of the transitioned AirTran markets into Southwest.
So we've put a lot of chips on that initiative if you will and we're just now getting started with that in the second quarter.
So we're looking for and expecting an uplift from that from second to third and then more again from third to fourth.
We've been talking a little bit this afternoon about Atlanta as an example.
So Atlanta is a visual out there that happens in November.
And again I think what I was alerting you to that initially there might be a little hit there from Atlanta but it's all being done with the thought that you're going to have a much better revenue-producing route system in Atlanta once we made that change.
So those are just sort of examples of things that we'll continue to roll out.
Tammy do you have some other color you want to add there? Yes.
The only thing I would add on the run rate for RASM is as Gary mentioned the impact of the increase in seats per trip probably had about a 1- to 2-point RASM impact here in the second quarter.
It's probably closer to 2.
And in the second half I think that would soften a bit simply because we had some up-gauging in the second half of last year.
So it should ease a bit as we go in the second half but there will be still some impact.
And I can tell you understand all this very well.
But just to make sure we're not confusing anybody else as to the question from a business perspective of whether up-gauging the fleet is working and oh yes I mean we've got more than ample evidence that that is the fact.
The -- as I mentioned the 800s we're filling those extra seats.
And we're filling the 800s at a higher rate than our normal system average.
So we can tell you exactly what revenue was generated on the 800s.
And then the same is true for the 700 Evolve aircraft.
My recollection is Tammy we've added -- you know David that we've added 6 seats per aircraft and I believe that we filled 3.6 seats out of those 6.
And it's virtually -- the incremental cost of that is virtually nil.
Right.
So the business side of it the profit side of it is all there it's just how you measure some of these metrics on a per available seat mile basis.
It can get a little distorted which sounds like you understand perfectly.
Research Division</strong> Exactly exactly.
And just one real quick nit.
The 64 300s on Evolve that sounds like the same number.
I just can't remember.
I thought you had said the 300s are -- some 300s are going to Evolve.
Is that more 300s? Or is that just a repeat of the numbers? Well our plans are unchanged.
I think...
78.
Yes I know.
And I think just when we shared that with you I'm not sure.
But there -- Tammy is reminding me.
There are 78 300s that we consider to be eligible for the Evolve seating just based on the time that we intend to keep them before retirement.
And we've retrofitted 14 of those with 64 to go.
We'll take our last question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Tammy and Gary I realized synergies are somewhat in the eye of beholder I suppose but you did cite a $90 million figure for the second quarter as I recall.
And just for kicks if we take that out of your operating profit then things seem to have gotten quite a bit worse year-on-year I mean like down 20%.
And of course fuel guy -- fuel was the good guy year-on-year.
So you've got other airlines out there with no synergies that still achieved improvement so doesn't it imply that the core operation at Southwest is I don't know rather ill? I mean I'm sure you disagree with that characterization but the second quarter numbers paint a very discouraging picture.
Well I think that's a fair question and I -- but I think really your first statement is the most appropriate which is it's really hard to think about these pieces in a disconnected way.
I mean the whole organism has to -- it takes everything for it all to hold together here and I think that's a very fair assessment.
There's definitely an impact on the revenue performance at Southwest and everybody else from the economy.
So we're not out of line with everybody else.
Relative to thinking about these baselines Bob Jordan and I were talking about this earlier this morning.
Baseline -- nothing ever stays the same.
So whether you're comparing us to brand x or brand y everybody is continuing to do things plus or minus to themselves in addition to what's going on with the water level.
So I would agree that all that's hard to piece apart.
We know that there are some penalties in our current route system that are being incurred because we're still suboptimized.
It's more visible to us today in other words than it was last October for the second quarter where we are underperforming in certain markets.
And also we actually have a fairly large number of brand-new markets which I would put into the developing category and we're expecting them to develop rapidly.
So those Jamie are some of the offsets if you will to all the good guys that we've been listing.
But it all falls into the same description of we need to continue to take this combined route network and optimize it.
So the base business if you think about same-store sales where we get all the noise out our same-store performance looks quite good.
So I would actually take it in reverse.
If we didn't have all this noise gosh we would have really good results.
But in any event we're very confident that these new markets that we've established -- Bob what is an example of a new city pair? Just so Jamie knows what we're talking about here.
Well we've got a mix of markets that are new again as Gary mentioned before coming from AirTran and then a mix of markets that are new to Southwest Airlines.
A good example is adding -- routing this Houston-DCA route here.
Out of Flint Michigan we were flying to Atlanta.
Now we're flying...
When you're flying to Atlanta you're going to Baltimore.
We're now going to Baltimore.
So that Flint to Baltimore is brand new to all of us.
And that is a -- we have to treat it like a new market and we expect it to develop very rapidly.
We fully expect particularly with this deal in the connecting network we've got behind Baltimore that the Flint -- that Flint route will do very well because you've got so many additional places you can connect to but it does.
Again it's a new market because folks in Flint have to learn that they can -- that that's the schedule they have to...
Research Division</strong> Yes but -- I mean guys the airlines have new markets all the time and I just have to push back on the comment that you're in line because you're out of line.
I mean I guess you have company with JetBlue here Gary.
But everybody else even with your synergy figures everyone else got better in the second quarter and you didn't.
Well I don't see how that's in line.
But I mean again it's I guess it's subject to interpretation.
Well I've answered your question.
So it's very -- it's a fair one.
We have a lot of things going on that are good and we have some things that are offsets and we also have the economic drag.
But that's the answer.
And in fact we have a lot more new markets under development right now than I think any of us would like.
But we want to get this transition done obviously and get to a point with the route network that is productive.
So if they don't perform we'll simply continue to make those adjustments and eliminate the flights that don't perform in lieu of better market opportunities.
And what that also ties directly into is that we need to be very mindful of our capacity plans for 2014 and we do have a more cautious outlook for 2014 based on current results.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom and thank you all again for joining us today.
And if you have any additional questions of course we will be available to take those calls this afternoon.
And ladies and gentlemen we'll will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President of Communications Strategic Outreach.
Good afternoon everyone.
If you'll just take a moment to view the question for the team here and queue up.
The operator will give you instructions to do so we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will now begin with our first question from Terry Maxon with the Dallas Morning News.
I got a couple of questions about the LaGuardia incident.
I know you can't say what happened.
First of all is there -- have you learned anything in the 3 days since that has caused you to do any inspections or have any type of reaction with the rest of your fleet? And secondly their plane looked certainly reparable.
So the question simply can that -- how soon will it take to get that airplane back into service? Terry great questions.
I just can't talk about any of that at this point.
So we're obviously very pleased and very thankful that there were no serious injuries.
I was very proud of the response that our folks had in safely evacuating the aircraft.
The first responders in New York did a fantastic job as did the Southwest employees in New York.
So I can speak about that.
But anything about the situation or the incident I just can't talk about.
NTSB obviously is as usual leading this investigation.
We're in full support of that.
We should have a lot of information and data to get all the facts that make good judgments about whatever we need to do if anything to make changes going forward.
The second part of that question any question about whether or not that hull can be put back into service? I would put that in the same category.
I think it's a bit premature for me to make that assessment.
But obviously by the NTSB's report that they're going to investigate they'll do a full investigation.
There's damage to the airplane and we're going to need to be thoughtful about that.
Mike is there anything you want to add? Yes.
We just have access to the airplane over the last day or so.
So we'll have a group of people from Boeing come.
They'll look at airplane give us some alternatives and then we'll decide where to go from there.
And we'll take our next question from David Koenig with the Associated Press.
In the line items fuel was down you saved money there labor was up almost as much.
Maintenance was another line that was down.
And I'm wondering how you were able to cut down out of maintenance.
Is that from outsourcing? And also are labor costs part of maintenance? Or is this just kind of hardware that's in that line item? That's what's referred to as maintenance materials and repairs.
So the Southwest employees are in the salaries wages and benefits line.
The repairs would include outsourced labor if you will.
So if we -- as we have done traditionally we outsource our engine maintenance so any labor cost that's embedded in that would be in that line item.
Maintenance inherently will fluctuate.
One activity that was completing during the second quarter is our Evolve seating retrofit.
Some of those costs are capitalized.
Some of them run through the expense line.
But I would expect that spending to ease as we go forward.
Last year was pretty high in terms of our maintenance spending because we were ramping up that activity.
But in particular Tammy you want to speak to some of the other maintenance cost changes besides that in the second quarter? Sure I'll be happy to.
Yes.
And a part of it is of course we are retiring our Classic fleet as part of our fleet modernization efforts.
And as a result of that we are seeing fewer engine repair costs.
Those are accounted on as Gary said on a time and materials basis.
So a lot of that is just timing of when the engines fall in the quarter.
So we had a little bit lighter spending this year versus last year.
But I think those were the primary drivers.
And when one of your rivals mentioned yesterday one thing they trying to do to cut costs was to reduce the number of spare engines because of the ease in the access to repairs and the quicker turnaround and that kind of thing.
Are you doing anything like that? Are you able to go with a -- go a little lighter on spare engines because of the turnaround? This is Mike.
We -- all of our engines in our fleet are GE engines and we have agreements with the GE on spare levels that are acquired.
And those spare levels do take into account the engine turns the availability and access.
So we're very very comfortable with the spare levels that we have to support our fleet.
And I would -- I believe they're some of the most efficient in the industry.
We'll take our last question from Kelly Yamanouchi with the Atlanta Journal Constitution.
I'm interested in finding out how the transition of the route network in Atlanta is affecting your efforts to attract new customers and more business through the acquisition of the Atlanta market.
Are you still going full steam ahead? Or is there -- are there challenges in attracting more business for Atlanta? Kelly I think it's premature.
I think what has happened since we've acquired AirTran in '11 until now is we have seen a significant increase in nonstop traffic and we've been very pleased with that.
The change that you're referring to though is more material and the schedule doesn't start flying until November.
I see.
Okay.
Any changes in the view of the potential the long-term potential for the Atlanta market since the AirTran deal was announced whether due to macro factors or otherwise? Well absent macro factors no.
The -- actually I've been very pleased with the Atlanta response up to this point.
I think it's been terrific.
And we just got to work our way through the transition to a different style of flight schedule.
And obviously we've put forth a meaningful marketing effort locally and I would want that to continue.
So I think we have a great opportunity there.
I think we've been very warmly embraced by the community and just looking forward to the day where it's all fully integrated into Southwest Airlines.
So that will -- we're right on track with that.
It's going to take us until the end of next year but very much looking forward to that and I have very high hopes for the Atlanta market.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Rutherford for any closing or additional remarks.
Thank you so much.
As usual if you all have any follow-up questions you can reach our Communications Department (214) 792-4847 or via swamedia.com.
Thanks so much.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I'll be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's call to discuss our third quarter results.
Joining me on the call today is Gary Kelly our Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; Mike Van de Ven Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Today's call will begin with opening comments from Gary followed by Tammy providing a review of our third quarter results and current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy's remarks.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release and the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And now I'll turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thank you Marcy and thanks everyone for joining us this morning for our third quarter financial results.
I'll just give a quick overview and then turn it over to Tammy Romo to cover the financial results.
A very strong performance especially from a revenue perspective and it was reflecting a robust travel demand environment but also significant achievements by our people in optimizing the route networks and integrating AirTran.
Costs also moderated during the period and it was a reflection of lower fuel prices versus a year ago and also reduced fuel consumption per unit versus a year ago.
You'll note the increase in productivity with respect to our people versus a year ago and that is despite the increase in capacity.
I want to take this opportunity to thank all of our Southwest and AirTran employees for a great quarter.
They are working exceptionally hard.
The results show it and I really appreciate it.
We've made great progress during the quarter on our strategic initiatives in particular the AirTran integration the fleet modernization and the international reservation system technology project.
We broke ground on the Houston Hobby international terminal project which is slated for 2015 and we started the countdown to the 2014 repeal of the Wright Amendment here at Dallas Love Field.
There's a billboard outside Dallas Love Field that says "51 weeks to nonstop love." Despite these solid results we have a lot of work to do and also I would add a lot of upside.
We still have about 15% of our capacity deployed as the AirTran brand and it is not optimized.
Because of the fleet conversions underway we're under-scheduling our aircraft revenue service.
That's compared to where we will be post-integration.
And even though we're on track for our planned 2013 AirTran synergies we have a higher percentage of our system in development.
And all of these create earnings drags which should dissipate post-integration.
Considering all of that it was an exceptionally satisfying quarter.
Our fourth quarter outlook is encouraging as well in particular the holiday bookings.
And as you would expect we like everybody else saw an impact from the government shutdown but hopefully that drag will be short lived.
And then finally our fourth quarter outlook for fuel prices is stable at least for right now.
We're finalizing our plans for 2014.
They will most certainly have a bottom line that achieves our 15% return on invested capital mandate.
We have no capacity growth planned for next year.
In addition to running the business our goals are to bring up the international service at Southwest and finish the AirTran integration.
We'll be very focused on doing everything we can to make our 2014 plans a reality with the normal caveats of course for the economy and fuel prices.
So Tammy with that very quick overview let me turn the call over to you.
Thank you Gary.
Hi everyone and thanks for joining us today.
We reported great results this morning setting several records.
Our net income excluding special items was a record $241 million which was nearly 150% increase year-over-year and EPS was a record $0.34 which was in line with consensus and represents 162% year-over-year increase.
Our operating income was also a third quarter record at $439 million which produced an operating margin of 9.7%.
Our pretax ROIC for the 12 months ended September 30 was 11%.
So we're making great progress there.
Our revenues for the quarter were also a third quarter record increasing significantly year-over-year to $4.5 billion.
On a unit basis total operating revenues increased in the 4% to 5% range compared to third quarter last year on a 1% increase in ASM.
Our passenger unit revenues increased a little over 5% compared to third quarter last year with strong unit revenue improvement each month of the quarter.
July and August were up about 4% to 5% and September was up 7% to 8% year-over-year which is much improved from our first-half performance.
July benefited from solid holiday traffic and healthy demand drove strong yields throughout the quarter.
Our business traffic also showed signs of strength.
Our outstanding unit revenue performance was particularly notable considering the 4% increase in seats per trip and nearly 2% increase in stage length which resulted in a drag on PRASM of about 2 points.
But please keep in mind the impact to unit revenue is more than offset by the significant unit cost benefit that is driving the EBIT improvement from our fleet modernization efforts.
The large number of developing markets that Gary mentioned was also a drag on our PRASM results year-over-year close to probably about 1 point.
And again roughly 15% of our network was deployed in new markets or in conversion markets as part of the AirTran integration and our ongoing network optimization efforts.
These markets are progressing nicely and developing faster than traditional new Southwest markets.
Our people are doing a fabulous job delivering our strategic and revenue initiatives which contributed significantly to our record third quarter revenue performance.
We realized approximately $120 million in net synergies during third quarter from the AirTran acquisition with approximately 2/3 of that coming from net revenue synergy.
In fact about $45 million came from incremental codeshare revenue.
Our Business Select revenues were approximately $27 million and we recognized approximately $13 million in incremental revenues from our Rapid Rewards program.
Our No Show policy was implemented in September and contributed $5 million in incremental revenues in third quarter and we are on track with our expected $300 million EBIT improvement this year from our fleet modernization efforts with close to half of that already realized in the first half of this year.
Our Wright Amendment revenues were also strong producing $85 million in third quarter.
Looking ahead we expect unit revenue trends to be choppy through the remainder of the quarter.
Thus far in October we were impacted by the government shutdown.
We're currently estimating about a $20 million impact from a reduction in government-related travel and our best guess at this point is that October PRASM will be up about 1 percentage point.
Holiday bookings for the remainder of the quarter are strong and we currently are expecting healthy year-over-year unit growth for the November/December combined period.
Keep in mind the late Thanksgiving holiday will create difficult year-over-year comparisons in November but that would have a corresponding benefit of course to December.
Shifting to freight revenues and other revenues our freight revenues were a strong $41 million benefiting from an expanded cargo network with the introduction of Southwest cargo on AirTran flights during third quarter.
Other revenues decreased 7% year-over-year largely due to AirTran fees continuing to decline with the transition of the AirTran network over to Southwest.
EarlyBird revenues increased close to 20% year-over-year to approximately $50 million.
And we recognized $62 million in other fees including $4 million from the A1 to A15 premium boarding at the gate.
We currently expect fourth quarter 2013 freight and other revenues to decrease from fourth quarter 2012 primarily due to the continued decline in AirTran fees as we continue to replace 717 flights and convert 737s to the Southwest fleet.
Turning to fuel our third quarter 2013 economic fuel price per gallon was $3.06 which was in line with expectations and the 3.2% decline from last year was driven primarily by a favorable jet differential and just lower prices and $0.01 in hedging gains.
Fuel and oil expense also benefited from better fuel efficiency from our fleet modernization efforts.
Our third quarter fuel burn improved by between 3% to 4% reducing our third quarter fuel costs by approximately $45 million.
Our third quarter hedging premiums were $22 million which was what we had expected for the quarter.
For fourth quarter we currently have up to 48% of our estimated fuel consumption hedged but about only 12% of that protection is at Brent prices and that would kick in at $135.
And another 36% is at Gulf Coast jet prices at $3.10 market prices and that was as of October 21.
Based on this hedge position and current market prices we expect our fourth quarter fuel price per gallon to be in the $3.05 to $3.10 range and that reflects a $0.02 locked-in gain.
Of course over the last day or so jet fuel has dropped again and we are fully participating in the market declines with reduced prices as our floors are a modest 11% and are more than 20% below the current market.
Our fourth quarter fuel hedging premiums are estimated to be comparable to third quarter's $22 million.
Unit cost excluding fuels special items and profit sharing increased 1% year-over-year which was right in line with expectations.
The modest year-over-year increase was primarily driven by increases in salaries wages and benefits airports and revenue-related costs and those were partially offset by lower maintenance.
We expect another good performance in fourth quarter.
Based on current cost trends we expect our fourth quarter unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit-sharing to be relatively flat with fourth quarter 2012's $8.15.
This track is right in line with our 2013 nonfuel CASM plan we communicated to you all last December that assumed a modest 1% year-over-year increase in our nonfuel unit cost excluding special items and profit-sharing.
Our anticipated unit cost performance in the second half of this year clearly reflects the benefit of our fleet modernization and other cost control efforts and we're just very pleased with our performance.
On the non-operating cost side our net interest expense was comparable year-over-year a trend we expect to continue in the fourth quarter primarily as a result of continuing to pay down debt.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow now we had another quarter of strong cash flow generation ending with $3.3 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Through the first 9 months of 2013 we generated $1.2 billion of free cash flow and returned $572 million to shareholders through -- little over $500 million and that was $0.5 billion in share repurchases and $71 million in dividends.
Since May 2011 we have returned over $1.2 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
During third quarter we executed a $150 million accelerated share repurchase program.
That reduced our third quarter basic share count by approximately 11.5 million shares.
We have $375 million remaining under our $1.5 billion share repurchase authorization.
We've made approximately $267 million of debt and capital lease payments through the first 9 months of 2013 including approximately $50 million during the third quarter and we have approximately $46 million more scheduled for the fourth quarter of this year.
Based on scheduled debt payments our leverage including off-balance sheet aircraft leases is expected to decline to the high 30% range by year end and there has been no change to our 2013 capital spending forecast which remains in the $1.4 billion range.
Overall our invested capital balance is down $1.2 billion or 9% since last year which is meaningful and in line with our 2013 plans.
Just a quick recap of our fleet and capacity plans which are relatively unchanged.
Thus far we've taken delivery of 12 of the 18 planned -800 firm orders and 2 leased -700 aircraft.
On the retirement side we transitioned our first 717 to Delta in September and work is ongoing to transfer 15 more this year.
Combined with our Classic retirement schedule we continue to manage to a relatively flat fleet.
We transitioned 2 more AirTran -700s during the quarter and 1 more and bringing our total -700s converted to Southwest livery [ph] to '15.
We plan to transition 4 more AirTran -700s this year which will leave 33 next year once the Southwest international reservation system is in place.
Our 2013 ASM capacity will increase about 2% year-over-year.
And for 2014 our plans remain to keep capacity in line with this year.
Our published flight schedule out through June 6 reflects our continued focus on optimizing the combined network including 5 more AirTran markets converted to Southwest following Grand Rapids during the third quarter and 5 new overlap markets.
We also recently made the decision to no longer operate AirTran's Baltimore to Bermuda service.
And while we haven't ruled out a decision to return the future service to Bermuda on AirTran currently it doesn't meet our performance targets.
Next month's flight schedule begins the evolution of AirTran's Atlanta service into a Southwest point-to-point operation.
And overall as I mentioned previously we have a high-volume of developing markets as we complete the AirTran of -- integration of AirTran.
These markets while a temporary drag on unit revenues are expected to ramp up quickly to be a positive contributor.
In closing our strong third quarter results were very encouraging with our strategic revenue initiatives largely on track our cost control efforts are working as planned and we will continue to focus on maintaining our strong competitive position.
Our financial position remains strong as ever allowing us to deliver on our plan to aggressively manage our invested capital and return significant value to our shareholders.
Our 15% pretax ROIC goal remains a priority and we are on pace to significantly close the gap this year.
And with that I think we're ready to open it up for questions.
This will begin our analyst portion of today's Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of questions here.
When we think about maybe the opportunity at Love Field and this is to Gary.
I think you do about 120 departures and I think you'll have 16 gates there.
And I sort of think about Southwest doing 10 turns a gate or so although I think Gary we've joked about in the past I think there's that 1 gate in L.A where you do like 13 flights a day -- or 13 departures.
When we think about the potential size that that airport could become is it maybe 10 flights a gate per day or is there the opportunity to hardstand flights out there as well? Any color on that would be great.
Well with respect to your last question all the departures there will be via a jet bridge.
So the 16 Gates.
I think 16 Gates is plenty.
I think we'll have all we need and it's a little bit premature to speculate on what the potential is out of this market.
But we're excited about the opportunity.
I don't see any reason why you couldn't assume 10 at least right now.
The bigger aircraft like 737-800 is probably not a reasonable expectation that you could get 10 800 departures a day per gate.
On the other hand I don’t think we'll have all 800s at Dallas Love Field.
But your guesstimate for Dallas Love in the 120 range is about right and I also agree with you that it's a reasonable assumption that the flight activity will go up but it's a great airport it's right on track in terms of the construction.
12 gates are open 8 more will open next year and it'll be ready and we'll be ready.
So we're very excited about the opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Hey Gary just one other on that.
With schedule changes and typically I think you go out like 220 days or so like what schedule change should we look for when we should maybe see some changes to the Love schedule? What would be the potential timing on that? Well we typically publish schedules every 2 months and roughly your 220 is a decent guess.
That could be as little as 6 months maybe 7 months.
So that will give you some idea what to look for early next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then just my second question.
When I look at your performance this last quarter when I sort of think about Southwest and how you've priced in the past a lot of times it would look like that you were more likely to go out with a fuller airplane at the expense of yield.
And yet it seems like this last quarter there were periods where we would see loads down and healthy yields.
And I think it was just a function of a good strong pricing environment.
But how much of that may be some of the new tools that you've been implementing? I know you've talked about that on the last call the new O&amp;D revenue management system maybe some of your techniques on inventory and allocation among the different fare classes.
Is that starting to kick in? Are you getting any sort of pickup on that? Anything incremental? Mike I think that's really more evolutionary as opposed to a market change this year versus last year with respect to revenue management tools.
But it is the right conclusion to draw that every year we are adding to our tool chest there.
I think more than anything -- and again we had an 80.8% load factor for the quarter which as you know us historically that's really high.
It was off 1 point from a year ago.
This year we were purposefully using less sale activity a reflection probably of a couple of things.
One is just the conversion of AirTran markets into Southwest Airlines and also a reflection of what we believed was a healthier economy this year.
So philosophically we still want to be the low-fare carrier.
We like to be aggressive with fare sales and we'll continue to use that technique.
The other thing that is nice this year is that we have less markets that are "new" to Southwest and where we don't have to depend as much on price to generate trial on our flights or on an AirTran flight either way.
But it's yes just a better economic environment overall much stronger travel demand in the third quarter than what we were seeing in the second quarter and as compared to a year ago.
Finally what is a reality in 2013 is the networks are connected and they were not a year ago and the schedule in the third quarter was getting more and more optimized for those connected schedules.
So they were completely independent a year ago and not nearly as efficient.
And I'm sure we were using price to fill up airplanes as a consequence.
We'll take our next question from David Fintzen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A question just in thinking through the growth in seats per departure out into '14 I mean it's running sort of up for now.
Presumably that starts to come down but is it still up 2-ish percent for 2014? David we'll still see -- we'll start seeing that tapering off as you suggest.
And so I don't know if it would be up quite 2%.
But you're -- probably in the 1% to 2% range is a reasonable guess at this juncture.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the reason I ask is if we're looking at your -- just thinking obviously there's still a lot of piece moving around.
If we're thinking about sort of the absolute x fuel cost growth of kind of tapering down the 3.5% range year-over-year I mean is the right way to start thinking about '14 from a cost perspective I know it's early sort of continuing that level of absolute cost inflation and then mitigating it with some of that upgauging? Does that kind of get us ballpark how we should be starting to think about '14 in terms of CASM? Yes I think that is fair.
And then as Gary mentioned we are working through our 2014 plan now and we'll give you better guidance on that at our next conference call.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And then just a quick one.
Just on the 800s as you're bringing more 800s in presumably you're going to hit the sort of least dilutive markets first and then kind of work down the system.
Should we be thinking of sort of a lower marginal revenue generation on the 800 as you get more 800s into the system? Or is that kind of holding up as you get more and more of the new planes? So far it's been holding up and I think what we're looking at right now for 800 deliveries next year at least my expectation would be that it would hold up in 2014.
And we'll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> If I look at the percentage of revenue passengers versus enplaned passenger it looks like it's gradually declining.
And if you apply just sort of back-of-the-envelope an average fare to that mix shift it looks like the last year's third quarter for example I think you're sacrificing about $63 million of revenue and that's about 150 basis points that would be PRASM growth.
We talked on the last call about the incremental cost method versus deferred method of accounting but you're not really recognizing the revenue and the cash.
Given the incremental methods of recognizing this does it seem like it's still appropriate? And how are you guys -- I know you just made a change to the frequent flier program recently but how are you guys going to sort of ensure that the liability doesn't run away from you because of the generosity of the program or at the very least how you recognize it from an accounting perspective? I think there's 2 -- I mean the accounting is ultimately tied to the economics of the program.
So obviously we're monitoring all of that.
And we recently increased I guess the redemption co-efficient which would -- it's obviously a tool that we have to manage that liability.
So we will continue to monitor that.
But you're correct we do account for that on the incremental cost method.
LLC</strong> Okay.
All right that's fine.
And in terms of sort of Gary how you think about the brand and managing customer perception and customer confusion.
If you guys are to do things like say restrict certain discounted fares things like that maybe a little more than just around the edges is it fair to assume that maybe AirTran has to be retired whether it's the website being shutdown or the planes being completely painted? The brand of AirTran has to pretty much go away before we think about you guys maybe tinkering with maybe a little more substantive revenue initiatives? I don't think so.
In other words to me what we want to do is manage the amount of change that's underway at any given point in time more than being concerned about the brand confusion.
Right now as you well know there's a very different product at Southwest versus AirTran.
So we're already dealing with that.
And that challenge will continue to grow smaller every single month.
So AirTran will begin to shrink pretty rapidly now that 717s are moving out of the fleet.
So that's going to diminish over time.
I think more importantly is the focus that I mentioned.
So for 2014 we have a lot of work remaining to finish the international technology work make sure that that's up and running so that we can finish the AirTran integration into Southwest.
That's a tremendous amount of work with those 2 things.
The remaining AirTran integration includes a conversion of 33 737s into the Southwest livery and I guess around 62 more 717s into Delta's livery.
So as you can imagine there's a lot of work involved with that fleet conversion.
In addition to that we'll be replacing on an airplane-by-airplane basis all of the AirTran 717s that are going out of the fleet.
So we have to ingest all of those airplanes.
So that's the perspective in other words to your question.
With respect to our brand I think that we'll want to continue to protect the brand.
We'll want to continue to focus on the friendly aspect of the brand the low fare low-cost nature of our brand and look for opportunities where we can improve the customer experience and drive more revenues.
But specifically with respect to tinkering with our brand that's something that we'll be involved with here thinking about 2014.
And then we'll do the same thing again in 2015.
So nothing to report you specifically yet but stay tuned.
And we'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Cowen and Company.
Research Division</strong> So your average fare was up 11% in the quarter from $143 to $159.
Can you say what percent of that -- can you divide that by mix? Business versus leisure? Or maybe a different way to ask it is can we expect that level of fare at $159 $160 to continue going forward? We actually saw an improvement in our mix really across the board for the quarter.
So we saw nice healthy fares and which of course was fueled by the demand environment and just an overall an improvement in the mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for my follow-up question Gary if there are slots or other things available as a result of maybe a settlement with American and the Justice Department are you guys interested in expanding out in Washington for opportunities? Absolutely.
And I wouldn't restrict it just to Reagan.
We would be interested in more slots at LaGuardia as well.
So I'm reasonably confident that there will be slots that become available.
And then I'm assuming that there'll be an opportunity to bid.
So if there is that opportunity we'll certainly take advantage of the bidding.
Last time the slots came up for bidding we were outbid.
So there's no guarantee that even if they're divested that we'll get any.
But certainly that's something that we are interested in yes.
And we'll take our next question from John Godyn for Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary just on the last thing that you just mentioned there that you thought you're pretty comfortable or confident I don't remember what word you used that slots were going to become available is that sort of your view on whether we're going to see a settlement or not? I mean is that the implication there? Well yes.
I'm not trying to be presumptuous here.
That's just under the assumption that the merger goes through in one form or fashion it's my belief that slots will become available.
Obviously if it doesn't go through then I'm not assuming that any slots come on the market.
I can't imagine that the merger goes forward without requiring divestiture.
That's been our position from the very beginning.
And obviously the Justice Department seems to agree with that.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I just wanted to clarify.
The 0% capacity growth rate for 2014 you guys went out with that number a bit ago and it certainly seems as you're looking at trends in the fourth quarter that things are going quite well.
Is there anything that can happen in the next kind of 6 months that would cause you to revisit that number? Or should we think of that 0% as truly a firm number that won't be revisited until even farther? Well no.
I wouldn't lock it down that way.
But it'll be plus or minus 0 based on everything that we know today.
So you bring up the slot question in the same breath and who knows? We may get slots that require that we fly so we might need to increase capacity to take advantage of an opportunity like that.
Again this is just pure conjecture on my part to answer why would vary from that? Things could obviously change next year for the worse in the economy and we might want to schedule less flights.
So we'll definitely want to maintain that flexibility.
But back to Hunter's question we have a lot of work to do between now and the end of 2014.
I would rather not introduce a lot of growth or even modest growth into that environment.
I think we'll be very well prepared to contemplate growth opportunities after all the integration is complete and I think we'll have a number of very exciting opportunities to think about.
So really now and next year is not the time to be thinking about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And Tammy if I could just follow-up on what you said recently on business mix improving is there anything you can tell us about sort of the last few quarters or just something to put it in perspective that puts how much it's been improving today versus some point in the past? I'm just trying to get a better sense of the trajectory there.
Sure.
Just on our business mix.
It did improve from the second quarter.
I think we were at about -- I think we reported that we were about 30% in the second quarter of this year and that's up to about 35% here in this quarter.
So we have seen when I was referring to signs of strength.
That was kind of one of the reference points.
Corporate sales also increased year-over-year.
Actually rather dramatically and -- so just a lot of encouraging signs across-the-board.
We'll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on John's question.
When you're in a position to play offense again and start to grow what are the relative attributes that you consider when deciding where to point your aircraft? Is it only a relative cost decision? And how has your experience in Atlanta changed your thinking in that regard? Let me take a shot at answering your question and you can tell me whether I'm on target with your relative cost point.
We'll be looking for opportunities where it can play to our strengths and where we can stimulate traffic looking for nonstop opportunities where we think there's sufficient traffic that's perhaps underserved.
And as we think about the future I don't think that there's anything that's fundamentally different about how we would contemplate growing.
I think in this environment with higher fuel prices and having more of a challenge in stimulating traffic we'll just be a lot more measured in pursuing those opportunities.
Dallas Love Field is an obvious opportunity.
I'm sure we'll face vigorous competition from DFW.
So we're not willing to commit yet exactly what we want to do and when for competitive reasons.
But right now we're just focused on bringing up our international capabilities and finishing the AirTran integration and not focused on growing the airline.
Research Division</strong> And then broadly can you talk about the cost buckets that will help or hurt CASM next year? And can you provide any update on your pilot negotiation? Tammy you want to talk about the cost outlook? And then I'll try to chime in on the negotiations.
Yes.
Our most significant cost reduction initiative as you probably are aware is our fleet modernization efforts.
And so you -- where you'll see those savings would be in our maintenance materials and repairs and our fuel and oil expense.
And you're already starting to see some of the benefits in fuel efficiency.
So those are going to be the primary 2 buckets where you'll see a reduction in cost.
And of course we'll continue our efforts as always just to control cost overall.
And just a quick point on this year if you recall last year we went into the year with a goal to reduce our overhead by about $100 million and we're right on track with that goal.
So -- and again working through the 2014 plan but -- as always we're going to be very diligent in our cost control efforts.
Duane you specifically asked about pilot negotiations.
So I'll answer that and just comment on the rest.
But the -- I think the negotiations are going fine.
And in terms of what's being discussed at the bargaining table as you know that's going to be confidential.
But there's nothing really that I can report at this point other than we're continuing to have meaningful discussions.
Our pilots are very devoted to Southwest Airlines and certainly want to make sure that their company succeeds.
And I'm very grateful for all the hard work that our pilots do for us every single day.
But I would be remiss if I didn't also share that we're in negotiations with many other workgroups.
In fact most of our -- the vast majority of our union contract employees their contracts are amendable at this point.
So we have a number of negotiations underway and they are all proceeding and all -- I feel like we're having a very good dialogue.
But otherwise just really not at liberty to provide any other insight there.
We'll take our next question from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> We're certainly pleased to see the improvement in the ROIC and I wanted to ask to what extent do you think you're somewhat handicapped to achieve the 50% target without necessarily growing the ASMs more meaningfully beyond let's say -- in 2014 let's say.
Why don't I take a shot at that and I'd love for Tammy to be able to comment as well.
I don't think we are handicapped.
I don't think achieving our return mandate is a function of growing ASMs.
I think it is a direct function of us optimizing our route network.
And as a follow-on managing the revenue production.
The other material input of course is fuel prices.
And it is so nice to have stability in fuel prices.
It's somewhat humorous to us that for 2 quarters in a row we have the exact fuel price per gallon of $3.06 after all of our hedging for second and third quarter.
And as I mentioned in my comments the outlook for the fourth quarter is in that range.
So that is extremely helpful.
We want to maintain our low fare brand and not continually be forced to chase operating cost higher and higher and higher and higher.
That's what creates so much instability in our [indiscernible] customer set.
So -- well we think we have very good revenue momentum both I and Tammy have gone through the whole list of things with you that are not optimal yet.
And again just as a headline I would say we are in the midst of a major merger integration.
And despite all of the noise that comes along with that are producing record earnings here in the second and third quarter.
So oftentimes you see the opposite result.
In other words where people are really distracted and not performing.
So I feel really good about where we are and Tammy and I and all of our leaders know darn well that we've got a number of opportunities that we can pursue.
And that will be our focus.
And as I said our 2014 plan will have a result that achieves a 15% return on invested capital.
I'm not guaranteeing that we can achieve it but I am guaranteeing that we'll have a plan that provides that result.
So Tammy I think you want to answer? Really not much to add to that Gary.
Just again we're going to continue to be diligent on the cost side and of course as we've demonstrated this year we're very focused on managing our invested capital as well.
Research Division</strong> And then you certainly do have a very strong balance sheet which affords you a lot of flexibility.
And I wondered to what extent would you consider increasing your capital return to potentially juice up the ROIC? Well I won't speak to our future plans but I think you can just look at what we've done here in 2013 and I think that's just evidence that we're committed to manage that as aggressively as we can.
And we're very mindful of that.
We have last year in fact we were very explicit that we were going to aggressively manage our invested capital.
And Tammy pointed out that it's down I believe 9% year-over-year.
So no we'll want to continue to do that.
We've got very strong operating cash flow.
I don't know anything right now about 2014 that would suggest that we won't have strong cash flow next year.
There's always the things that are hard to predict but like I said we'll have a plan that will have a 15% return.
And that will result in a very strong operating cash flow plan for next year.
We'll take our next question from Jim Parker with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the questions about Atlanta and when you all originally acquired AirTran did you anticipate cutting back the number of flights to the extent that you have or have you come up with better opportunities elsewhere that has caused you to cut back further? And then what are your game plans for rebuilding service in Atlanta? Well I'll speak to all of those and Tammy you chime in.
When we struck the deal with AirTran crude oil was a $80 a barrel.
So we did not contemplate -- at that point we didn't predict that oil would be at $110 a barrel.
So I would say that.
That has had a significant impact on not just Atlanta our entire domestic route system.
So we've been trimming flights across the country.
In fact it's a rarity to find cities that are having increased flight activity.
The opportunity for many of our cities is to continue to add new destinations.
But the short-haul markets Jim in particular as you know have really been hit hard over the last decade and have not recovered since 2007 '08 and '09.
So that would be my answer to your questions.
No we didn't plan on $100-plus crude oil.
I believe we will have a substantial operation in Atlanta.
We'll keep tuning it until we're satisfied that it's right.
There is absolutely no mandate whether it's Dallas Love Field or whether it's Atlanta that the flight activity has to be at a certain level.
And the other thing I would mention about the number of flights it's very misleading considering that the gauge it's changing dramatically.
So you'll be seeing 717s replaced by 737s in the trips.
In other words the trip count won't equate to the seat count and I'll just ask you to stay tuned on that.
Atlanta is very important to us.
We've had a wonderful reception there.
Atlanta was a challenge for AirTran and we're seeing very meaningful improvements in the local market in particular.
So we have a big step coming up next month to convert to the point-to-point route system.
If radical is the right word it's a radical change for the operation.
And the bookings so far look very solid.
So I don't see a misstep there and am anxious to see if we can't build the business from here.
At the same time we are really hampered by the fact that it's not all one brand and the majority of the flights are still AirTran.
And I think we're all looking forward to the day where it's all Southwest.
And that will really put us in a position where we can best answer your question and that won't be until the end of next year.
So we've got a ways to go.
We're very committed to the market.
Regardless of the number of departures that we have we're going to have a very large presence in Atlanta.
Tammy anything you want to add? The only thing I'd add is exactly what you said we in April 2014 we'll have 160 flights which as you know Jim compared to many of our other focused cities I mean that's right in line with what we would traditionally do.
So again a very I think still a very strong presence there in April.
And I think -- Bob did you have anything that you wanted to add? Yes Gary really covered everything.
I just would tag in on the November schedule change.
It's a big deal.
We're moving from a hub-and-spoke structure there that AirTran had to a traditional -- a little more smooth throughout the day flight structure that Southwest would have.
It provides a lot better local timings.
We're just a couple of weeks away from that and we were already gaining local share as compared to AirTran.
And bookings well thoroughly the bookings performance for that November schedule look really promising.
We're seeing gains locally and we're seeing that we're holding on to the flow traffic and connect traffic as well.
So not only would that be a better schedule for our local Atlanta customers.
It'll be a better schedule I'm very hopeful in terms of financial performance.
And typically with a big schedule change like that it takes the market a while to adapt to the change in flight timings and we're not seeing any dip at all.
I just Jim have one quick color commentary to Tammy's point.
Atlanta is one of the biggest cities that we operate in.
Period.
And it's bigger than Dallas bigger than Houston 2 original cities.
Bigger than L.A.
bigger than Oakland the list goes on and on and on.
So it's a very large operation for Southwest Airlines.
We'll take our next question from Glenn Engel with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about international.
How that's proceeding and when you hope to start flying that? Yes.
International is proceeding right on pace.
We're probably nearing the point where we can publicly release some milestones.
I'm not ready to do that yet but 2014 is still the plan and it's going to happen.
There are -- after the Bermuda closing there are 7 international destinations that will be the candidates for conversion from AirTran in 2014 over to Southwest.
And they'll take place -- those conversions will take place throughout the year.
So to bring up international Glen we've got to finish the technology be ready to take [indiscernible].
Then we have to convert the AirTran International airplanes and there's 33 737s.
Mike Van De Ven and his team will add some Southwest 737s to that international fleet but all of those things will have to take place to get international up and running.
I don't believe there's anything that we need to do with route authorities but our regulatory folks are all over that.
I'm not aware of any issues on that front.
So it's again primarily just getting the airplanes converted and getting the technology up and running.
The technology milestones are in view.
And what we have reported consistently to you all and especially in the second quarter earnings call is that that project is right on target right on schedule.
So my confidence in the deliverable for next year just goes up with every passing day because we keep hitting every milestone that we've given them.
The company's very focused on it which is again why I've answered several questions the way we have today which -- this is a big effort and it does require focus and we're really pleased with how the project is progressing.
So I certainly don't want any distractions for our team.
Research Division</strong> And does the flat capacity guidance next year include any significant -- any international? And what percent of the system do you think it could become way down the road? Well it's really small now.
Again it's got 7 destinations and 33 part-time airplanes.
They're not fully flying international routes.
They're probably I don't know Bob half of it is domestic.
So -- is it 1%? Maybe 1% of our capacity today is international.
And it's really premature.
I'm not ready to give you the big prediction yet.
I would simply say that the opportunity with 737s to North America including Alaska Hawaii is 200 to 300 airplanes.
That is not a prediction that we'll fulfill that but it's a very large opportunity.
And in many cases the fares are very high.
So we think we've got ample opportunities to grow there as we do out of Dallas Love Field and other domestic opportunities too.
So we have no lack of opportunities.
We just need to make sure that we're executing on our business plan and hitting our revenue and our cost targets.
And we have time for 1 more question.
We'll take our last question from Dan McKenzie with Buckingham research.
Tammy one quick clarification.
Did you mention that codeshare revenue from AirTran was about $45 million for the third quarter? That's correct.
Got it.
And that's net Dan.
So that's not - in other words there's a lot more codeshare revenue than that but we don't think that it -- well incremental is the right word sorry.
Got it.
And I think you just might have intercepted my next question Gary and that is I think the estimate earlier this year was about $1 million today and I guess I was just wanting to reconcile those 2 numbers? Yes sir.
Tammy I don't know if you have the gross number here.
The total is if I remember correctly it's over $200 million -- it's over $200 million.
I think $220 million if I remember correctly.
It's a giant number Dan but we know full well that it's not all incremental.
So we've made our best effort to try to infer from the data what is incremental.
Understood.
That's a big number.
And then I guess just secondly.
Does that codeshare benefit accelerate once the November schedules kick in in Atlanta? How should we think of that? Well I'll just give a topside answer and let Bob and Tammy think about your question here for a second.
The connection bookings for Atlanta in the November schedule change look very good.
And that may very well -- there may very well be some codeshare support in there.
The only thing I would mention to you though Dan is that as time goes by and AirTran continues to shrink its fleet which is happening now in an accelerated way every month between now and the end of next year the codeshare numbers are logically going to come down as that entity shrinks.
But yes Atlanta is probably in a better position in November for codeshare.
I would agree absolutely.
Just simply because the flight timings are better I'll think you're going to see a modest -- at least a modest improvement in the codeshare benefit.
The other thing to think about too is the -- as the AirTran fleet draws down the AirTran fleet and we've all mentioned this but it's suboptimized so that the AirTran network is suboptimized as compared to Southwest.
So as those aircraft enter the Southwest network and are optimized you'll in essence trade that codeshare revenue for even more effective revenue because it's part of an optimized network in total.
Right.
And a much better customer experience too.
Marcy back you.
Well thank you all for joining us today and as always if you have any follow up questions please feel free to give a call -- give me a call.
Have a good day.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion for today's call.
I'd like first to introduce Ms.
Ginger Hardage Senior Vice President of Culture and Communications.
All right.
Thank you so much Tom and thanks to everyone.
We know it's now time for the media to queue up their questions they might have for Gary Tammy Mike and Bob.
So if you -- Tom would give those instructions we're ready for that.
Ladies and gentlemen this is our media portion of today's Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question today from Terry Maxon with the Dallas Morning News.
This is a North Texas question.
I understand you're not going to give us specifics until you're ready to give us specifics but can you kind of tantalize us about what changes we'll see in the schedule out at Love Field both on -- beyond the Wright Amendment area and inside the Wright Amendment area? Well I think the -- beyond the Wright Amendment state area is gosh it feels like it's 1971 all over again.
So we've got lot of opportunities.
We have a lot more opportunities than we have airplanes.
So we'll be doing our best to prioritize what we do first and then just make sure we don't get the cart before the horse here.
So we're going to take this expansion opportunity like we would any other and be aggressive when we can and be cautious when that's what's called for.
But we've got opportunities Terry in every direction except for South.
So it's again an abundance of opportunities there in some really high-fare markets.
With respect to the Wright Amendment cities we're not really contemplating any radical changes there.
As I mentioned on the analyst call earlier the short-haul markets -- and you've written about this the short-haul markets have suffered over the last decade.
We have already adjusted our supply to that reset of demand.
And the other thing that will happen of course is that many of the cities especially in Texas are -- most of their flights are to Dallas.
While being able now to expand Dallas will be very beneficial for those cities.
So in other words if we fly to the East Coast now out of Dallas we'll have Texas customers that can now fly on Southwest via Dallas to that opportunity.
And that's very substantial.
So I think on balance for the most part there should be good new benefits for everybody and we're doing our best to make sure that we pay close attention to all of our cities that we serve and do the best that we can to take good care of them.
To follow-up on that.
Love Field I think you carried just under 8 million passengers in 2012.
Is 10 million a year once you get your schedule fully optimized out of Dallas Love Field post Wright Amendment a reasonable target? I don't know that I would put a boundary on it yet.
We haven't even gotten started with it.
It does have a natural cap and although we're -- because we're so efficient I don't know exactly what that is.
But I wouldn't object to that as a reasonable number but I'm not willing to predict it at this point.
We'll take our next question from David Koenig with the Associated Press.
Gary just following up on the slots question that came up during analyst portion.
Have you talked to anyone at American or Airways or even DOJ about that? Could you be part of some sort of prepackaged deal? Personally I've not had serious conversations with anybody about anything with respect to that merger.
If somebody wanted to talk to us about a deal well absolutely we would talk to them.
There's nothing wrong with that.
But generally David we don't comment on what kinds of things that we might be doing.
But just with this situation yes I'm going to give you a straightforward answer which is no I've not been involved in any serious way with anybody.
Okay.
And the reason I asked of course is -- so you were -- your comments earlier were just -- you were surmising based on your long experience in the industry.
It wasn't any particular inside information you had from any of the participants? I have no inside information.
And I - no I think -- at least I tried to make it clear that I was -- I think what I said is I was reasonably confident that there would be a divestiture required.
And yes that's based on our knowledge of the law and our knowledge of the slots that are hoarded at Reagan in particular and the fact that the Justice Department has sued to prevent the merger.
So that's -- those are the inputs that I was using to voice that opinion.
We'll take our next question from Kelly Yamanouchi with the Atlanta Journal Constitution.
You mentioned that bookings looked good in the shift to point-to-point for Atlanta and I was wondering how the shift for the November schedule has been affecting unit revenues and load factors for Atlanta? And also how it has been affecting the mix of Atlanta O&amp;D passenger share so far? We don't know.
Again all I can tell you is what -- is repeat what we said before which is that the bookings look very good at this point in time compared to a year ago for Atlanta.
And it is a very different operation.
Bob is looking at these bookings in total.
And what was interesting to us is that we did see a little bit more strength in the connecting bookings out of Atlanta.
So -- but it's way too early to give you any insight along the lines that you were asking us.
We'll probably need -- one day or one week doesn't make for a trend either.
So we'll need some time to evaluate how good a schedule we have.
I'm sure it won't be perfect and I'm sure there will be follow-on tunings that we'll want to do.
And Bob I'm pretty sure that we don't have every destination in place that we would like much less all the frequencies.
Right.
So we've got a lot of work to do in Atlanta.
And again Kelly the main thing to remember is this is still dominated by AirTran brand and service.
It's not close to being finished.
So I'd say we're probably a good 18 months away before we've got something that we're totally satisfied with.
But this is a big step and based on the step that we've taken we're very pleased with the results that we've seen so far.
But all that's very premature.
We have time for one more question from Jack Nicas with the Wall Street Journal.
One thing obviously I think jumps out is the 11.3% hike in the average paid fare.
Obviously you folks are coming from a low base fare and then you're allowing bags to fly free so still can be a deal there.
But do you think that that sort of increase significantly affected your strong revenue performance this quarter and do you think that this could lead to a trend of rising fares that would continue at Southwest as a result? Well just a little quick background and then make sure I answer your question.
The 11% is a little misleading.
If you look at the average passenger distance that they flew that's called the average length of haul that was up 4.3%.
So in other words one would expect to pay a higher fare to fly farther.
So you have that effect going on.
4.3% is quite a change in a year-over-year comparison there so that's part of the 11.3%.
You also look in the statistics you'll find that the yields went up what Tammy 6.2% 6.3% something.
That's probably a better indicator for how much fares went up year-over-year.
And those are -- we're a low-fare carrier.
Those increases are a function of cost pressures.
And the primary cost pressure that we are managing is fuel.
It is true that fuel moderated year-over-year but again we're dealing with catching up to fuel increases that have been taking place over the last decade.
And finally we're getting caught up.
If fuel prices are flat next year I would hope that we wouldn't have to have fare increases but that's just an opinion.
I can't give you any insight legally as to what we're thinking about with fares going forward.
Other than the obvious which is we want to be a low-fare carrier.
That's who we are so we're going to work very hard to keep our costs low so that we can pass those savings along to our customers.
Okay.
And one quick follow-up.
Obviously you folks have bucked the trend of charging for baggage.
Will you be able to stick with that and continue to allow 2 bags to fly free and simultaneously keep those fares low? Or is there an opportunity there to maybe along with everyone else charge for at least a bag or 2 and then therefore drop your fares maybe a little bit? I believe we will.
I would temper that with the following.
Right now it's our belief that we get more customers and more revenue by not charging for bags.
In fact there was a study that was released to the media this week ranking Southwest as one of the most transparent friendliest brands to work with with the airline industry being ranked as a whole at the bottom.
So we think that that kind of a brand image brings us a lot of business that we would not get if we started charging for bags like everybody else.
So there's a real value to being different than the herd and especially when you're different in a way that most everybody thinks is really good.
However if -- over time if customers prefer the unbundling approach sort of an ala carte approach and they understand it and they favor that well we'd be crazy not to provide our customers with what they want.
But as I mentioned earlier our focus right now to finish out this year and for 2014 is going to be implement international service at Southwest Airlines which is a very big effort and finish the AirTran integration.
A change in the fee structure would be I think a significant distraction.
So there are no plans to make any significant changes in 2014.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ms Hardage for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you all for being on the call today.
As you know we stand by if you think of further questions as you're compiling your stories.
That number to call is (214) 792-4847.
Thanks everyone for being on the call.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I'll be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Welcome to today's call to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
On the call today is Gary Kelly our Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; Mike Van De Ven Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
We will begin with opening remarks from Gary followed by Tammy providing a review of our results and our current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy's remarks.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
I'll turn the call now over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thanks Marcy and thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
We are very happy to report our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results a lot of records for this period.
First of all I want to start out and thank all of our people.
They're working very very hard to get us to this point and they are justly rewarded.
We had the strongest profit-sharing contribution that we've had in many years $228 million which was up 88% from a year ago so just a -- just very pleased for all of our people all of our shareholders with these numbers.
There were a number of accomplishments in 2013 and they're delineated in the press release.
But I thought there's a couple that were worthy of at least highlighting for you all at the outset here this morning.
First of all it was our 41st consecutive year of profitability and of course that's a record that is unmatched in the airline industry and remarkable considering how difficult the industry is and how difficult this last decade has been.
This year we've achieved a 13.1% return on invested capital.
That's pretax and a little bit short of our 15% goal.
While I'm very happy with that performance we're not satisfied until we match and then exceed this 15% return goal.
It's very important to do that of course.
I would also note that that is ahead of our weighted average cost of capital.
We were able to return significant amounts to shareholders during the year.
We had share repurchases of $540 million and that is as it relates to non-GAAP net income of $805 million so a very substantial percentage of our earnings were returned to shareholders and also $71 million in dividends.
On top of all that we were able to reduce our long-term debt and capital lease obligations by over $300 million just very strong free cash flow for the year.
And on the operations side for the first time ever in 2013 Southwest launched service beyond the 48 states with San Juan Puerto Rico and very importantly got the AirTran and Southwest route networks connected.
We completed the Evolve retrofit of our -700s.
We converted 6 of the AirTran 737s into Southwest Airlines and began the transition of 717s to Delta Airlines.
Finally towards the end of the year we were successful in acquiring through a bidding process 12 slots at New York's LaGuardia Airport.
Through that process we also secured permanently 10 slots that we were previously leasing.
And of course we have a bid in for additional slots and gates at Washington's Reagan Airport.
And then finally a real customer service enhancement.
We turned on the TSA's PreCheck expedited screening program towards the end of the year.
Turning to 2014.
This is a historic year for Southwest Airlines.
It is tremendously exciting.
We're within days of launching international sales for Southwest service later on this year 38 weeks to be exact to go until the Wright Amendment repeal is in effect.
And of course this is the biggest year of the physical integration of AirTran into Southwest where we'll complete all the conversion of 737s into Southwest and complete the integration of the remaining AirTran flight crews and dispatchers into Southwest Airlines.
So this time next year the AirTran brand will be retired and it will be all Southwest.
I'm especially happy with these results considering that there's such a drag associated with integrating another airline.
And to have record results knowing that there's a lot of work and inefficiencies underlying that again is I think a huge accomplishment.
We have a number of aircraft that are out of service going through conversion which is not normal.
We have multiple systems still in operation which has a lot of inefficiencies associated with that like multiple reservation systems.
So once we get clear of all these we'll have a lot of tailwinds I think and certainly looking forward to that.
Our outlook right now for the economy is very stable.
Hopefully the uncertainties that we had a year ago hopefully they won't return and that would be obviously a real good thing.
And then fuel prices have been remarkably stable for now 3 quarters in a row and at least our outlook as it stands today is for yet another quarter of stability there.
So the environment to run our business is pretty darn good.
We've got a lot of work to do at Southwest in 2014 but it will unveil a significant number of opportunities for us post-2014.
So with that very quick overview and again another thanks to all of our people for all their great results and very hard work turn it over to Tammy Romo.
Thank you Gary and thank you everyone for joining us today.
2013 was a year of great accomplishment capped off with record earnings.
And I would also like to congratulate all of our employees on these spectacular results.
Our full year 2013 GAAP net income was a record $754 million or $1.05 per diluted share and x special items our 2013 net income was a record $805 million or $1.12 per diluted share which is a substantial increase year-over-year.
Our pretax return on invested capital excluding special items for 2013 was 13.1% which covered our weighted average cost of capital and is a -- and is just superb progress against the little over 7% ROIC that we produced in 2012.
We ended the year strong with record fourth quarter performance.
Our fourth quarter 2013 net income excluding special items was $236 million or $0.33 per diluted share which exceeded First Call consensus of $0.29.
Our operating income excluding special items was also a fourth quarter record at $418 million which produced an operating margin of 9.4% just is an outstanding performance.
Our fourth quarter operating revenues increased 6% year-over-year to $4.4 billion on a 2% increase in capacity.
Our operating and unit revenues were both record fourth quarter performances.
And our passenger revenues unit revenues grew 4.2% which was a little better than we expected and that was led by an exceptional December PRASM performance up in the 15% to 16% range.
While November was negatively impacted by about 5 to 6 points from the Thanksgiving shift December received the benefit finishing the year strong.
We recovered nicely from the impact of the government shutdown in early October and we ended the quarter with a combined November-December PRASM increase year-over-year in the 5% range and we are seeing similar year-over-year growth thus far in January.
Based on our -- based on January's strong revenue trends and current bookings for the remainder of the quarter we expect year-over-year PRASM growth again in first quarter.
As you think about PRASM trends for the remainder of the quarter just keep in mind please that the timing of Easter which falls later this year and also note that our year-over-year capacity comparisons become a little more difficult as the quarter progresses with March ASMs up slightly.
We are -- as Gary mentioned our developmental markets we're pleased with the development of our new markets.
And while they did create about 0.5 point drag year-over-year on our fourth quarter PRASM results which is what we expected they performed much much better in fourth quarter than in previous quarters.
So they are developing very nicely.
And approximately 16% of our capacity our ASM capacity was in some form of development.
Turning to our strategic and other initiatives which contributed significantly to our fourth quarter and full year results.
We realized approximately $400 million in net synergies for full year 2013 which is right on target with our goals.
Business Select revenues for the quarter were $27 million also a record performance bringing our 2013 Business Select revenues to approximately $100 million.
For the full year 2013 we recognized $100 million in incremental passenger revenues from our Rapid Rewards program which was in excess of our expectations.
Our Wright Amendment revenues were also terrific contributing $75 million in fourth quarter and approximately $300 million for full year 2013.
Our No Show policy which we implemented in September contributed $23 million in incremental revenue in the fourth quarter.
And finally our fleet monetization efforts contributed $300 million as we expected in 2013.
Turning to our fourth quarter freight and other revenues.
We saw a decline as we expected largely due to the decrease in ancillary revenue from a reduction in AirTran capacity.
And as our AirTran customers continue to book through southwest.com we currently expect first quarter freight and other revenues to decline from first quarter of last year.
Our EarlyBird revenues in fourth quarter were $46 million and $195 million for the year.
Taking a quick look at fuel.
Our fourth quarter 2013 economic fuel price per gallon was $3.05 per gallon.
The 8% decline from last year was driven by lower fuel prices and a $0.03 hedging gain for the quarter.
Our fourth quarter fuel burn improved about 2.5% 2.6% reducing our fourth quarter fuel cost by approximately $25 million.
Our hedging premiums which were included below the line in other expenses were $22 million versus $3 million in the prior year.
Based on market prices as of January 17 and our current hedge position our first quarter 2014 economic fuel price is forecasted to be in the $3.05 to $3.10 per gallon range.
Our net premium cost for first quarter is currently expected to be close to $20 million.
I'm very pleased -- just moving now to nonfuel cost.
I'm very pleased with the improvement in our fourth quarter nonfuel cost performance.
Overall operating expenses declined year-over-year.
And excluding fuel special items and profit sharing our unit cost declined 0.4% which was slightly better than we were expecting.
We benefited of course from stable fuel prices our fleet modernization and rigorous cost-control efforts across the company including the cuts we made in overhead spending for the year.
Based on current trends we expect first quarter unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to increase year-over-year in the 4% range.
And I'll just note that this year-over-year increase include over 1 point probably 1 to 2 points cost impact from the January winter storm.
For full year 2014 we are expecting our unit costs excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to increase in the 2% to 3% range.
As we complete the AirTran integration as Gary mentioned we'll have further opportunities to improve operational efficiencies and G&amp;A costs which will continue to be a focus for us.
On the nonoperating cost side our net interest expense was down slightly year-over-year and we expect our first quarter 2014 net interest expense to be comparable to fourth quarter.
Our 2013 effective tax rate was 37.6% and we're currently projecting our 2014 to be in that 38% range.
We ended 2013 with $3.2 billion in cash and short-term investments and our 2013 cash flow from operations was $2.5 billion.
And our CapEx was $1.4 billion as we guided and that resulted in very strong free cash flow for the year of $1 billion.
During 2013 we returned $611 million to our shareholders through repurchasing $540 million of stock and distributing $71 million in dividends.
Since August 2011 we have returned over $1.2 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
We have $335 million remaining under our $1.5 billion share repurchase authorization which we intend to complete in 2014.
We made $313 million of debt and capital lease payments in 2013 and our leverage including off balance sheet aircraft leases was 38% at year end.
Based on the current 2014 outlook and a manageable cap spending we expect another year of healthy free cash flow.
Our 2014 CapEx is currently estimated to be in the $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion range.
And the other item I wanted to mention regarding our cash flows is scheduled debt maturities and capital lease obligations which are expected to be in the $550 million range in 2014 with a $350 million bullet on -- due in October.
Overall I remain very pleased with our strong financial position and balanced capital structure that supports an investment-grade rating and our focus on enhancing shareholder value.
I'll close with a quick recap of our fleet and capacity plans.
We took delivery of 18 -800s and 2 pre-owned -700s during 2013.
We retired 12 Classic aircraft and transitioned 13 717s to Delta.
All in we ended the year with 680 aircraft in our active fleet which excludes additional 717s removed from active service in preparation for a transition to Delta.
For 2014 we are contracted to take delivery of 33 -800s from Boeing and 12 pre-owned 700s.
And we are managing a significant amount of fleet activity in 2014 with the 717 transitions Classic retirements and AirTran -700 conversions to Southwest.
However we intend to keep our capacity for the year relatively flat on a year-over-year basis.
To conclude I'm very pleased with our stellar 2013 financial performance and the enormous progress we've made on our strategic initiatives.
I'm very thankful to our employees who worked extremely hard to deliver our 41st consecutive year of profitability and a year full of great accomplishments.
2014 will be another huge year for Southwest with the upcoming launch of international service and the repeal of the Wright Amendment.
And looking into first quarter January unit revenue trends and first quarter bookings thus far are strong and market fuel prices remain below year-ago levels.
We improved our cost performance in 2013 and we will continue our diligent efforts to control inflation in the year ahead.
Our financial position remains very strong and we are generating healthy free cash flows allowing us to deliver on our commitment to return value to our shareholders.
Our 15% pretax ROIC goal hasn't changed.
We came close in 2013.
And based on our current outlook we are well positioned to hit it here in 2014.
And with that overview Tom we are ready to take questions And this will begin our question-and-answer session for analysts.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Gary why do you think PRASM has been so choppy and not just for you but for the industry? I mean the swing we saw from November December was I think one of the biggest sequential changes in year-over-year growth rates that -- in more than 10 years and it's happened a few times over the last couple years at the industry level.
So I'd love to get your perspective given your experience in the industry and your size.
What are we seeing here? Are you guys and are others still experimenting with peak-trough scheduling? Is there still a lot more room to go on that? Is it the consumer that's kind of getting squeezed out on trough periods and are concentrating their vacations around holidays? What you think is going on here? Hunter I think the primary thing going on in the fourth quarter this year are just macro issues.
So coming into the fourth quarter our demand was strong.
It was consistent unlike the first half of the year where we saw some chop.
I really -- that's where I thought you were going to go with that to maybe second quarter.
I think the issue in the fourth quarter was primarily the government in that where we were constantly seeing July August Bob I want to say even getting into September we were constantly beating our forecast and the forecast were continuing to improve.
So it felt very consistent until we got into that uncertain period with the government shutdown and then that strength sort of evaporated.
It wasn't weak.
It just wasn't continuing to strengthen like we've seen really since the end of the second quarter.
That seemed to work its way out by November.
And then you had -- you'd have to -- I'd have to go back and check the calendar.
My recollection is this is the first time in a while where Sunday of Thanksgiving was December 1.
So you just had that odd calendar thing.
So that's why I think Tammy has been consistently trying to put the 60-day period together.
It does have a little government hangover there that's not all contained in October.
But December looked pretty clean free of the -- free of all that noise from the government shutdown benefited early on from the return traffic of Thanksgiving.
It sort of shortened the window in December of the dead time in between the 2 holidays.
So it's about -- well I think it is literally short as it can be.
So now last year we saw a very strong Christmas.
We saw a strong early January.
I think that that repeated itself here again this year.
So going back to the second quarter -- or rather the third quarter and then just blowing out those 2 items the government and the timing I think it looked pretty consistent to us.
Was it better than we expected? Yes.
Can I put my finger on exactly what that was? No.
We did have very strong consumer travel during that time period.
I think that that is a fact as opposed to seeing something that surprised us on the strong side with business travel.
So business travel looked okay consumer travel looked real good.
LLC</strong> Okay yes.
And some of your competitors this year raised their change fees and some of the domestic change fees we're seeing are really high $200.
We love that.
LLC</strong> I know you do.
So I guess that leads to my question.
Are you seeing any measurable share gains from that? And I guess more broadly more specifically I should say what percentage of your passengers take advantage by changing their tickets now and how has that trended over the last couple years? Yes thank you.
Well yes in the middle of the firefight it's kind of hard to tell exactly what we might be gaining or losing at any given point in time to our competitors.
We're working really hard because we're so different to make sure that our message is clear with the value that we believe we offer our customers.
I do -- I said this this morning on an interview that yes we love it when our competitors raise their cost to their customers.
It just creates a better low-cost advantage for Southwest.
So we know that customers hate fees.
We know that the fees are getting higher and higher.
I think that's all very good for us.
And is that part of our success right now? It might be.
It probably will take us a while to survey that ask customers and look back and evaluate exactly what our shares look like.
But if anything it feels like we're gaining ground certainly not losing ground.
And Bob on the percentage of customers that actually make changes do you have that top of mind? Yes.
It's in the 10% kind of range.
And so -- maybe a little bit more than that and it's been historically very consistent.
The other thing that we see we -- like everybody we conduct brand monitoring all the time and we see that customers absolutely hate the change and bag fees and that's a consistent theme.
And so it's a consistent win for us and a loser for everybody else.
And we'll take our next question from Savi Syth with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the international market startup this year how much of your ASMs will be dedicated to international? I think it's about 1% I think.
So it's very small.
And the other point to reiterate right now is that for purposes of 2014 in the way you're thinking about us we're pretty much going to take the AirTran International route system and simply move it gradually into Southwest.
That's not literally true but at the same time we're not anticipating any bold moves here with new international markets and a lot of additional capacity in 2014.
I think this sets the stage once we get through 2014 and the final integration get the Wright Amendment repealed it sets the stage for us to think about doing more with international in 2015 and especially when the Houston Hobby international terminal comes online in late 2015.
But what you see right now is pretty much what you should expect for 2014 in terms of that international footprint.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And just along those lines would be the capacity x fuel CASM increase that you're looking at.
How much of that is being driven by just the transitioning of the AirTran aircraft over to Southwest system and maybe some of the pilot rate increases that go with it? Savi this is Tammy.
I think we've given you the -- when it's all said and done the impact of the -- moving the AirTran employees to the Southwest wage scale is probably about $150 million and of course that's included in the synergy numbers that we provided for you.
So if you're looking at our increase our 2% to 3% increase year-over-year that's going to drive maybe 1 point maybe 1 point to 2 points of that increase.
And we've got -- there's some other things driving that as well.
If you're looking at our just airport cost we're continuing to see some pressures in our airport cost.
So that's -- you should factor that in.
And then also if you're looking specifically at our first quarter guidance some of that's just timing of our advertising spend year-over-year.
So as Gary mentioned I think the good news here is that I think we do have some pretty meaningful opportunities to improve our cost performance as we get on the other side of the integration just as we optimize and we're operating one network.
But Savi it feels to me like it is -- if not -- if it's not most of it it's -- or all of it it's certainly going to be a lot of it and some of it's hard to tease out.
We're going to have from this point forward until we finish the integration 10 to 15 more aircraft out of service than we normally would as one vivid example.
So these are airplanes that have been pulled out of service to go through a physical conversion either 737s into Southwest or 717s into Delta and that is pretty inefficient.
I mentioned in my opening remarks just the ongoing inefficiency of managing 2 airlines.
So there's a hangover for that.
But the training cost associated with our flight crews is quite substantial.
So not only do you have airplanes that have a higher number out of service but you also have a lot of employees that are in effect not in revenue service.
So our cost trends last year were quite good.
I agree with Tammy's highlight on the airport cost.
We are seeing some inflation there that we're trying to combat.
But I think most of the cost pressures that we're seeing here in 2014 are attributable to the integration.
We'll take our next question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple here.
Gary just if you could go over the timing I -- on the Houston international terminal opening up.
I heard you say late 2015.
What's the date there and then the timing on the res systems? I know -- I think for international you were working on adopting the Amadeus platform but I think for domestic it's a separate platform or maybe Amadeus was doing the work for you.
Can you update us on the timing of those initiatives? Yes sir.
Mike the date for the Houston terminal has not changed so I'm going by my memory.
We may have to fine-tune this but I believe it is fourth quarter of 2015.
And be -- and I don't know if I can be more specific off the top of my head than that but we did break ground back in September.
The project is still relatively early on.
It's on track so far and I feel pretty confident that we'll be able to hit those timelines.
So hopefully early fourth quarter of 2015.
On the reservation system Amadeus you got that right.
That is our international solution.
We're days away from revealing on that.
So that is a multiyear multimillion dollar technology project.
It is exactly on schedule.
I could not be more proud of the work that our folks have done.
So that's about to be unveiled.
And then the follow-on which we -- Mike we don't have a schedule established.
We have a commitment to follow on the international with the complete replacement of the domestic reservation system.
So that -- you could describe that as we are in the planning stages right now.
There's a lot of work underway.
We have not selected a vendor yet.
And until we do we won't have a specific project plan.
But it's going to take us well beyond 2014 and maybe all the way through 2015.
So it's just a little premature to give you a timetable on that.
With respect to us making any decision on that that should be in the first half of this year easily.
So our focus as you can tell is to get international up and running first.
That will pave the way to then move directly into the complete replacement of that system.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just the second on the Wright.
The Wright revenue $300 million it would seem reasonable to assume that a lot of that is -- it's a less attractive itinerary for a business traveler given that a lot of those city pairs that are in that $300 million bucket our on a one-stop maybe on a 2-stop basis.
So as you get to that point where you can roll nonstop service in some of those markets what's the potential upside here and -- or maybe how you think about it? And Gary maybe your experience when you launched service to Kansas City and St.
Louis.
Although I realize that prior to that you didn't have the Wright to offer those markets on a one-stop basis so maybe the uptick was much more significant.
I mean but this -- how should we think about it? How are you thinking about it? What's the potential ramp-up here? It seems like a huge opportunity.
Well I guess all of us have to define huge.
Yes we are very excited about it.
And I agree with you Mike.
Everything is set.
I think it is a huge opportunity.
I'm not really ready to give you a number today on exactly what that would be but you can -- I can guarantee we are going to add new itineraries and new flights once the repeal is in effect on October 13.
And I agree with you.
I think that just by virtue of the fact that we're doing so well on -- in fairness to your question it's essentially customers flying us on a one-stop basis.
I doubt that there's very many 2-stop customers out there.
But yes there's a bunch of people flying us already and that is traditional Southwest expansion techniques.
We look for one-stop customers where we see significant demand in an O&amp;D market.
That is where we go put point-to-point nonstop service in.
So we've got the roadmap.
We know where the customers are.
I think we -- I think it's a terrific opportunity.
We'll take our next question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First just a housekeeping item for Tammy.
Does the 2% to 3% x fuel CASM guidance for the full year include any labor accruals? Or should we assume that if any labor announcements do occur later this year that they would potentially further pressure this metric? Also capacity by quarter if I missed that from earlier in the call.
Jamie yes the 2% to 3% is based on our current -- our contracts our current contracts with labor.
So no it does not include any accruals.
On our capacity yes I just mentioned during my remarks that we expect our capacity -- maintain capacity relatively flat in that guidance.
That's our intention pretty much throughout the year for -- we've got our schedule published out through June.
And our first quarter will be again roughly flat [indiscernible] maybe a little bit and our second quarter ASMs also down slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then for Gary as we think about the airline business models in the U.S.
the industry seems to be bifurcating into traditional legacies on one side and ultra-low-cost carriers on the other side.
And then you have the handful of airlines that are trying to sort of bridge the middle.
And I would certainly put JetBlue into that category and I think increasingly Southwest.
And at the same time obviously both operating extremes are far more profitable today than they've been in the past.
So it just isn't clear to me if this means you'll be competitively left alone or competitively seized upon from both sides potentially? And you and I haven't necessarily agreed in the past as to what sort of industry health presents the most opportunity for Southwest.
You said there'd be opportunity for growth earlier in your comments.
But I can't help but wonder whether this potential identity crisis trying to straddle the middle does this work against you as your model isn't quite as easy to define as it was in the '90s? Any thoughts on this? Sure.
The -- I don't see that there's an identity crisis at all.
I would certainly concede that the world is very different today than it was at the beginning of the last decade.
So the difference between just the cost structure that we have to the legacy carriers has narrowed.
I think it remains to be seen whether that will widen again.
What we can do is control what we do at Southwest Airlines of course and we are devoted to being the low-cost producer in the industry.
We're attacking very close to the ultra-low-cost carriers as they are called.
So we're not significantly higher than they are and certainly have a much wider cost advantage relative to the legacy carriers in Southwest than the ultra-low-cost carriers have as compared to Southwest.
So we're going to attack to low cost and we'll continue to make enhancements to the customer experience that we think make sense through that filter.
We're still very different as you know.
We're very different than the ultra-low-cost and we're very different than the legacy carriers.
And again customers vote and they vote for Southwest.
So I think it'll continue to be a very successful model particularly if we control our cost and live up to that low-cost producer mantle.
The fact that we have the best compensation in the industry and are still among the lowest-cost producers is pretty remarkable and we haven't hit our stride yet on our cost.
So the fleet modernization is paying huge dividends on the cost.
And we have this -- as everybody understands we've got a lot of inefficiencies baked in right now because of this integration that'll be behind us once we clear 2014.
So that's the way we see ourselves and that doesn't mean that we can't adjust in the future.
But there are no plans to deviate from who we are which is America's leading low-fare airline.
And we'll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask you about slots.
Does winning slots at LaGuardia make you less likely to win additional slots at DCA? And why is DCA a good thing for Southwest given your presence at BWI? And then lastly if you do win would it impact your growth guidance for this year? Okay.
So you just give us a course correction if we don't hit all your points here Duane.
But the -- I think the first answer is no.
There's no issue with the fact that we got what amounted to 6 trips a day at LaGuardia.
So I'm very hopeful that we'll get some additional slots here at Reagan.
The Reagan opportunity is pretty straightforward.
It is among the most constrained airports in terms of supply versus demand.
We have a lot of customers that love Southwest Airlines.
We serve more people in the United States than anybody else by far and they want to -- a lot of them want to go to Reagan.
So we're finding that it is a very nice complement to the service that we provide to BWI.
Reagan in terms of its daily operations for Southwest will never rival BWI.
There's enough distance between the 2 airports where we can make it work and there's a fair amount of connecting and flow traffic also that goes through BWI that I would not expect at Reagan.
So we do the same thing in the Boston area.
We do the same thing in the Bay Area.
We do the same thing in Southern California.
So in some places that works well and geography and distance and traffic and other things have a lot to do with that.
I don't think that would make sense for Dallas Houston or Chicago but it certainly has proved to make good sense for us in the Baltimore-Washington area.
I forgot your last question.
Research Division</strong> Yes just -- if you won a big block there would it impact your growth guidance this year? And then when do you expect an answer? I think and Mike is here with me our fleet plans are pretty set here for 2014.
I don't see us bringing in other than sort of sliding on the calendar near year end I don't see any change from what Tammy reported which is 33 firm from Boeing I don't see that changing; and then 12 on the used market I don't see that changing.
Now we have not decided on our fleet plan yet for 2015.
So I think that's still – as I think all of you all understand that that's something that we'll make up our minds with as we go through 2014.
The only variable here is whether we retire any airplanes faster.
And of course we've got a plan for the year.
And if the year goes well we wouldn't want to do that.
If we get the slots we'll have to take aircraft capacity from somewhere depending upon what we get and when we have to fly it.
So it's a small enough amount of capacity that I just don't think it's going to be difficult for us to do that.
But no we don't have any plans to change our fleet for 2014.
And we'll take our next question from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Gary a question on pricing.
Just given where load factors are and expected relatively flat capacity should we see pricing momentum improve with the economy or to what extent do you feel like leisure passengers are beginning to feel little bit of fare hike fatigue? Understanding that I can't really comment on pricing strategy going forward we want to be the low-fare airline.
That is dependent upon us continuing to be among the low-cost producers if not the low-cost producer.
So those are always factors.
It also obviously is impacted by cost and with fuel being foremost in our minds.
So I think all of those are factoring in.
It's very difficult to price one's way out of a recession as we all know.
It does feel like the economy is improving.
So hopefully that means the revenue environment is improving.
If demand improves then it puts all of us in a position where we can manage our revenues and costs better.
But beyond that I can't really tell you what our specific plans are.
Bob I think it's true if you look back in the mirror for the last 12 months our fare increases have been very modest very infrequent and very judicious.
So I think that's also helpful in thinking about what happens next.
But otherwise I can't tell you what our plans are.
Yes.
I would just add that there are always 2 components there's prices and then inventory management throughout the price structure.
And I think we worked hard as we've talked about to get better and better every year at the way we revenue manage and inventory manage and that continues in 2014 as we bring some new techniques online.
But yes we've been extremely modest in our price increases looking back into 2013 and that's the plan continuing as well.
And so just again to recap our -- we're not sitting here hoping that we can raise fares.
We're sitting here hoping that we can maintain our position as the low-fare leader in the country and bring more competition in a shrinking industry.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And Tammy if I could ask a separate question.
Just given where your leverage ratios are and strong free cash flow generation expected again this year do you see scope to be a bit more aggressive on buybacks and dividends? We're not going to comment specifically on that question other than to say we do have what -- we intend to complete our current repurchase program.
So we'll get that completed in 2014.
And beyond that just not ready to comment on that today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just ask a follow-on question? Is there an upper end of the leverage ratio that you're comfortable with? Historically we've -- we feel pretty comfortable around that 40% mark and if -- I think that's a good point for us to manage to.
It might go up and down but I think 40% is a pretty good target for us.
And I would just add on that -- and Tammy mentioned this in her remarks but maintaining our investment-grade credit rating is very important to us.
And while the rating agencies aren't so focused on leverage it's more coverage ratios obviously they all work together.
So I think we'll definitely want to manage our balance sheet in a conservative way so that we can -- not just keep the current rating but improve it and certainly maintain that investment-grade rating.
And we'll take our next question from David Fintzen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Gary and maybe a bit for Bob obviously there's been a quite a bit of reallocation of flying within the network particularly with some of the fleet initiatives particularly as we start to get towards that 15% pretax rate target.
How should we think about kind of where the network's at in terms of where aircraft are deployed? Is there a lot -- is there a fair amount more change to come or do you feel like you're kind of getting airplanes in the right places now? Well just to recap what we've said so far.
At least in recent times the percentage of our route system that is "under development" is a very high.
So I think we shared that it's 16% of our available seat miles.
That is going to be sustained throughout this year.
And then when we have the final retirement of AirTran and integration into Southwest it'll actually step up.
So you're going to see a lot of "optimization" taking place certainly this year.
And then next year we'll have a lot of opportunities that unfold and Bob will have a lot of choices to make about where we might want to add new routes.
But I think we're still in pretty heavy optimization mode wouldn't you say Bob? Yes I think I would say to 2014 obviously it's a big year.
We have the completion of the integration which means we're going to continue to move Atlanta from a still somewhat hub structure much less with the November schedule change to a more traditional Southwest structure.
I don't think that'll have a big impact on capacity in Atlanta but it'll have an impact -- continuing impact on the flight schedule there.
Of course you've got the additions of Love Field coming in 2015.
Obviously Houston.
So I think those are really the drivers of a change in the network.
In a typical year without integration and big capacity choices like Dallas the amount of the network under significant change would be really sub-5%.
So I think that's pretty typical and we'll see that after we see some of these.
But we're constantly optimizing at a flight level moving flight timings and market timings and then moving flights from markets that just don't make sense from an ROIC perspective to markets that do.
So that'll continue as Gary said.
Yes and if I can just add one more quick point.
One of the things that we -- and Bob and I totally agree on this that we want to do prospectively is not churn the entire network as much.
So in other words if there's 25% of our route system that needs work what we've been doing is re-racking 100% of it.
And therefore in a stable market I mean you pick it let's say Dallas-Houston Dallas-Austin whatever the flight times move around and customers don't like that and neither do our employees.
So we would like to the extent that we can to stabilize the route network going forward understanding that there's still a lot of optimization to be done on the minority of the route system.
That's easier said than done as you well know because it is in network and everything is all connected together.
But we do have a desire to begin to stabilize the network.
The only thing that argues against that is we are all forced -- this is a question earlier.
We're forced to deal with seasonality and peaks and valleys a lot more today than when fuel prices were $20 a barrel.
So it's just with the understanding that some of our cities may see a very significant change in their flight activity depending on where they are in the off season.
So that's relatively new for Southwest.
We weren't doing that kind of thing a decade ago but it is a fact of life today and a necessity.
So good question and it's something that I think we're continuing to try to perfect.
Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful.
Just maybe a quick one just in terms of the January RASM.
Obviously I mean Tammy you mentioned sort of a storm impact on the CASM side.
Was it prolonged enough of an impact that you lost revenue? Or is that -- or was there a RASM bump in there from the weather? Yes.
There was a RASM bump due to weather.
But if you're just looking at revenues we were able to recapture most of that revenue.
So it wasn't a material impact.
And we'll take our next question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary as we continue to see ROIC improve and as we at least by my model project out you hitting your target at some point in the future I was hoping that you could offer a framework for thinking about capacity growth as we think about 2015 and '16.
I'm not trying to lock you into any guidance but just trying to understand I mean should we be thinking sub-GDP capacity growth mid-single digits? In broad strokes what can you tell us? I think it's premature to provide that kind of guidance yet.
First of all I think we need to decide what we want to do and then I think that that will help fine-tune that logic.
I think it makes sense for us to walk before we run and we want to sustain returns on invested capital that are sufficient to support that growth.
So I think before we go off and take a whole lot of risk here we want to make sure that any new flights that we add we want to make sure that it still allows us to achieve our return criteria.
It may almost be better to think about it in terms of units or numbers of airplanes.
We'd love to grow the fleet next year.
But I think relative to the base in our fleet right now we have 680 airplanes that are in service if you will or available for schedule and we're not looking at a 10% increase in our fleet growth or anything like that.
So tying it to GDP is a little bit too mechanical.
We don't -- we live within the GDP and obviously have macro effects but I don't see that we're going to be growing double the GDP rate or triple the GDP rate or anything like that.
So again I think all this is a little premature.
One thing to point out with our capacity in 2015 is that we're going to have capacity growth next year simply because you'll have a much higher percentage of aircraft out of nonproductive status.
So even without adding any airplanes next year we'll be able to add some capacity.
And we'll have to factor that in to whatever choices that we want to make for next year.
Research Division</strong> Could you help us kind of quantify what that percentage could be even without fleet growth? Probably not yet.
I don't think we're ready to do that right.
It would be relatively modest.
But I don't think we're ready to commit even to that because we have some flexibility as to how many airplanes we want to retire.
So I think all of those would be premature at this stage.
Said a different way we just don't -- we don't have our plans set for 2015.
And until we do that I don't think I can give you any better guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And if I could ask a cost-related question.
Tammy just in terms of the labor negotiations out there I mean given that you're currently though of course trends have improved currently still below your return target.
It seems difficult to be able to sign a contract that doesn't put your return target at risk simply because you're not there yet.
Does that kind of suggest that perhaps it might still take some time before we see a contract? And sort of in that vein would we need to hit our return target before we see a lot of these contracts kind of actually get negotiated? Our goal on our cost as we've discussed we've got a 2% to 3% increase next year.
We're obviously not happy with that.
And with respect to our labor contracts really what we're trying to do across-the-board is just squeeze out ways and be just as efficient as we possibly can.
So with respect to our labor contracts I think a goal would be more cost neutral.
And so that ultimately as we get on the other side of the AirTran integration overall goal is to stabilize our cost performance.
With respect to labor we've got -- Mike is there anything you want to chime in on the labor side? Yes.
We're actively working with all of our labor groups that are in Section 6 and we want to contract with them.
So we're not trying to slow play that at all.
We have a lot of opportunities.
Our labor contracts are built on operating models that existed in Southwest Airlines 10 and 15 years ago.
So there are a lot of avenues in that labor contract where I think that we can find flexibility and ways that we can improve our operating performance and improve our cost and come to a contract with our labor groups that doesn't put unit cost pressure on the company.
Yes and I would just add on.
In other words the implication of your question is that whatever we do is going to increase the cost to the company and that's not the way we're thinking about it at all.
And it's not -- you might quibble with this a little bit but it's not necessarily tied to the 15% return requirement.
The issue with our cost structure is much more strategic because we want to continue to be the low-cost producer in the industry and have job security and prosperity for our employees over a long period of time.
And it is much more important for us to work hard together to retain that competitive advantage as opposed to making sure that that fits into a near-term 15% return requirement.
We want to be a low-cost producer.
We want to be America's low-fare airline and we want to take our low fares to North America.
And the only way we can do that is to make sure that we are in fact low cost.
What Mike was pointing out is there are -- we can do very good things for our employees and at the same time eliminate waste and eliminate inefficiencies that currently exist.
And it's just a wonderful place to be.
We have wonderful opportunities to win on both counts and keep Southwest Airlines jobs secure and a low-cost producer.
That's our...
And we'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question with respect to the 717s.
I noticed that Delta announced that some of them are going to be flying right back at Love Field just in a different livery.
And I'm just -- what's the thought there? Given their competitive capacity how does that impact your own operations there? I think it's irrelevant.
There are plenty of airplanes available in the world.
And when we struck the deal with Delta they were either going to get airplanes for us or get airplanes from brand X.
So they will make their own decisions about how many airplanes they want where they want to fly them.
So it really has nothing to do with us.
And likewise we'll have the same number of airplanes with or without the 717 deal that we did.
So the other thing I would point out is that the city of Dallas has not awarded the gates much less the flying that is -- that you're speaking about.
So the DOJ has required that American divest 2 gates and it remains to be seen who will get those 2 gates.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I know you guys had applied to get them as well didn't you? I don't think I'm speaking out of school here but there is no process underway yet for the divestiture of those 2 gates.
So I assume when that happens that will be public and there'll be an auction or a bidding -- again we -- I don't know exactly how that's going to take place.
I do know that it has not taken place.
What is currently being focused on of course is the Reagan gates and slots that have been bid upon.
And so that's the only thing that is in play right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just on the cost guidance for the full year does that include the impact of the runway closings at San Francisco? Yes it does.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll take our last question from Dan McKenzie with Buckingham Research.
I guess either Tammy I guess or Gary I wonder if you can help peel back the onion on CapEx this year.
Specifically how does non-aircraft CapEx in '14 compare to '13? And with respect to the aircraft CapEx what percent of the planes would you consider financing or are you going to pay cash? And then thirdly tying that to liquidity now that we're in an economic recovery that seems well underway does the level of liquidity that is needed to run the airline change? Yes.
Dan sure I can give you a little more color on the CapEx.
We have -- our non -- our aircraft CapEx for 2014 is $1.1 billion that -- out of the $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion.
And of course the rest of that represents investments.
We've got elevated levels of technology spend related to our projects the implementation of our international reservation system.
So but the aircraft portion is $1.1 billion.
So in terms of the liquidity we feel -- we obviously have ample liquidity.
I think we could manage our cash position down certainly from the levels that we're at today.
And so somewhere in that $2.5 billion to $3 billion range I think in terms of cash and short-term investments I think we feel real comfortable at those levels.
We haven't laid out our plans for how much of those would be financed or not.
Obviously with the very healthy cash flows that we're generating we have some options there.
So we don't necessarily need to do any financing to pay for those.
That's obviously a choice that we have ahead of us.
Understood.
And then if I could peel back the onion a little bit on corporate travel simply because there's a lot of noise in the fourth quarter given the government shutdown and a lot of noise in the first -- in January at least so far given the weather-related cancellations.
How do we think about that trend in the fourth quarter heading into the first quarter based on what you're seeing so far? Actually our corporate sales for the fourth quarter increased very nicely.
We had a double-digit increase in the fourth quarter.
Our business traffic just overall I would characterize that as stable.
And I don't see any reason for that to change here in the first quarter.
With the improved economy hopefully we'll see some pickup there.
But we've been encouraged by the trends that we've seen so far.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom and thank you all again for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen we'll now begin with our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President Communications and Strategic Outreach.
Hello everyone.
Tom if you could give the folks some instructions to queue up and we will be able to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question from Terry Maxon with the Dallas Morning News.
You've got 120 to 130 flights today at Love Field about I think.
How many flights should we expect once the Wright Amendment goes away in October? Well we're chuckling.
More.
I think we'll probably ask you to stay tuned on that one more to come.
Well the -- can you give us some idea of the -- or the timetable for when you're going to announce that? Because you're right in that window where you typically would extend your schedule.
I presume perhaps the international announcements are tied up in that as well.
So I guess I'm just going to have to repeat that yes we are getting closer and not ready to reveal a date or what our plans are just quite yet.
All right.
And if you wouldn't mind restating your plans for international.
I took it from your comments to the analysts that as Southwest takes over we shouldn't expect more international service from the Southwest umbrella in 2014.
We would likely see any expansion starting in 2015? Correct.
And that's as we see it today understanding that the world is somewhat dynamic.
Of course the new things that have emerged for 2014 are the additional slots at LaGuardia and hopefully at Washington – or at Reagan.
So we'll have to manage those.
The current plan is to essentially take the AirTran international footprint and gradually move it over to Southwest.
And on that announcement yes sir we are days away from revealing what our international plans are.
So we would like to expand our international flying in 2015.
That's premature yet to make that commitment.
Obviously we are building 5 gates in Houston with the express intent of adding flights there.
So if we're going to -- we need to follow through and add flights at least in late 2015.
What we might do before that again we just haven't made a decision yet.
But we'll have ample opportunities to add international flying as we go forward.
So I'm very excited about that.
We'll take our next question from David Koenig with the Associated Press.
Gary you and Bob addressed fares in the analyst part of the call.
But I wondered if you could explain a little bit more about what's behind the increase in the average fare.
It looks like some of that could be due to longer average stage lengths but not all of it.
With demand pretty strong are you just selling fewer seats at Wanna Get Away prices? And also what percentage of seats are you selling at full fare? Is that going up? The main thing going on there David is just what you said.
It is that we're flying longer distances.
The mix changes constantly in terms of how people are buying seats on sale versus not.
So that is -- it is a fact that there were fewer sale seats sold in 2014 at least in the fourth quarter Bob.
So that -- the mix strengthened.
My recollection Tammy is that the full fare traffic was roughly flat year-over-year.
So it didn't change.
I don't know if you all released that statistic or not.
But you're right David that's some of it.
But the primary driver is that the distances are longer and that's what's driving the largest percentage of the fares up.
David yes that's exactly right.
The other benefits you have in there is we are constantly working on our revenue management technique.
So we have some improvements to our forecaster have some fare restructuring so not increasing and changing prices but just restructuring the way we look at inventory.
So we've had a contribution -- a pretty significant contribution from our revenue management techniques in 2013 as well.
The other thing happening of course is the literal transition from AirTran to Southwest.
And Southwest does not charge fees and they do and their fares are just different.
So that has an impact on the average fare as well.
Anything on the percentage of full fare? Do you have a first -- do you have a full fare percentage Tammy that you released that's published.
I sure do.
For fourth quarter '13 it was hovering right around 20%.
I'm sorry what should we compare that to? So what was that in the year-ago quarter or even the previous quarter? So that's from the fourth quarter.
It wasn't -- yes it wasn't significantly different.
We'll take our next question from Jack Nicas with the Wall Street Journal.
So labor cost increased by 6% or nearly $300 million in 2013.
How much of that was AirTran employees coming over to Southwest pay scale? Can you give us a little more color on that? And most of it was profit-sharing I think by the way but...
Yes that's right.
Probably -- if I had to it's probably about half of our -- as I mentioned in the analyst call that the total impact of bringing the AirTran employees over to Southwest is about $150 million.
And it was probably about half of that I would say that came over this year.
Okay great.
If I could have one more quick follow-up question.
As you lose the AirTran brand in 2014 obviously that means losing the bag fees from the full Southwest system.
Is there any estimate on the potential lost revenue from losing AirTran's bag fees in 2014? We're expecting our unit revenues for 2014 to be better.
That's our plan at least to be better than 2013 understanding that we will be rapidly losing bag fees from AirTran.
We've already been losing bag fees from AirTran and we're fine with that.
So it's all factored in to our revenue guidance.
I don't recall off the top of my head what the bag fee revenue was in the fourth quarter.
It was tens of millions of dollars.
But perhaps...
Yes for the -- I do.
For the AirTran -- I have the AirTran bag fees.
Those were about $16 million for the fourth quarter.
And for the...
So $60 million (sic) [$16 million] annual revenue stream that will not be in place in 2015 and we'll cover it through other means.
So that was -- again that was anticipated when we acquired AirTran back in 2011 and that's -- we're generating $400 million more earnings as a consequence of buying AirTran even with these bags fees gradually going away.
So we have a -- we don't need the bag fees and don't want them.
So we have -- we do -- we just -- we can't unravel what AirTran does until it completely is retired and comes over to Southwest.
And obviously as they move to Southwest they participate in EarlyBird upgraded boarding Business Select a lot of ancillary revenue production that we have on the Southwest side as well.
And just a stronger overall brand.
So it's just an interesting contrast between 2 businesses and how different they can be.
And of course it's hard to find an airline that's more different than Southwest and we think our differences are good.
And we'll take our next question from Andrea Ahles with the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
Gary I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the labor situation.
I know that you gave some guidance that your costs -- your unit costs going up but you didn't include any anticipation in contract changes.
Can you talk a little bit about the labor picture and if there's a particular group that you might be focusing on and trying to get their amendable contracts taken care of this year? Well we're -- again this is -- there's nothing unusual about our situation with our contracts.
We're always negotiating contracts and we're giving equal emphasis and attention to each one of them.
So I don't think we're trying to get one done versus the other at all.
We are trying to be fair and consistent amongst all of our employees.
So it is actually helpful to be talking with them simultaneously and that -- because circumstances change over time and their needs change our needs change.
So actually having them altogether is very helpful in that regard.
But our folks -- the main thing is our people are terrific.
They do a wonderful job they're very hardworking they have Southwest Airlines on top.
I'm delighted that they are so well rewarded with the great results this year with a near doubling of the profit sharing.
It'll be over 6% of their compensation.
They're -- most of them are stockholders and have seen a very nice appreciation in their Southwest stock and a very handsome increase in the dividend.
So there's more that we can do and we're -- Mike Van de Ven said earlier that we're anxious to get contracts get updated contracts with our employees because there's things that we want to do differently and there's things that we can do for our people.
In the meantime as you know are all of our employees have contacts and they continue until they're ultimately amended and we're working hard to get that done.
So what are some of the things that you want to do differently? Mike mentioned it.
It's more flexibility.
Our world has changed since the 1970s.
Then we had the same schedule every day every month year in year out.
Now we have significant variability from the season from day of week.
One of our days that needs the most attention for example is Tuesday.
So there's any variety of things that we could address to give our people a lot better resources time to when they -- when the needs exist with our customers so that's the primary thing.
And I think again there's opportunities with those kinds of efficiency gains.
There's opportunity to do good things for our people.
And we'll take our next question from Dawn Gilbertson with the Arizona Republic.
Gary I have a couple of quick questions.
I'm a little unclear on the announcement on international flights that's days away.
How much that play out in a city like Phoenix? You said we're not going to see any new destinations.
Right now we have a mix of some of the AirTran cities we can get to on you guys or a combination of both and some we can't.
So how might that change in Phoenix? And my other question has to do with Hawaii if you have any updates on Hawaii.
I think it's -- and I don't want to speculate right now but Phoenix doesn't have any AirTran international service today.
So obviously once we convert all the international flying into Southwest then Phoenix would be eligible for Southwest to consider launching nonstop international service.
So that...
So it's nonstop which could be different.
Yes ma'am.
So you could have flights to Mexico as an example ultimately on Southwest out of Phoenix.
I'm not predicting whether that will happen or when it might happen.
I'm simply saying that once we do that it very well -- well it could happen.
And that's something that Bob Jordan and his team will look at very carefully.
So what will be announced -- I guess then what will be announced in the next 2 days? I mean what will that release look like? I mean will it say -- I guess I'm a little unclear on what exactly you will be announcing that day.
Will it be routes or...
It will be -- yes it'll be routes it'll be flights it will be seats for sale prices the whole bit.
So it is -- as a general image all we've said is that we're simply going to take the current AirTran international route system and move it into Southwest.
You just can't take that literally.
So it will be -- whatever we do will be a little different than what AirTran is currently doing.
And so -- and I don't -- I'm not ready to reveal yet how Phoenix might fit into even that because the Southwest network Phoenix could very well have international itineraries even though it's not on a nonstop basis over the Southwest network.
So that is all to -- again to be revealed.
And then of course we're just getting started here in 2014 so it is our hope and desire that we're going to grow it from here.
Okay.
And then Hawaii? Well I've heard of Hawaii.
It sounds really exciting.
And one day...
You guys had been talking about it.
One day Southwest might fly there.
Well the only thing that we've said on is that we are investing in Southwest's capabilities so that we will have the option of flying to Hawaii at some point.
Whereas if you look at the -- in the rearview mirror and in prior years Southwest really didn't have the capability.
So you need additional technology you need additional equipment.
And those investments have largely been made.
It's somewhat analogous to this whole international discussion that in 2000 Southwest couldn't fly international.
We also couldn't fly to Hawaii.
Now we'll have those capabilities in place.
We have a wealth of growth opportunities to choose from and we'll be very circumspect of course as to which ones we're most seriously considering at any given point in time.
If we could have created all of the Hawaiian flying capabilities and kept that a secret we would have.
It's just impossible to do because it just plays out with so many people and it's so high profile.
But that's why you've heard about it otherwise you wouldn't know what we were up to and that's the way we like it.
If I can just ask one more quick one on the fee front.
Last year you did the No Show policy.
You upped the EarlyBird fee I believe that was in 2013.
What can travelers expect if anything this year in terms of new fees or -- I don't suppose you're going to announce you're going to increase any fees but what's you're thinking this year on that front? There's absolutely no change in our bag fees in terms of charging for the first or second bag.
There's absolutely no change in our change fees in that we don't charge them.
So I think that's pretty much what customers can expect is bags fly free and I'm delighted with what Bob and our marketing team accomplished here recently.
They've also extended the onboard television for free for another year.
So we love the word free at Southwest.
And ladies and gentlemen due to time constraints we have time for one final question.
It comes from Richard Velotta with the Las Vegas Sun.
I'm kind of piggybacking -- I'm going to piggyback on Dawn's question and just substitute Las Vegas for Phoenix.
I know we've had some discussions me and Mr.
Jordan had spoken about a possibility of international from Las Vegas with our international emphasis here.
Any change or any updates that I can report regarding the -- anything new with international with Southwest in Las Vegas? Well again we can just lift -- the answer is the exact same.
But Phoenix is very important to Southwest.
Las Vegas is very important to Southwest.
We'll reveal what the itineraries are soon and then everybody can see how they fit in in the meantime.
But in terms of the specifics as to whether or when we'll have nonstops out of Vegas again I can't speak to that today.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Rutherford for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you Tom.
Thanks for being with us on the call today.
If you have any follow-up questions please do contact the Communications Department (214) 792-4847 and thanks so much for your time.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's call to discuss our first quarter results.
Joining me on the call is Gary Kelly our Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways; and Mike Van De Ven Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
We will begin with opening remarks from Gary followed by Tammy providing a review of our results and our current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy's remarks.
Please be advised that today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please refer to this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
I'll turn the call now over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thank you Marcy and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Our first quarter results $126 million were excellent.
I'm very pleased very happy for all of our Southwest people.
They worked very hard to get us to this point and I am delighted to see them rewarded for their efforts.
Demand was very strong and very steady and resilient you might say considering the extreme weather and all the flight cancellations.
And I'm very grateful to our customers for hanging in there with us as well.
The bad weather definitely cost us but we still managed to stay on plan.
Fuel prices continued to be stable with some help from our fuel hedging program and currently we expect fuel price stability to continue with modest hedging protection at least for 2014 at about 20% coverage.
I'm very pleased with the progress on our 5 strategic initiatives starting at the top: All-new Rapid Rewards is of course up and running and very smoothly.
And in my opinion and where our folks are delivering the best frequent flyer plan in the business and it is exceeding our expectations.
Next is the 737-800.
We're now up to 54 units in the fleet.
It's delivering high load factors very strong revenues and of course lower unit cost.
So very pleased with that initiative.
Third is the rest of our fleet modernization.
It's very much on track.
The Evolve seating retrofits were completed last year and those aircraft are also delivering the added revenues at a lower unit cost.
The AirTran's 717 retirements are underway gradually being replaced by 737s in Southwest.
This too significantly boost revenue per trip for the really the same if not lower cost per trip.
And then finally we're continuing the accelerated retirement of the 737 Classics.
All combined these fleet activities are providing a boost to our fuel efficiency gains as well.
We completed -- next we completed the first phase of our reservation system replacement with the on-time launch of our new international reservation system that was done on January 27.
And even more satisfactory it's performed flawlessly.
And finally the last year of the AirTran integration is right on track.
Aircraft remain transitioned out of AirTran and effectively into Southwest.
Flight crews and dispatchers are transferring into Southwest at the same rate.
Published flights are rapidly coming down in the AirTran brand and coming up in Southwest Airlines.
The commercial aspect of the integration will be done by year end and we'll have some wind-down activities that will spill into 2015 but all those should be invisible to customers.
We'll launch more flights from LaGuardia Reagan and Love Field as planned.
LaGuardia and Reagan slots of course resulting from the AA divestitures and then Love Field expansion is due to the repeal of the Wright Amendment.
And then next year we'll launch more international flights and out of our new international terminal that's under construction at Houston Hobby.
So a lot of things going on in 2014 and they're clicking right along.
We're working on our 2015 plans.
We have a desire to grow modestly next year based on the results that we expect for 2014.
We are on track to achieve our return on invested capital target for 2014 and of course as usual that assumes no change in economic fuel price or cost trends.
But assuming we keep the fleet flat next year our roughly 695 aircraft given the large number of out-of-service airplanes that are coming back into service in 2015 in addition to the up-gauging effect of trading out 717s for 737s as well as adding 737-800s that would increase our seat capacity next year in the 2% to 3% range.
But until we report otherwise you should continue to assume a flat fleet for 2015 and that will allow for meaningful growth.
Our balance sheet is in superb shape.
It should strengthen this year as we continue to produce strong cash flow and pay down debt.
At the same time we've continued to reward our shareholders with share repurchases and increased dividends.
And our liquidity is exceptionally strong supporting these balance sheet moves.
So in short a great quarter and especially considering the weather the integration drags that continue in the high percentage of developing markets.
So I'm very very pleased to be here with you all this morning.
And now I want to turn it over to Tammy Romo our CFO.
All right.
Thank you Gary and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
I'll begin with a quick summary of our overall results and then I'll jump to the revenue and cost trends.
As Gary said our first quarter net income excluding special items was a record $126 million which was $0.18 per diluted share and that exceeded First Call consensus of $0.16.
This was a significant improvement over our first quarter last year's $53 million which was driven by improved performance each month of the quarter especially March which was a record profit performance.
Our first quarter GAAP net income was also a record $152 million.
Operating income excluding special items also set a first quarter record of $242 million which was a stellar performance especially considering the estimated $50 million reduction resulting from the winter storms.
Our pretax return on invested capital excluding special items for the 12 months ended first quarter was 14.2% which on an aftertax basis was 8.9% which exceeded our average cost of capital.
These are superb results and I'm grateful to our Southwest and AirTran warriors for their outstanding efforts especially during this year's challenging weather.
We are close to our 15% pretax ROIC goal and we plan to hit it this year although of course it's always difficult to predict the economy and fuel prices.
But we will continue to exert every effort to hit it.
Our record first quarter operating revenues increased 2% year-over-year to $4.2 billion on a 1% decrease year-over-year in ASMs.
Solid load factors across all haulings and healthy contributions from our revenue products contributed to our very strong first quarter revenues.
In addition our strategic initiatives remain on track and continue to contribute significantly to our profitability.
Both operating and passenger unit revenues were record first quarter performances.
Our first quarter business travel trends were also strong with double-digit increases in corporate sales.
Our passenger unit revenues grew 3.5% year-over-year which included about 1 point benefit from significant winter storm cancellations that reduced revenues by about $45 million but on 1.7% fewer ASMs.
January and February PRASM were each up over 5% followed by a 1% increase year-over-year in March PRASM.
This was an outstanding performance especially considering 2-point year-over-year unit revenue headwind from increased seat gauge and stage length which of course has a greater unit cost benefit.
In addition nearly 20% of our first quarter ASMs were under development.
Our revenue strength has continued thus far into April of course benefiting from the Easter and Passover holiday shift.
And based on current bookings and revenue trends thus far we expect April PRASM to be up year-over-year in the 6% to 7% range.
Keep in mind April also benefits from easier year-over-year comps compared to May and June.
Bookings for May and June are also currently solid.
And just one other consideration the July 4 holiday that falls on a Friday versus Thursday last year which could impact June travels.
Let's turn to freight and other revenues.
And our freight revenues grew 2.6% year-over-year as we continued to expand our award-winning cargo service with the integration of our AirTran network and other revenues declined year-over-year as expected largely due to the decrease in ancillary AirTran fees from a reduction in AirTran capacity all as planned.
Ancillary revenues on Southwest however did experience strength which was driven by EarlyBird and our A1 through A15 select boarding and as well as pet fees.
We currently expect second quarter other revenues to also decline year-over-year likely at a greater rate than experienced in first quarter again due to the ongoing conversion of the AirTran network.
I'll turn to fuel now.
Our first quarter 2014 economic fuel price per gallon including fuel taxes was $3.08 per gallon which was in line with our expectations and this was 6% below first quarter last year's $3.29 per gallon.
And that was largely driven by a favorable swing in jet juice [ph].
We also had a $0.06 hedging gain for the quarter and Brent also declined year-over-year but that was partially offset by an increase in crack spread.
Our first quarter results also benefited from better fuel efficiency as a result of our fleet modernization and other fuel conservation efforts.
Our first quarter fuel burn improved by about 1% year-over-year and that also reduced our fuel cost by roughly $15 million.
In our ongoing commitment to the environment we recently operated our first flight utilizing our Boeing 737-800 equipped with Scimitar Winglets and we are expecting annual fuel savings of approximately 5% to 5.5% per aircraft.
Our hedging premiums including below the line and other expenses were $17 million at first quarter and we are currently expecting a similar amount in the second quarter.
Our second quarter fuel consumption is -- we've got a modest hedge in place of about 15% and that's varying crude oil positions.
And based on our market prices and this is as of April 21 and our current hedge position our current second quarter 2014 economic fuel price is forecasted to be comparable to second quarter last year's $3.06 per gallon.
Excluding fuel profit sharing and special items our first quarter unit cost increased about 3.5% year-over-year and approximately 3 points of that year-over-year unit increase related to winter storms during the first quarter.
This better-than-expected cost performance was primarily due to favorable airport settlements that were not anticipated.
And our operating cost also benefited from lower advertising and technology spend for the quarter that have been reallocated to later in the year.
So based on current cost trends we expect second quarter unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to increase year-over-year in the 2% to 3% range.
And for the full-year 2014 we are also expecting a 2% to 3% year-over-year increase in our unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit sharing.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
We ended first quarter 2014 with $3.5 billion in cash and short-term investments which included $10 million in collateral held from third parties.
We had very healthy free cash flow for the first quarter with $712 million which supported our ability to return $371 million to our shareholders through repurchasing of $315 million of stock and distributing $56 million in dividends.
The repurchase of shares included a $200 million accelerated stock repurchase program that was executed on February 24 at which time we received 7 million shares representing 75% of what we anticipated receiving under the program.
The program will be completed by May 9 and at which time if needed we'll settle in either cash or shares.
We have $20 million remaining under our $1.5 billion repurchase authorization which we intend to complete this quarter.
Since the initial buyback authorization in August 2011 and including our quarterly dividend payments we've returned a meaningful $1.6 billion to our shareholders which demonstrates our long-term standing commitment to return value to our shareholders.
We made $46 million of debt payments during the first quarter.
And as a reminder we have approximately $500 million in debt in capital lease scheduled payments for the remainder of the year.
Our leverage including off-balance sheet aircraft leases was 38% as of March 31.
Our 2014 capital spending forecast is approximately $1.8 billion and that does include the cost of the DCA slots.
And about $1 billion to $1.1 billion of our total CapEx relates to firm aircraft spend.
With this manageable level of capital spend our cash flow outlook remains strong.
And we also remain steadfast in our commitment to manage invested capital which we've reduced by $1.1 billion since 2012.
Our balance sheet is investment-grade and it is always a priority for us to keep that strong.
Before I close I will spend just a few minutes on our fleet.
As you saw in the press release we've provided the detail in the text of the press release.
But to recap our full-year 2014 fleet plans we have 33 firm orders for -800s from Boeing and plan to add at least 14 preowned -700s.
We removed 22 717s from service in 2013 and the remaining 66 717s will be removed from service by the end of the year even though there will be some transitioning to Delta in 2015.
As of the end of the first quarter we have transitioned 24 717s to Delta.
In addition thus far we have transitioned 21 of the 52 AirTran -700s to Southwest which leaves 31 -700 aircraft remaining that we plan to transition before the end of this year.
And as Gary mentioned we have significant amount of activity we are managing this year as we wind down the AirTran brand and phase out the AirTran 717 fleet.
And at a high level we've been managing to a relatively flat fleet through the end of 2015 give or take a few aircraft with a baseline of roughly 695 aircraft which was our combined fleet at the time of the AirTran acquisition.
Our flight schedule is currently published through October 31 of this year and we will hold through our plan to maintain flat year-over-year ASMs for 2014.
We haven't set our fleet -- our capacity plans for 2015.
So while it's premature to give an ASM forecast for 2015 year-over-year growth in seats will be 2% to 3%.
And this of course will have significant unit cost benefit as we anticipated and of course we've got exciting growth opportunities ahead such as Love Field and Houston Hobby international flying in 2015.
Our commercial team has done an excellent job to-date of optimizing our network and our operations team is doing a superb job managing a significant amount of conversion activity.
In summary we have not set our 2015 plans but we have options to flex capacity up or down as needed.
And our Classic retirement plan was built to provide flexibility and we can also augment our fleet needs through the preowned market.
As we manage the integration work and removal of the 717s we will augment the firm orders and preowned aircraft and we may augment that beyond what we had disclosed in our press release.
But again all with the intention to manage to a flat fleet of 695 aircraft.
All of this has been contemplated in our CapEx guidance of $1.8 billion for 2014 and our 2015 CapEx is expected to fall below 2014 with a flat fleet of 695 aircraft in mind.
We have very exciting network opportunities and we will manage with a continued focus on achieving and sustaining adequate returns on capital.
So in closing we had a very strong first quarter 2014 performance and second quarter trends support continued momentum.
Our strategic plan is coming together very nicely and we're recognizing substantial benefits from our initiatives and investments.
We continue to have a disciplined growth strategy with flat year-over-year ASM capacity in 2014 and at least 2% to 3% seat growth in 2015.
We expect healthy free cash flows this year with manageable CapEx and debt obligations in 2014 and '15 and we have an investment-grade balance sheet.
We continue to return significant value to our shareholders through share repurchases dividends and healthy earnings and our 15% ROIC goal remains unchanged.
We are close to the goal and as I said earlier we will continue to exert ourselves to hit that.
And so with that Tom we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Tammy I think you talked about most of the AirTran -- or I think Gary had mentioned by year end that the commercial side will be -- will have been wound down.
What's the carrying cost? Like I can go onto the website and there's an AirTran website and I can call up and presumably I'm speaking with an AirTran res employee even though they're a Southwest employee.
What's that additional carrying cost that essentially goes away? Is it $30 million $40 million a year? What's the number how do we think about that? Just to make sure I'm tracking your question Mike.
You're asking what kind of inefficiencies do we have as we wind down the AirTran brand? Research Division</strong> Yes the cost of just supporting a separate brand.
I don't know if there's still any billboards left but the signage -- I mean there's -- obviously to maintain it there's got to be some cost associated with it that presumably would go away.
Yes no.
There's -- we -- I agree with you.
We certainly -- there are some inefficiencies as we maintain 2 brands and just the fact that we -- just from a scheduling perspective and a crewing perspective and especially given that we don't have a stable -- we've been managing our schedule through this integration.
I agree with you there will be -- should be some opportunities for improvement next year.
We haven't -- we'll start to work on our plan here for 2015 very soon but I would anticipate that there would be some efficiencies that we'll be able to gain next year.
We haven't put a figure to it yet but yes we'll certainly work to wring out any efficiencies that we can.
And of course our unit cost will also benefit from the up-gauging in our fleet modernization efforts as well.
And Mike the only thing that I would add to that really perfect answer is that most of the obvious stuff is gone.
So in other words the way you were describing it I don't think there are any material inefficiencies there by having a dual brand because our marketing folks are managing to one marketing budget.
So you might say that the AirTran brand -- in other words it's possible that the AirTran brand could be a bit under-supported but in any event I think there are definitely inefficiencies in the scheduling of 2 separate fleets that Tammy was referring to.
And those I think we've at least described qualitatively but I don't think we have a number to that yet.
But most of the obvious stuff is gone.
We don't have 2 headquarters we don't have 2 -- we don't have anything like 2 headquarters departments operating that's all consolidated into Southwest.
So it's really the inefficiency of having 2 operating companies I think is where the big opportunity's here.
Mike I'll give you just one example of an inefficiency it's just as we're going through the transition with the implementation of a new reservation system as an example.
Right now we are maintaining 3 reservation systems and of course with the goal to ultimately get to one.
So we do have some of those inefficiencies that we'll continue to work through.
So it's those types of ideas that we'll need to -- or opportunities that we'll need to continue to work as we plan for 2015 and even into 2016.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just my second question you talked about the higher CapEx number due to the purchase of the slots.
Have you called out what that number is what you paid for the slots? And then sort of along those lines I know that you've -- you're interested obviously in the Dallas Love Field gates.
Are there other American U.S.
Airways gates around their system that you'd be interested in or is it just Love Field? Well I'll let Tammy speak to the slots.
I believe that's confidential so we have not disclosed that.
But the Love Field gates are obviously -- there's only 2 of them so it's a rather modest opportunity there.
But in any event at this point we don't have any other interest.
Mike and the slots the slots are confidential and we have not disclosed that.
We'll take our next question from Savi Syth with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the seat growth in 2015.
I know it's still very early stages but I was wondering how much of that might be domestic versus international? Well international Savi is so small.
It's only 1% of our total capacity right now.
The international opportunity that I highlighted that you're aware of out of Houston Hobby is fourth quarter.
So it's not going to have a material capacity impact on 2015.
If I'm thinking out loud I think the vast majority is going to be domestic and probably oriented towards -- what we've already announced is our plans to expand the Dallas Love Field so all of that will be domestic.
So it'll be heavily weighted towards domestic.
Yes I would agree.
It's really Dallas and it's really the investment in the DCA slot flying and the LaGuardia slot flying that carries it into 2015.
And as Gary said our international business is a very small percent of the total already.
So even Houston on that for part of the year it's a small percent of a small percent.
So it's really the domestic.
Now we -- and let me just repeat again that we're only published through October.
So these are committed plans that Bob and I are sharing with you.
That's just our -- assuming that the fleet is flat and assuming you see that kind of seat growth that is what I would assume the split would be with those markets.
But we could decide just to be fair to your question we could decide between now and whenever we publish the second half schedule that we want to put more capacity next year internationally.
But that -- to me that's what is assumed with that flat fleet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just on the national flights that you're switching from AirTran to Southwest I know AirTran has some ancillary like baggage fees and other fees.
Are you able to capture that through higher fares on these international flights? Or is maybe introducing bag fees on just international something you would consider? I think the answer to your first question is yes.
You just look at the continued unit revenue growth.
And that includes bringing down the AirTran brand and bringing those flights up at Southwest.
And the other there is no thought to confusing the brand by offering bag fees on certain flights like international.
No.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Great.
And just if I may squeeze one last one related to this just -- so 1% of ASMs today how much and how fast could that increase do you think over the next few years international? Well again I think it's premature.
First of all we're -- we want to grow but we're cautious.
We -- the first priority here is to hit and sustain our return on capital.
So I think that's really premature but if -- I think it's going to continue to be a relatively modest component of the Southwest route system for the near future for over the next several years.
And we'll take our next question from Glenn Engel with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on labor Gary Tammy.
One is when I looked at the departures they were down 5.9% in the quarter yet headcount was down only 1.4%? So why aren't we seeing -- it seems like your productivity at least on the departure basis got worse.
And then two can you go over the profit-sharing calculation and how we should do that going forward and whether current integration charges are now starting to flow through the profit-sharing line? Yes.
Glenn I think on just your question on trips relative to headcount we obviously had a lot of inefficiency just due to -- I'll attribute that largely to the weather.
And on the profit sharing again our profit sharing was $29 million for the quarter and that was reduced by $6 million related to acquisition and integration costs half of which were incurred in first quarter '14 and the other half related to integration costs incurred from April 2011 through December 23 which was in accordance with our profit sharing plan.
And so the integration costs that deferral period -- for that deferral period totaled about $385 million and that will result and this is probably what you need Glenn and that will result in $58 million of lower profit sharing expense to be recorded January '14 through December 2018 and $3 million of which lowered our first quarter '14 profit sharing expense.
Research Division</strong> And additional integration cost did those now impact profit sharing? Are those also...
Those just flow right through like you normally would.
So that was our -- we're past our cutoff period.
So yes that would just flow through the profit sharing calculation as normal.
Glenn on your headcount productivity question the other thing -- and of course I know you know all this but you can't just use trips as the only proxy for the headcount.
So the available seat miles are probably a better proxy for flight crews.
And then the trips are also getting -- some of them are getting more flight attendants per trip as an example.
So there's a -- while yes the trips are down and it does provide some relief for some workgroups it is certainly not all.
And we'll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So Tammy about a year ago you said you guys are going to tighten some flexibility around some of your most restricted fares and you said it was going to be done later in 2013.
I'm kind of curious what you did what you found out and if it was successful or not and if there's anything you can do going forward on that.
Yes.
Hunter what we did recently is we did tighten restrictions on our Wanna Get Away fares and that's just essentially -- it's just a no-show.
I would consider that really more of a no-show penalty and essentially if you don't call and cancel your flight those funds would be forfeited.
LLC</strong> Okay.
You're -- specifically for the No Show policy? That's right.
That's exactly what I was referring to.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And can we talk about sort of the relationship between advertising expense and distribution strategy.
You guys spend about $200-plus million a year on advertising which is a lot.
And I understand that because you need people to go to southwest.com to buy your tickets.
But have you thought about that in the context of maybe putting some more of your inventory on online travel agencies? That would give you more exposure that way and maybe alleviate some of the expense on the advertising side that you would have to get in people's minds to go to southwest.com.
If they just go to Expedia and see your fare there maybe you could spend a little bit less on advertising while sort of also tweaking the distribution strategy a little bit.
Any thoughts on the relationship between those 2? Well Hunter I guess I'll comment and then see if Gary or Bob have anything to add.
But in terms of -- usually the online as you know those are usually customers looking for discount fares and we have no issue with that on southwest.com.
We drive a lot of customers to southwest.com because they know that they can rely on us for low fares.
And just another I think interesting fact too is that once we started distributing AirTran fares on southwest.com we quickly became their largest distribution channel.
So we're always looking at advertising and always looking for ways to spend those dollars more efficiently and we'll obviously continue to do that going forward.
But at this point we don't have any major changes contemplated for our distribution strategy.
Yes Hunter.
This is Bob.
I'll just add a couple of more things.
Obviously AirTran uses the OTAs and to Tammy's point we've seen no issue converting AirTran market flights to -- and customers to southwest.com.
In fact those markets are converting and maturing at a rate that's better than a typical new market for Southwest so I really believe in our distribution strategy.
The other thing really on the advertising when you comp us to others you've got to think about total distribution costs.
So what's -- what you've got to add back are they're paying for GDS fees and bookings and there are all kinds of costs that you have to look at in total as distribution in addition to just advertising.
And every time we look at that across all of our competitors we are in the lowest whether you look at that on a per-passenger basis or a per-revenue-generated basis.
So I'm very comfortable with where our costs are if you look at total distribution costs which would include advertising.
But as Tammy said we're always watching our advertising costs.
I mean as an example only we're managing the combined AirTran and Southwest brand basically at the same level of advertising cost that was Southwest only prior so we're constantly looking for efficiencies there.
Yes.
And we certainly have realized that to Bob's point which all that's been factored into the synergy numbers that we provided for AirTran.
And we'll take our next question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary and Tammy definitely appreciate the additional color on seat count growth next year.
Of course some of that is sort of onetime in nature.
I'm curious if the team is willing to speak to a long-term ASM growth rate.
If we envision a world where you're hitting your 15% ROIC target what would be like a steady-state Southwest growth rate? Well I think it's premature to say.
I think that's really not so much a strategic question as it is tactical.
This is a very tactical business and especially when it comes to growth and growth opportunities I think number one is you have to have a strong balance sheet.
Number two you have to have confidence that your earnings will provide adequate returns and then you have to be confident that you know how to manage growth.
So we've been a growth company for most of our history and I do feel like the company has a lot of institutional knowledge about how to identify new markets and about how long it takes to develop them and about how much should be exposed at any given point in time.
The other factor of course over a longer period of time that is key to your question is what are fuel prices going to be; and then secondly what our overall costs going to be because that will mean everything about generating more passengers and traffic and share for Southwest Airlines.
So under the assumption that we continue to be if not the low cost producer or darn near close to it and maintain our low fare brand and fuel prices remain stable over the next decade I think we have significant opportunities to grow the fleet from here.
I wouldn't say that that's 10% per annum I think that that was for this industry and for our company otherwise.
So something in the low-single digits makes sense in terms of a planning horizon.
But you are right to point out John that here in the meantime when you go from 2012 to '13 to '14 to '15 there's a lot of noise from year-to-year.
And so once we get clear of 2015 that's something we'll be focused on and we'll want to manage our growth very carefully and again with an eye towards keeping the balance sheet strong and hitting our return on capital.
Research Division</strong> That is very thorough.
And the good part about the noise as you mentioned Gary in your prepared remarks is that it's going to improve the cost structure.
When we think about all of the moving parts in 2015 and we think about sort of the seat utilization kind of popping back on the up-gauging from the -800 and the change in mix there as well as perhaps even going back to Mike's question earlier on some of these AirTran expenses going away I mean it seems natural to think that we should see a deceleration meaningfully in the CASM x fuel growth perhaps even a flat to down trend given all these numbers.
I'm not sure if I've got the moving parts right.
Maybe I'm missing some risks outside of labor.
If you could just help me kind of think through that directionally that would be helpful.
Well -- and Tammy you chime in too.
John you've been very thorough as well in your analysis.
That is all intuitive.
We have the same view that you do.
We have not finalized our plan yet and therefore we're just not ready to provide any guidance.
But if you think about the swap from the 717 to the 737 just to repeat what I said in my remarks the costs are essentially the same.
They may even be lower to operate the same number of airplanes yet you're getting 26 more seats on every single departure.
So when we talk about growth for Southwest next year I'm not going to argue to you that it's free because it is true that we can choose to have fewer airplanes if we don't believe that we can generate that much traffic.
But you're right with this -- the growth we're talking about in the near term should come at a very modest cost relative to a normal view of a fully allocated unit of growth.
So that certainly factors in somewhat to our thinking but the bottom line is we need to be comfortable that we can generate traffic to absorb the increase in seats that we are planning for next year.
So if we end up growing seats 2.5% next year then we need to be comfortable that we'll grow our traffic by 2.5%.
If we don't then I don't think that we should be pursuing it.
And we'll take our next question from Joe DeNardi with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I guess my understanding the part of the reason you're keeping capacity flat this year is to facilitate ROIC improvement.
So does that imply simply that growing capacity is a negative for ROIC? No but I think it's just common sense that tells you that if your base business is not achieving your return target why would you increase the base? I think it's just that simple.
As a practical matter the other thing that we keep reminding you and everyone about is that there's just a lot of work going on.
So the aircraft movements out of Southwest AirTran and into Southwest are going to be in record numbers.
And then for Mike Van De Ven and our operating departments that creates record numbers of training events for employees so it's a lot of activity to manage.
If you then said "Now I want to grow by x number of aircraft on top of that " I just think that that is unwise on its face.
So for several reasons we want to maintain relatively flat capacity in 2014 but the main reason is we haven't hit our 15% target yet.
So I think we need to do that first and then make a judgment about whether that's sustainable with growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes that's helpful.
On the flexibility you have in terms of capacity for 2015 should I think about the driver there in terms of up or down is that really going to be a function of the demand and pricing trends that you're seeing? Or should I think of it more as you guys using that as a means of managing kind of CASM growth? I think it's demand.
Yes clearly what we're trying to do is optimize the network to match customer demand and I think our commercial team is doing a great job with the network and -- as evidenced by our first quarter results.
And again that's what I was trying to say earlier which is if we're going to increase seats we need to be comfortable that we will also increase customers.
It helps mitigate the risk to know that the growth is going to come online at a very attractive cost but that's not the reason to grow.
The reason to grow is because we believe we can increase the traffic and the revenues and then it would again come hopefully at a very attractive cost of debt service.
We'll take our next question from Thomas Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Tammy can I just ask you with regard to some cost items can you provide a little more color on the maintenance side? I think you had mentioned that there was a little bit of delay or deferral in Q1.
Should we assume that that gets pushed into Q2? And if you could quantify that to some extent I would appreciate it.
Yes.
Our maintenance costs that we did have that came out a little bit lower than expected for first quarter just due to shifting.
But all of that has been incorporated into the guidance that we gave you so it's not -- I don't -- it's not material.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a minor point but I'm curious as to what drove the 5% increase in other OpEx.
Oh part of that is weather.
If you look at our increase the 3.5% CASM increase unit cost increase excluding profit sharing and special items really most of that was attributable to weather for the quarter.
And we also had some shifting in our technology spend but -- so some of that will get shifted out throughout the rest of the year.
But again that's been incorporated into our 2% to 3% increase for the full year in that guidance.
We'll take our next question from David Fintzen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Gary can you remind me -- we've been talking a lot about the 15% return target.
Can you remind me why it's 15%? I mean it's something that I can -- I just remember as long as I've been around.
I mean -- and I suspect it came in the '90s when 15% probably meant something much bigger than it does today.
And what I mean by that is 15% now as a return target not dissimilar from your other large competitors and frankly it's lower than really the growth-oriented carriers.
So when you start thinking about growth and return targets shouldn't that target really be much higher? I don't have a problem in debating where the target should be.
And as -- I think it also depends on how fast one grows.
So if we don't grow I think that the target probably should go up.
If we do grow -- the main thing is are we creating shareholder value or not.
And so it's a matter of art as to how much of a premium over our weighted average cost of capital we need to be earning.
You look at -- of course you're an expert at this.
You look at broader indices or broader performance across industries which we do and feel like the 15% is an adequate return.
But that's something that we obviously would continue to consider and talk with our major shareholders about.
And so the other thing and you know the industry well that I would remind you is that there are very few -- there are no airlines who have hit a 15% return on invested capital over this cycle except for Southwest Airlines.
And that is what we did in the '70s.
That's what we did in the '80s and that's what we did in the '90s.
So that history alone would tell you that it is not -- it's not a layup to hit that.
But in any event Tammy already said that that's our target and the target has not changed.
Does that mean that it will forever be 15%? No.
I don't think -- I wouldn't say it that way but certainly for 2014 we work very hard for a decade to get to this point and are not going to be ashamed to turn in that kind of performance if that's the way it turns out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
It just helps to kind of put the -- frame the debate around the fleet growth.
That's very helpful.
The other question I actually intended to ask was can you just help us think a little bit about aircraft utilization and maybe even broader asset utilization kind of going forward? I mean historically you've run kind of sweat the assets.
It's a little more tactical business now in terms of keeping schedules in the meat of the day and the meat of the year so to speak.
I mean should -- when we're thinking about aircraft utilization over time should we be assuming that you don't go back to where maybe Southwest ran 5 6 7 years ago? Well David you -- again you know us well and you know this business very well.
The utilization just as a quick refresher has varied a little bit since we bought AirTran.
So AirTran as a unit has never been I would say efficiently scheduled.
So we've had a little bit of slop in there.
And then of course we've had a lot of aircraft out of service in 2013 and now in 2014 going through various conversions either of all the seats or now converting airplanes out to Delta or converting them into Southwest all the things that you know about.
So at least we can say that we are underutilized right now and that the utilization will improve once we get clear of this integration work in 2015 and especially 2016.
So that we can agree to.
As to will the airline schedule the way that it did before 2008 or '09 where we had a lot of early morning flights a lot of late evening flights I don't think so.
And again I think we just only have to be open to the fact that things might change.
But unless the demand reappears at that time of the day and it is efficient to schedule an airplane on a marginal cost basis I don't see that that flying will come back.
But you've got $100 crude oil $110 crude oil today compared to a time where it was $10 to $20 a barrel which made it more viable to operate flights on the shoulders with less than 50% load factors and that's just not the case today.
So as long as that case remains then absolutely you'll see the flight schedule in the meat of the day.
And Bob we're probably at the highest percentage ever.
Aren't we about 88% 89% 90% scheduled between 7 a.m.
and 7 p.m.? We are.
We -- for 5 years now we've cut those early and late flights really just based on demand.
I mean it's a flight-by-flight market-by-market exercise.
And yet we've got more flights than ever where the demand is in the day so I think it's a great thing from a financial and flight performance perspective.
Yes I would expect that -- I wouldn't expect that trend cutting early and late to continue at the pace it has over the past 5 years.
So I think we're more stable now but I don't see us going back.
For us we've got opportunities to consider.
Red-eye flying and things like that and that is something that Bob and Mike are thinking about but we don't have any plans to make any material change in the way we're scheduling the fleet for any reason for that matter.
But that would be the 1 exception perhaps to the shoulder flying comments.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Baker with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick clarification for Tammy on non-passenger demand.
Did you say other revenue would decline here a bit more than in Q1 or freight mail and other.
It doesn't make a huge difference but I wanted to clarify.
I said other.
And that's just obviously as we're moving AirTran flying over to Southwest that would be the ancillary revenues.
But -- and so we'll see that's just simply the remainder of ancillary charges going away as we move them over to the AirTran brand.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then a question -- I'm sorry were you adding something else? Jamie I was just going to clarify that at least on the freight side since we haven't talked about freight we are adding more and more markets since AirTran did not previously carry freight.
So I think we have decent opportunities to grow the freight revenue category.
But the other category that you asked about that Tammy mentioned yes that will continue to decline.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And then Gary a question on the progress with the pilots.
The challenge that I'm facing is that your existing contract already appears to be among the industry's more if not most efficient.
And I certainly understand that the pilots like to see wages increase.
I mean that makes perfectly good sense.
What's less clear is what management's ask [ph] might look like in terms of improved economics.
It's not like you need scope really for RJs or anything like that.
So I know you don't want to negotiate in public but are there any competitor contracts that you could point to and you'd say "Hey Airline X over there has some really interesting flexibility in the pilot contracts " something like that? Well Jamie you're right we are efficient.
But we have things that are tangible today that are under discussion that would give Southwest more flexibility and make Southwest more efficient.
So as good as we are there are always things that can change.
And as a matter of fact there are absolutely some examples with competitors.
And if you will permit me I won't share who those are.
But in any event absolutely there's always opportunities with every workgroup always to find ways to improve.
And the nice thing is we're doing well we've got good news there are definitely some things that we can do for our people going forward as well and keep Southwest strong and build well for all our employees and that's a wonderful place to be.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom.
And as always if there are any follow-on questions please feel free to call.
We appreciate you all joining today and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President of Communication and Outreach.
Thanks Tom.
For the media folks on the call if you've got a question go ahead.
And Tom let them know how they can queue up for that.
[Operator Instructions] We will now begin with our first question from Terry Maxon with the Dallas Morning News.
As you are probably aware of Virgin America has scheduled an event tomorrow to announce something about their Dallas operations.
The -- have you got a sense that the competition for those gates have been settled? Have you gotten any word whether Virgin America is getting them or that you're out of the competition for them? Terry we are waiting patiently to see what the next step is in the process.
So as far as I am aware we are still in the running for consideration.
Delta wants the City of Dallas to take control of the gates and make them common use gates.
Is that an acceptable alternative to Southwest? Or do you believe that one way or the other one airline should definitely get them? Well I think that sort of gets into the contractual aspect of the lease and nothing that I really want to comment on.
So I can understand why somebody would argue for that but it's going to be up to the City of Dallas and its lease with American and their sublease rights to determine how to apply this.
So I'd rather not comment on that.
And we'll take our next question from Andrea Ahles with Fort Worth Star Telegram.
So I think Terry asked part of my question which is about the Love Field gates.
But I was wondering if you could also talk about how has demand been for the new flights since you released the schedule? Have you had a lot of interested people on the Love Field flights and which might be getting on it [ph] ? Are you considering other cities you might be adding in 2015 if you get those gates or if -- as you start to improve your schedule going forward at Love Field? Well Love Field is -- of course it's going to happen so we've already preannounced that we'll be selling more flights to more destinations sometime soon.
So we're not taking bookings yet Andrea as I think you know on the 15 new nonstop destinations that we've announced.
That's a "stay tuned." I think Tammy mentioned already that our business out of Love Field is up significantly.
It's up double digit this year even without the new flights yet.
So I don't know that we can quite explain that other than just a great service that our Southwest warriors offer every day.
But yes our business in Love Field is good and we're looking forward to launching the new service here later this year.
Do you know when you're going to make those flights available for purchase? I do know.
When would that be? Linda have we disclosed that yet? We've not yet at the time.
We haven't said that yet so stay tuned.
We'll take our last question from Aaron Karp with Air Transport World.
You talked about how you think the international flying will be a relatively modest component for the next few years.
How much of a revenue enhancement do you think international will be near term? And are you looking at it primarily as a long-term growth opportunity? Well over the long term I think it's a large opportunity.
We're thinking about it as North America.
I would throw in Hawaii and Alaska just because it is so different than flying in the 48 states into that whole growth opportunity.
We serve 96 cities today with Southwest and AirTran and have a potential to add 50 new destinations over some period of time and that would be several hundreds worth of airplanes -- worth of flying.
So it's a very material opportunity.
And as I mentioned earlier growing the airline is in many ways tactical.
We've made the strategic investment to create the capability at Southwest to fly beyond the borders and to fly longer distances.
So that strategic decision is made and is in place.
Then where we decide to go within that geographic footprint that will depend on a lot of factors.
But in any event I would absolutely expect that 1% would grow as a percentage of our total.
At what rate I'm not willing to predict yet.
Bob I don't know if you have a number off the top of your head what the potential is.
I don't think it's going to be half of our business.
It's not going to be anything like that.
I'd be surprised if it was 25% of our business.
But it could probably be in the 10% 15% range don't you think? Yes I think so.
The domestic market is obviously much more mature.
So the international markets that we're looking at are -- there's still a lot of room for development so more room for competition a lot of higher fares.
Obviously those will connect very well to our very mature domestic network our very wide domestic network.
So I think there's a lot of opportunity there.
But it's a lot of opportunity on a relatively small base compared to the total.
So yes I would expect to Gary's number sort of the high-single digits low-double digits is where I feel like we can grow to.
But again that growth rate -- the growth potential on the current base is much larger simply because the base is so small today.
And again this all assumes 737 service.
The geographic footprint is all of North America including the Caribbean and actually the northern reaches of South America.
So it's a very exciting opportunity 200 airplanes.
I didn't do the math in my head but that would be about not quite 1/3 increase in the fleet.
So it's longer-haul flying which takes longer and it is higher revenue so maybe our 10% to% 15 estimate is low.
But we need to walk before we run here and we're excited and ready to get started.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Rutherford for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom.
If anybody has any follow-up members of the media can reach out to our folks in the communications department and have a wonderful afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Southwest Airlines Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I'll be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
Welcome to today's call to discuss our second quarter results.
On the call today is Gary Kelly our Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer President of AirTran Airways; and Ron Ricks Executive Vice President and Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer.
We will begin with opening remarks from Gary followed by Tammy providing overview of our results and current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy's remarks.
Please be advised today's call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And Gary now we'll turn it over to you for opening remarks.
Thank you very much Marcy and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for our second quarter 2014 earnings.
We're very pleased with the second quarter performance.
I'd like to point out a list of things before Tammy takes us through the financial results.
First of all I want to thank all of our employees for their hard work for successfully transforming Southwest Airlines for these stellar earnings results and then for the historic year of 2014 that they are managing.
Second the quarterly results include significant planned benefits from our all-new Rapid Rewards program the AirTran acquisition and our fleet modernization.
We would not have these results without these initiatives.
Third the network optimization over the last 5 years has paid off handsomely supported of course by our strategic initiative but we have significant market strength across our route network.
It is very impressive.
It's very encouraging.
And while we have a very large percentage of the network under development almost 20% unlike a year ago it's not a significant drag on our performance.
And we've got reason to believe that this segment will mature rapidly.
Fourth the cost control efforts which is essentially our fleet modernization initiative is working very well producing fuel efficiency as well as nonfuel efficiencies.
Fifth we have a number of large nonroutine programs and projects that are being managed.
Several become final this year International the repeal of the Wright Amendment and the completion of the AirTran integration.
Let me just go through each of those very quickly.
First we've finished and launched international right on schedule.
That is a very key milestone for wrapping up the AirTran integration.
There are probably thousands of people to thank for what has been a flawless effort to get international up and running for Southwest Airlines.
And I am very grateful to them all but in particular our technology department and their leadership on this project.
The repeal of the Wright Amendment is now 88 days away.
The schedule's out for sale.
It is a superb schedule.
The airport construction is close to completion.
The airport is also working superb and our marketing and advertising is in full swing and it is superb.
We've got more surprises planned for the fall.
It will be a joyous celebration after 35 years of restrictions at Dallas Love Field.
And then finally we are right on track to move airplanes and people out of AirTran and into Southwest by year end to convert the remaining airports and routes from AirTran to Southwest by year end and then retire the AirTran brand and the few remaining Boeing 717s that we'll have by year end.
And of course that's a lot of work that I just ticked through and our people are doing a superb job of managing all of that.
Sixth we are continuing to generate very strong cash flow allowing us to reduce debt reduce outstanding shares return value to shareholders with LUV at a lifetime high.
We've got a $1 billion-plus share repurchase authorization to continue returning value to our shareholders along with our quarterly dividend.
And that was just increased by 50% by our board in our main meeting.
And then finally our third quarter earnings outlook is strong.
That of course is at this point in time.
We'll continue to closely monitor our results and our outlook the economy and fuel prices as we now contemplate reasoned and measured available seat mile growth beginning in 2015.
And our immediate priority with growth is of course Dallas Love Field number one; and then secondly Washington Reagan.
That is as we begin to operate and fly the slots that we acquired from American earlier this year for Washington Reagan.
And our focus will be reliable excellent operations outstanding customer service and consistent strong profits which means a return on invested capital of at least 15%.
And as planned we've got tremendous growth opportunities that have been enabled beyond 2014.
And that really is a remarkable change since just 2010.
And all of that is a wonderful thing.
But those opportunities will have to be prioritized and they'll have to be pursued in a manner that allows us to achieve our annual goals.
And again to repeat those it is excellent reliable operations; it is outstanding customer service and consistent profits at our target -- targeted ROIC of at least 15%.
So Tammy with that overview I'd like to turn it over to you.
And congratulations Ms.
Romo on a wonderful quarter Well thank you Gary and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
As we reported our second quarter 2014 net income excluding special items was $495 million or $0.70 per diluted share which represents our fifth consecutive quarter of record profitability.
These are very strong results and we are seeing significant benefits from our strategic initiative.
Our profits were up 77% with EPS up 84% which is a significant year-over-year improvement.
And that was driven by strong revenues lower fuel prices and our ongoing cost control efforts.
Our second quarter GAAP net income was also a record $465 million.
Our operating income excluding special items also set a second quarter record and produced a stellar 16.3% operating margin.
And of course I'm delighted to say our pretax return on invested capital excluding special items for the 12 months ended June 30 was 17.1% which on an after-tax basis was 10.7% well exceeding our weighted average cost of capital.
This is a tremendous accomplishment that required much work and focus by all of our people and I congratulate and thank all of our outstanding employees for the strong financial results released this morning.
Our second quarter revenue performance was very strong and we broke many records.
Operating revenues increased to a record $5 billion driven by record passenger revenues of $4.8 billion which increased 8.5% year-over-year on relatively flat ASM.
Strong demand for travel both business and leisure resulted in record traffic passenger yields and load factors.
And as Gary already said our strategic initiatives also significantly contributed to our record second quarter revenues.
I also want to mention that our second quarter passenger revenues included $47 million related to a change to previously recorded estimates of tickets expected to spoil in the future.
But with or without this additional revenue passenger unit revenues were very very strong.
And as we reported PRASM grew 9% year-over-year and that was supported by unit revenue strength across all regions and lengths of haul.
This was an outstanding performance especially considering roughly 2-point year-over-year unit revenue headwind from increased seat gauge and stage length which of course had an even greater unit cost benefit.
As Gary already mentioned we had close to 20% of our second quarter ASMs under development which is significantly higher than historical norms.
And our international and other developing markets resulting in large part from the AirTran integration are ramping up nicely and are performing in line with our expectations.
Strong revenue trends have continued [indiscernible] per quarter.
And based on current bookings and revenue trends we expect July's PRASM to be up year-over-year roughly 3% over last July's strong performance.
And bookings for August and September are also good.
So our revenue outlook for third quarter is quite good.
But keep in mind third quarter year-over-year comparisons will be more challenging due to the strong prior year trends.
Moving to freight and other revenues.
Freight revenues grew 2.3% year-over-year as we continue to expand cargo service with the integration of our AirTran network.
And we currently expect third quarter freight revenue to be comparable to second quarter.
And although we had solid gains in our ancillary products other revenues declined year-over-year as expected due to this decrease in fees of course as we wind down the AirTran line.
And other ancillary revenues were also $58 million.
We currently expect other revenues in third quarter to also decline year-over-year likely at a greater year-over-year rate than we experienced in second quarter.
And that's simply due to the ongoing conversion of the AirTran network.
Turning to costs.
We had a solid performance with operating costs comparable to second quarter last year.
And on a unit basis costs excluding special items increased only 1.2%.
In addition to the cost reductions from our strategic initiatives we also benefited from lower fuel costs.
Our second quarter economic fuel price per gallon was $3.02 per gallon which reflected a $0.05 hedging gain.
And our fleet modernization and other fuel conservation initiatives improved fuel burn by 1.4% year-over-year which reduced our second quarter fuel costs by approximately $20 million.
Our third quarter fuel hedge consists of 10%.
It's 10% hedged at varying crude oil prices and about 25% in Gulf Coast jet varying prices.
Based on market prices as of July 21 and our current hedge position our third quarter 2014 economic fuel price is forecast to be in the $2.95 to $3 range.
And our hedging premiums are estimated to be about $15 million in the third quarter.
Excluding special items and fuel and oil expense our unit costs were up 3.4%.
A significant portion of this increase was driven by a record profit sharing of $127 million.
And when you exclude profit sharing our unit costs increased just 1.7% year-over-year.
And this was slightly better than our 2% to 3% guidance on unit costs primarily due to the shift of certain costs such as advertising and training to the second half of the year.
Based on current cost trends we expect third quarter unit costs excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to increase year-over-year similar to what we saw in the second quarter which was a 1.7% year-over-year increase.
Turning to our very healthy balance sheet and cash flow.
We ended second quarter 2014 with $4 billion in cash and short-term investments which included $105 million in collateral held from third parties.
Our free cash flow during the second quarter was a strong $838 million.
And year-to-date we have generated approximately $1.6 billion.
As a result of our strong free cash flow generation we've returned $652 million to our shareholders through the repurchase of $555 million in stock and the distribution of $97 million in dividends for the first half of this year.
And since August 2011 our buyback authorization at that time and including our quarterly dividend payments we returned a meaningful $1.9 billion to our shareholders.
In the second quarter we repurchased $240 million in shares and distributed $42 million in dividend payments including our June payment which represented our 151st consecutive quarterly dividend paid to shareholders in our history.
We have $780 million remaining under our $1 billion share repurchase authorization which was announced in May along with a 50% increase in our quarterly dividend.
And since the acquisition of AirTran we've also reduced our debt and capital lease obligations net by a significant $1.5 billion and intend to repay an additional $440 million and scheduled that in capital lease payments for the second half of this year.
Our leverage including off-balance sheet aircraft leases was 37% as of the end of June.
Our 2014 capital spending forecast remains at approximately $1.8 billion with $1 billion to $1.1 billion of that related to firm aircraft spend.
And that brings me to the fleet and I'll refer you to our press release for our second quarter activity.
But here's a quick recap of our full year 2014 fleet plans.
We have 33 firm orders for 737-800 from Boeing and plan to add at least 17 preowned 737-700.
We've removed 41 of the AirTran 717s from service.
The remaining 47 will be removed from service by the end of this year.
As of the end of the second quarter we've transitioned 36 717s to Delta and currently plan to transition 16 more this year.
In addition thus far we've transitioned 24 of the 52 AirTran -700s to Southwest which will leave 28 -700 aircraft remaining that we plan to transition before the end of this year.
Our fleet plans still includes managing to a relatively flat fleet through the end of 2015 with a baseline of roughly 695 aircraft which again was our combined fleet at the time of the AirTran acquisition.
We expect our third quarter 2014 ASMs to increase year-over-year approximately 2% and full year 2014 ASMs to be up under 1% year-over-year.
And again for 2015 we expect our available seat miles to increase year-over-year and that's driven by the 2% to 3% increase expected in seats from the updating of our fleet along with the higher utilization of our fleet post-integration.
2015 ASMs are also expected to grow from a longer stage length on the new flights at Love Field DCA LaGuardia and new international flying from Houston.
As we manage the integration work and removal of the 717s and as previously guided we plan to augment the firm orders and free [ph] on aircraft beyond what we have disclosed in our press release.
So really no new news there.
To close we are delighted with our second quarter earnings performance which exceeded our expectations.
Our Southwest warriors have worked very hard to execute our strategic initiatives and restore our financial performance.
And it's very gratifying to see how well it's all coming together here in 2014.
The benefits relating to the AirTran integration our fleet modernization efforts the -800s and our new Rapid Rewards program are all meeting or exceeding expectations.
And the full replacement of our reservation system is off to a great start.
July 1 was a day of great pride here at Southwest as we successfully launched international service to Aruba Montego Bay in Jamaica with our new international reservation system.
And the network opportunities that we have ahead are very exciting and we will continue to focus on achieving and sustaining adequate returns on capital.
Our cash flow and balance sheet remain strong and we will continue our diligent efforts to provide adequate returns to our valued shareholders.
And although we still have a few months to go before we can claim victory for full year 2014 we are very well positioned to meet or exceed our 15% target with the exceptional results produced during the first half of the year.
And with that overview Tom we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Tammy back to the -- on the aircraft.
I think you said that you were going to be bringing on what 17 used 737s.
Are those -700s or -800s? Is that a mix? It's -700s.
Research Division</strong> And is that all this year or into next year? Yes the 17 that I gave is all this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the -- when you talked about next year I just -- to clarify the seat count is up 2% to 3% but then you threw in a point about longer stage length.
So I guess is it -- if we think about it on an ASM basis it's going to be slightly higher than 2% to 3%? Is that how we should think of it? Yes.
Mike we haven't provided our full year ASM outlook.
However we will be publishing our first quarter 2015 schedule in the coming weeks and that will reflect about a 5% ASM growth year-over-year.
And Mike I know you'll remember this.
We had 1.5 points of this growth is -- we're expecting that to be due to as you recall first quarter last year we had -- we were impacted by the -- or actually first quarter this year we were impacted by the winter storms.
And of course as you would expect with the sunset of the Wright Amendment we'll have -- likely have a longer flying out of Love Field and also DCA and likely LaGuardia.
So I think that accounts for the difference between the -- kind of the 2% to 3% increase in seats versus the 5% ASM growth that we're expecting in our first -- in our schedule which will take us through about March.
So again Mike that -- the 5% that Tammy's talking about is the estimate for the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes very good.
No that's helpful.
And then my second question and this is either for Tammy you or even Gary.
When you look at your sort of -- the booking window for customers business and leisure historically you've been a lot shorter than the rest of the industry.
I think the rest of the industry I think it's 330 days plus or minus a few.
You've historically been I don't know 180 maybe you've topped it to that 200 210.
As you move into the newer systems you move on to the Amadeus Altéa system and as you start flying international where people tend to book those especially on the leisure front some of those tickets are booked much further in advance.
A trip to Jamaica or even down the road if you decide to fly to Hawaii those are bigger decisions and they tend to have longer lead times.
Do we start to see your booking period extend? Is that in the offing? Would that be part of moving on to this new Amadeus system? Your thoughts on that.
I think there's 2 -- really 2 aspects to answering your question.
One is just customer behavior.
And you're right even if we don't change our 180-day -- and your rule of thumb there is right it's about 6 months out.
Even if we don't change that I suspect that we'll start seeing more bookings out farther on our booking curve.
Secondly with the new reservation system that we're working on that won't be in place for 2015.
And we haven't given a timeline for that yet Tammy I don't think.
We have not.
So really we'll be -- we don't want to change our current reservation system capabilities it's not worth it.
So it will be a year or more before we'll have the capabilities to realistically extend the bookings.
I think there's more to it than just adding the reservation system capability.
That's a long time to put a schedule out.
And as you know the rest of the industry goes in and makes changes to it.
And we typically have not done that.
So that would be somewhat of a policy/procedure change that we would need to think through as well.
So we agree with everything you said that as we go longer and go more international that there will probably be more demand for bookings further out.
And that's something that we'll have the capabilities in the future to choose to do or not.
But at this point I don't think we've made a firm commitment one way or the other.
And we'll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> How much of your cost advantage do you attribute to having a single fleet type now that you've acquired and in the process of divesting 717s? Hunter this is -- we know that we have a significant advantage just from a single fleet type.
And I guess from the 717s really the benefit of transitioning from 717s to -- back to a 737 fleet is pretty significant.
Now of course a lot of that is just driven by just the more fuel-efficient 737 fleet.
So probably the best gauge I can give you if your question is on really the 717s versus the 737 are really just the benefits that we provided in our fleet modernization efforts which is the EBIT.
We're expecting that to be in $500 million range here for this year.
But clearly we have the -- we have a clear advantage relative to the rest of the industry.
And certainly a single fleet type is a large -- is a contributor to that.
And our advantage is I think Hunter relative to the legacy carriers our cost advantage is probably 30% to 35%.
So I don't have a specific figure to give you here off the top of my head but certainly it is a -- it's a notable contributor to our low-cost advantage.
LLC</strong> Okay Tammy.
And as you think about the -- obviously a longer stage length next year and [indiscernible] to give ASM guidance on known seat count guidance and as we think about the increased popularity of the Rapid Rewards program are you getting pressure from some of your better customers to improve the number of redemption markets and -- one of those being Hawaii? And I know you guys talked about expanding into Hawaii your analysts think it was a couple of years ago almost at this point.
But how has that thought process evolved? And are the -800s coming ETOPS certified that will enable that to take place next year? Well I'm not sure until we follow on your question.
So with the Southwest route network we don't have any restrictions anywhere.
And there are -- every seat every flight every -- obviously every destination has access online.
And then you've got the opportunity to buy seats offline with our Rapid Rewards program.
I think our programs are fantastic.
It's the -- by all measures it is better than the other program.
We've got record levels of membership and all the things that I know you know.
So in terms of people being dissatisfied with how they can you use their rewards on the Southwest system no we don't get that at all.
If we ever do choose to serve Hawaii I'm sure they'll be delighted to have that.
But in the meantime they've got some wonderful Southwest destinations which Hunter one way or the other they're going to continue to get more attractive as we expand beyond the 48 states.
Mike Van De Ven does have some of the -800s equipped with ETOPS.
We have work to do to fly to Hawaii which I doubt we'll be able to keep a secret.
So you'll know when we've made that commitment when we decide that.
And it will take us not years from start to finish but it'll take us some time to actually activate that.
Hawaii is 1 of 50 potential destinations that we now have created.
And it'll just have to compete priority-wise with the other great opportunities that we have.
So I've realize your question wasn't specifically about Hawaii.
The only thing that I noticed Tammy looking at the utilization of the awards which was interesting to me is that the growth we've seen in the award usage over the past 5-plus years is actually taking place more in short-haul markets.
And in the old days our program was oriented towards rewarding people for flying short and then they would use the award to fly long.
So interestingly enough the growth in utilization is actually more in the short-haul markets.
But I don't think we've got any complaints whatsoever at this point with our new program.
It's working very well.
And we'll take our next question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Gary I just wanted to follow-up on the last thing that you just said 50 potential destinations out there that you've created.
Can you just kind of walk us through the process here for how you're thinking about growth going forward? We've heard other low-cost carriers sort of talk about the rising price umbrella creating a lot of new growth opportunities.
I'm just curious sort of big picture how you arrive at that number and certainly sounds like you're now prospecting for new markets.
Well we've been working on this John for years so there's no surprise with where we are.
I think it is simply counting dots that have simply been created by adding the 737-800 and international capabilities also propelled by the AirTran acquisition that makes these potential destinations available to us.
They were not available to us in 2010 was the main point I was trying to illustrate.
We won't go add 50 dots to the route map next year.
The 50 as I'm describing it to you they are all beyond the 48 states.
So there's nothing new.
It's Hawaii Alaska Canada the Caribbean Mexico Central America and the northern part of South America.
Those are all within the performance capabilities of the 737.
And they all at least look sufficiently attractive when it comes to the traffic potential and filling up the 737.
So it's a wonderful place to be and whether we'll ultimately serve all 50 destinations is not guaranteed or committed to.
It's just the fact that those are opportunities there's a number of them and we'll have to prioritize according to fundamentally what's the next best opportunity for traffic and revenue and profits.
It'll be a little complicated by the fact that in some cases we'll need to add capabilities to the aircraft like ETOPS.
So that has to be factored in.
Or in the case of Mexico in particular you have to apply for route authorities and then we'll have to do that on a strategic and the tactical basis as well.
But it's a nice -- as I said in my remarks it's a wonderful thing and it's just nice to be able to have a number of opportunities to choose from.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
I had understood it's 50 in general but it sounds like you're specifically talking about international opportunities because of the changing capability.
Well and it -- that's just the way our domestic route map has developed.
After the AirTran acquisition we added 17 more domestic destinations to the Southwest route map.
And as you look at the route map we cover the top 50 with one exception.
So the -- we know and you know that our opportunities to add dots or destinations in the 48 states is rather limited.
So absolutely the opportunities to grow in terms of destinations is beyond the 48 states.
Now let me quickly clarify that there are numerous opportunities to grow within the 48 states among the destinations that we currently serve connecting dots additional frequencies Wright Amendment and -- or well rather Dallas Love Field and Washington Reagan being 2 prominent and easy examples there.
But additional thoughts will be beyond the 48 states most likely.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And that's a good segue to my second question which is I understand sort of the difficulty in talking about ASM growth rates overall when you have so many different moving parts in international growth and so on and so forth.
But domestically over the next few years what's the right framework for thinking about capacity growth or your willingness to add capacity growth? I think it's to be determined.
I think that we have a real high class problem which is we have far more places that we would like to serve than we'll have airplanes and we'll make those judgments tactically based on again the inputs that I've described to you.
But we'll -- one would assume that if we have mature markets that have growth opportunities that that would probably compete for a top priority spot.
But again there's no reason for us to make that commitment at this point.
And we'll just have to manage this in a very measured way year-to-year and with the annual objectives in mind of running a great operation offering outstanding customer service and hitting our return on invested capital target.
And those are going to be the guidepost in determining how we grow and how fast we grow.
Research Division</strong> And do you think about that ROIC target for growth differently for international versus domestic given just different risks? Well I think yes.
I mean in other words every opportunity is going to have to meet the 15% threshold and if the risks are higher well then they'll have to be factored in.
And we'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Cowen and Company.
Research Division</strong> Just on the 717 transition so what will salaries and training costs look like after this year? And maybe percent change or what percent is from this year's related to the training and so on to move those pilots from the 717s to the 737s? Helane yes after -- I think it's really after this year.
I think we may have some training costs that dribble into next year but it shouldn't be all that significant.
And in terms of just the step-up in the wage rate as we bring our AirTran employees convert them over to Southwest employees really all that's remaining there are the of course the crews.
And -- but that's all been factored into the guidance that we've given you.
So really all the employees are already Southwest employees with the exception of the pilots and flight attendants that we need over on the AirTran side until we bring that flying over to Southwest.
Helane I probably won't add anything to what Tammy has already said but just for a little color and this is a huge shout out to all of our folks in our training departments flight operations and then all of the rest of our operating groups they're doing a phenomenal job.
We have record training events occurring in 2014.
So in other words in the first half costs that you already have seen we have an unusually large amount of training underway.
And that will continue through the balance of this year.
And I agree with Tammy by the time you get into 2015 we'll be back more to normal although I think Mike [ph] there's probably some front end maybe 2 months of 2015 where we'll have heavy training events.
But the other point to make here is that you have a lot of aircraft and a lot of employees "out of service" in 2014 and we're still producing strong results.
Well those airplanes effectively come back into service next year as they get through the conversion.
And then our employees as they get through all the big gulp training that's taking place in 2014 they'll be more productive next year as well.
You'll have more -- you'll have a higher percentage of employees at the Southwest pay scale next year so that will create some inflation.
And I'll just refer to Tammy on that.
Yes.
Helane only other point I just wanted to make on the training if you're working on your model there just as a reminder those training costs are included in the integration costs.
And as we said in the earnings release we're expecting that total cost to be about $550 million.
Training is just one component of that of course.
So that's where the training costs at least are showing up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the 8% kind of numbers we're looking at in salaries is kind of a true number and doesn't have any of those events in it? That is correct.
It does include -- as we're converting the AirTran employees over to Southwest it includes that step up but it does not include the training costs.
Those are included in the integration costs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my follow-up question on an unrelated item.
I think you said you opened the schedule and are now starting to take bookings for the Wright Amendment sign yes with 88 days to go.
Early days here I know but is there -- can you give us some color on how that's booking and what you're seeing in terms of I don't know picking up passengers that may be going on -- that may have been avoiding you not going on a one-stop basis over some of your other cities? They look really -- they look very normal they look very solid.
And that's just within the context that the outlook looks real strong.
So it all looks good.
I think Tammy mentioned in her comments just the second quarter performance of the "Wright Amendment markets " and we saw a very strong increase already and I suppose a lot of it's just the awareness that's been created about the restrictions coming down and the publishing of the new schedule.
But yes I think we had a 21% increase in the Wright Amendment revenue oriented around Dallas obviously in the second quarter.
So -- but yes those markets all look good.
There's 15 new nonstop destinations that we'll launch in -- October 13th to early November and we can't wait.
And we'll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just continuing on Helane's question there but specific to fleet.
As you think about lower utilization transitioning aircraft to Delta and from AirTran to Southwest can you quantify what the headwind to CASM is this year as it relates to fleet transition and lower utilization? Duane I'm just thinking here with you.
We would be impacted some on the utilization.
I don't know that I can pinpoint a specific number for you as we move forward.
But we should see as we get all of the flying over to Southwest obviously an improvement in the utilization which is also driving some of the ASM improvement or the ASM increase that I mentioned for the first quarter.
I'm just trying to think through and reconcile with you what that number might be but...
Research Division</strong> It just feels like it's a -- it's probably a material component of your CASM growth...
Yes I think to your point...
Research Division</strong> May not recur right? Yes.
And to your point we definitely have opportunities as we look ahead to 2015 to be more efficient with our fleet.
And as you can imagine with the conversion of all the markets in 2014 just from a staffing perspective as well we're not -- we're clearly not as efficient as we could be going forward as well once we have just more stability in our network.
So we haven't given unit cost guidance for next year but as you can see this year we're certainly benefiting from the increased gauge and I would expect in 2015 that we would also get some benefit from just the overall improvement in utilization.
But we're still working through our plan and our schedule and all the details for next year.
And it will give you a better guidance on that as we get a little bit later in the year and have a little more certainty on our schedule for 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one for Gary.
I mean when you hit this target which we've been pointing to for years and you finally realize it this year what do you do? Do you raise it? I mean what happens when you hit a sort of long-standing aspirational target? Well I think Duane we do what I said we're going to do which is we're going to take up every year and have a goal to run an excellent reliable operation provide outstanding customer service and have a business and a plan that continues to have consistent profitability achieving at least a 15% pretax return on invested capital.
We've got opportunities to grow the network both domestically and internationally as we've described.
And we'll want to manage that growth very very carefully so that we sustain all 3 of those performance levels.
But we want our return on invested capital to continue to be at least 15% with 15% as the floor.
And we'll take our next question from Joe DeNardi with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Tammy maybe going back to the Rapid Rewards program kind of in the context of how successful you view that being for you guys can you just talk a little bit about the growth in the frequent flier liability there? And it's growing at a rate a little bit faster than your peers.
I mean is the plan to manage that a little bit more aggressively in the future? Or are you okay with the growth you're seeing? Well we -- we're constantly evaluating the -- our Rapid Rewards program.
And just as a reminder we did recently increase the coefficient for using a Rapid Rewards flight.
And so that's at least keeping the usage in line with what we -- with what our more recent trends have been.
But as Gary stated earlier we've been extremely happy with the Rapid Rewards program.
And the -- let's see the benefits -- the second quarter impact related to our Rapid Rewards program is probably roughly $95 million on a year-over-year basis $95 million.
So we're seeing probably a 40% to 50% increase in our revenue year-over-year.
So we're delighted with how that's performing.
But to your point we've obviously got to keep an eye on the liability where we're monitoring the usage.
But the overall economics we're very happy with.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Quick clarification.
The cost guidance doesn't contain any accruals correct Tammy? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And more broadly speaking and I'm not asking you to negotiate in public here.
I'm just curious if there's been any change in the tone of negotiations in light of your very impressive recent results.
Negotiations continue.
We've got negotiations with a number of workgroups.
And the pace and understandably the texture of those negotiations is different by workgroup.
So it obviously puts the company in a position where it can afford to do certain things.
But the main thing that we need to do is to preserve Southwest Airlines' low fare brand and low-cost position competitively.
And it doesn't change the need to do that.
Our competition is stronger today than it has been in a long time.
And so we'll -- that hasn't changed Jamie and therefore it's a great rallying cry for all of our people to work together to beat all of our competitors so that's -- that work continues.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay I appreciate that.
And secondly I know you don't guide on fuel efficiency but with the amplification 717s going out 73 is coming in longer stage lengths I personally could use an assist.
I mean for 2015 would you expect ASMs per gallon to exceed 74? Or is something in the 73 range more likely? We've got -- and I'll let Tammy think about that while I just make one quick comment here.
And we -- and Jamie I think we can do that.
Now we have tried to -- or at least our Investor Relations effort here has tried to give you some guidance with the fleet modernization benefits which I think Tammy are largely fuel efficiency.
That's correct.
So you do have that.
But you're right.
It hasn't equated precisely to the consumption number.
So -- but yes we're already realizing significant benefits from the fleet modernization/fuel efficiency.
Of course the fleet modernization with an upgauging benefit as an example has -- as you well know has benefits beyond just fuel burn.
But anyway let me -- do you have a...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I would definitely agree with that conclusion.
I mean you've punched nicely north of 72 as of the fourth quarter of last year.
I think directionally you're in the ballpark Jamie.
I had sort of a 73 in mind.
But I think we'll continue to see improvement as we go for all the obvious reasons as we continue to replace the 717s and the classic aircraft with more fuel-efficient airplanes.
But we haven't given a number yet for the next year but I wouldn't be surprised to see it exceed 74.
And we'll take our last question from Thomas Kim Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I know your credit rating is very important to you and obviously having a strong balance sheet makes a lot of sense.
I'm just wondering whether you think your balance sheet is bordering too conservative at this stage with cash and short-term investments hovering north of about 200% of consensus revenue estimates for the year.
Well obviously maintaining a healthy balance sheet obviously has always been a top priority for Southwest.
And we really do have a lot -- which really -- it's really a balancing act and we have a lot of guideposts.
Of course one of our goals for this year that we stated is to -- we have an investment grade balance sheet.
We would like to notch that up and so that's obviously one consideration.
But as Gary said earlier we have a lot of high-class problems.
Our questions on our hands is -- so really our overall goal is to enhance shareholder value.
I think we'll need to balance our capital expenditures against our desire to continue to enhance capital through our shareholder deployment.
So I think -- and I think the other guidepost I would just point you to is just our cash balance it is $4 billion.
Our target is probably closer to $2.5 billion.
But keep in mind too there's some seasonality in that cash balance.
And we do have -- as I mentioned earlier we've got over $400 million in debt due later this year.
So of course with the peak second quarter we're kind of -- we've got higher cash balances and seasonally that's typically the case.
So that's just another factor.
So we're looking ahead at what our needs are and with the overall goal in mind to enhance shareholder value through either deploying capital back to our shareholders.
And also as Gary mentioned we want to continue to grow the airline.
Just trying to be real quick with you here.
I think if I just take your questions literally is it too conservative? I would say no it's not too conservative.
Is it too aggressive? No.
So is it the exact right spot? I don't know that I'm ready to answer that quite yet.
So we continue to -- as you know the rating agencies don't just look at leverage.
In fact interestingly enough they don't look at leverage much at all.
And that's the way we normally casually talk about it.
So there's other things that they look at and we'll want to continue to work with them in an effort to try to improve the credit rating.
I think that that would be better than being so close to junk.
On the other hand if trends continue for several years like they have been for the last couple that the balance sheet's going to continue to show less and less leverage.
And yes it is possible when it gets to a point where we think that it's "too conservative " but I don't feel that we're there right now.
And like Tammy said I think that's a high-class problem and something ultimately can be managed.
The only other thing that I think needs to be mentioned here is that we've lived through a brutal decade where every balance sheet in the industry was stressed and most went bankrupt.
So you just can't extrapolate 2014 into infinity.
And we do want to make sure that we err on this side financially of being conservative and being very well prepared for the unpredictable.
And the unpredictable's happened a lot to us in 43 years.
But again it's not say that we're worried.
We're not.
We're feeling very confident very good and very pleased with this quarter and very pleased with our outlook.
Research Division</strong> I definitely appreciate all of that.
If I could just ask a separate question Gary on your international expansion.
Can you help us understand your thought process behind building depth versus breadth in your network? And then sort of a separate question related to the international side.
Obviously we appreciate that your fleet will have much longer range.
But I'm curious as to how your unit cost advantage or competitiveness changes when you start competing against your network peers that are going to be flying larger gauge fleet.
Excellent questions and questions that again sort of put in that high-class problem category.
Well we're going to have to choose and I suppose that the choices will from time -- from one decision point to the next will probably have different priorities things will just change.
We want to do both.
We certainly want to increase the diversity and the breadth of our route system.
But we have opportunities that we haven't seen in quite some time to also improve the depth in a lot of our markets.
And those are the exact conversations and debates that our commercial experts are having right now.
I'd rather not tip our hand as to exactly what we might do.
But again just to put it in perspective for everyone international right now is 1% of Southwest route system.
So it is a very very small component and it's going to be small for a long time.
So I think that may very well help direct us in the future as to how we think about additional flights from one schedule to the next.
But 50 dots on the route map obviously is a great opportunity to increase the breadth.
And again all this has to fit in with hitting our return requirements.
I think by definition increasing the depth one would think would be less risk as opposed to increasing the size of the route network.
So all that will have to be factored in as well.
So we've got a great opportunity to grow grow the earnings and continue as we grow the capital base along with the growth in earnings to hit our 15% minimum target.
And it's very exciting and we've got opportunities to do both.
So that's again a very high-quality problem.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate it's late in the call.
I mean do you care to comment on -- just a last question about unit cost competitiveness over the longer haul? Or is it just...
I'm sorry.
Yes I didn't skip it on purpose.
I'd forgotten to answer the question.
Well I think yes as you go longer it gives us less ability to bring our strength which is efficiency and turning airplanes.
It makes a little bit harder to bring that competitively to the market.
So that will have to be factored in.
I don't know that we are well prepared for "ultra long-haul flying".
But we feel we have a very solid cost advantage with the 737 and in the route network that we're envisioning to again North America and the northern part of South America.
So I think that that holds true at least with the analysis that we've done.
And that's been the case over a number of years.
We want to continue being the low-cost producer and work hard to achieve that position and then maintain it and certainly we want to be known as the low-fare brand and that we're going to work hard to sustain that as well.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Tom.
And thanks again to everyone for joining our call today.
As always I'll be available this afternoon if you have any additional questions.
Thanks again.
.
Ladies and gentlemen we'll now begin our media portion of today's call.
I'd like to first introduce Ms.
Ginger Hardage Senior Vice President Culture and Communications.
Great.
Thank you Tom.
And we would like to welcome all the members of the news media who might have questions for Tammy and Gary.
So I think Tom's going to give instructions and we'll get that started.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now begin with our first question from Mike Sasso with Bloomberg News.
I noticed that you announced earlier that you're going to purchase 17 preowned 737s.
I noted as I was on the call earlier with United folks and they announced a kind of a new strategy for them to buy used and certainly Delta is kind of well-known for pursuing that strategy.
I wonder if you could just talk about used planes and -- as a strategy and kind of what's going on with that? Well sure.
We -- for us it's not new either.
I think we used the preowned market historically for more tactical growth opportunities.
And we were very active in the 1990s in particular going out into the used market finding good airplanes and have the capability of quickly converting them to the Southwest livery and putting them into revenue service.
That is a -- when the market is available that is a very good strategy.
And in particular it works well for us right now.
So what is unique for Southwest is that we're an all-737 carrier.
We are the launch customer for the 737 MAX which is coming online in 2017.
And it -- all the indications are it will be a vastly superior aircraft from an economic perspective.
So if our Chief Operating Officer had is druthers he'd rather be getting those airplanes new right now as opposed to the current generation.
So a wonderful way to bridge the gap is to go into the used market rather than buying the current generation new from Boeing understanding that we'll be using them for a shorter period of time but that just means that we'll get the 737 MAX that much faster again compared to buying an airplane here in 2014 and keeping it for 30 years.
That all works great that's a great strategy but the airplanes have to be available.
And it just so happens that there are a lot of 737-700s on the used markets at attractive prices that are available.
If they are not then I'm sure we wouldn't continue to pursue that strategy.
So everything has to come together.
We love the 737-700 which is the NG product.
That's what Mike is picking up and economics are fantastic so I think that works very well.
So it's not necessarily a new strategy for us.
The circumstances are different this time that caused us to pursue that.
But it definitely helps us manage our capital spending at a time where we would like to not only replace retiring equipment but also begin to pick up new units to grow.
So all way around I think it's a great strategy and something that's working very well for us.
And so a quick follow-up.
You said there are a lot of 737-700s on the market.
Why is that right now? Mike you want to speak to that? Yes Mike it's just a function of them rolling off lessors' order leasing books.
So they typically lease the airplane out anywhere from 8 10 12 up to 20 years.
And they roll into the marketplace and we just have a bow [ph] wave of them rolling in the market place over the next couple of years.
And we're the largest 737-700 operator in the world and it's an airplane that we really like.
And it could be that other airlines are pursuing other aircraft types.
It's often hard to know but we like that airplane and for whatever reasons there's a lot of them.
And that was Mike Van De Ven our COO by the way that was answering that question.
And just one thing to add.
The lessors love to lease the Southwest Airlines because we do have a very strong balance sheet.
Yes you heard the question earlier about our credit rating and Tammy makes an outstanding point.
Yes which we are a preferred customer for anybody who wants to get paid.
That is correct.
And we'll take our next question from Doug Cameron with The Wall Street Journal.
This is one for Gary or maybe Ron.
Going back to the international expansion guys I see you've been sort of active in some DOT dockets with regard to potential Mexico flights which kind of makes me think I wonder if any of the international expansion in that region is kind of dependent on any regulatory changes be it either bilateral or whether there's kind of plentiful opportunities for you with the status quo as far as current air service agreements are concerned.
Ron Ricks our EVP and Chief Regulatory and Legal Officer will step up to the microphone here.
I think the only new development there that might merit some attention is that the United States and Mexico are discussing a new bilateral.
And what we're hearing is that for the first time in quite some time -- by the way I don't think the treaty between the 2 countries has been renegotiated since the early 1960s.
But for the first time since then Mexico is interested in liberalizing that treaty liberalizing this context meaning more opportunities for more flights by U.S.
carriers.
That is a goal that we support and it's something we're urging the United States government to pursue in the negotiations in hopes that we can achieve a new bilateral sooner rather than later which means expanded opportunities for us.
[Indiscernible] there are only 2 or 3 designations.
Now Ron you're confident you could get one of those if and when you decide to fly from Hobby or any other points? There are a number -- if I understand your question there are a number of routes that we're interested in pursuing over the short-term and there are opportunities.
But the point of the new bilateral negotiations is to expand that list more and -- so that we can have more opportunity.
But I think regardless of whether there's a new treaty or not to Gary's earlier commentary there are plenty of opportunities for us again a high-class problem.
There are lots of places we can go so we don't think we'll be route-restricted if that's a concern.
But on the other hand Mexico is a very attractive place for us to fly our existing route structure in the demographics of the United States today.
And if there are more opportunities in Mexico then I'm sure Mr.
Andrew Watterson and his team and our network planning group would be happy to pursue them.
And Doug the other thing -- so Ron is acknowledging -- we're acknowledging that there may be some city pair routes that we can't get the route authority to fly.
We know that.
But the thing that is different about Southwest Airlines is we have dozens of cities that we have point-to-point networks that originate from.
So we have routes into Mexico right now from Orange County California; Austin Texas; San Antonio Texas as an example.
So we -- Houston may not be open to us to certain Mexican cities but I'll bet we can find other spots on the Southwest system that are.
But in any event we have 50 potential beyond 48 state destinations.
And if we can't go one place we'll have ample opportunities to go somewhere else.
And as a practical matter we simply cannot satisfy all the growth opportunities at the same time anyway.
So it will help prioritize if we're restricted.
But clearly we're in support.
And Ron made this clear we're in support of liberalizing the bilateral agreement between the United States and Mexico and that will bring more competition.
That will lower fares it will be better for consumers.
So it's not just about us selfishly.
It's really what's good for consumers.
Our question comes from David Koenig with the Associated Press.
I will make it easy an easy one here.
Gary I know that -- I see that the release does talk about a 3% present [ph] gain expected in July over last July.
Anything else you can say about demand in the third quarter and bookings? And part of that is how soon do you expect it's going to be into everybody starts dumping a bunch of extra capacity into the system? Well I think that capacity -- just go backwards with your question.
I think the supply side of this is generally a longer cycle.
So I mean if you just look at us if we wanted to add more flights next month we just -- we couldn't do it.
That's a fairly long lead time that's required to require equipment hire and train employees et cetera.
So right now the demand is very strong and it is balanced very nicely with the supply of seats.
We're going to manage our growth very carefully so that we don't upset that balance for Southwest Airlines.
And what the rest of the industry does of course I can't speak to.
I think David the bigger risk personally is the economy and fuel prices.
With all the turmoil there is in the Middle East things could change quite rapidly and I'm much more concerned about that.
The demand side things if you will are continuing to be stable and strong as opposed to a radical change in the supply side anytime soon.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Hardage for any additional or closing remarks.
Well great.
Thank you so much for your interest today.
We know there's a lot of news going on in the industry but thank you for tuning into us.
If you have any additional questions our communications team that number is (214) 792-4847.
Thank you so much.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's call.
Thank you for joining.
Good day and welcome to the Southwest Airlines Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I’ll be moderating today’s call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on the southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Tom good morning everyone and welcome to today’s call to discuss our third quarter results.
Joining me on the call is Gary Kelly our Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President Chief Commercial Officer and President of AirTran Airways.
We will begin with opening remarks from Gary followed by Tammy providing a review of our results and our current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy’s remarks.
Please be advised that today’s call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the company’s current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please refer to this morning’s press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thank you Marcy and welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2014 earnings call.
I know it’s a busy day for you all and glad you all can join us.
I’m very pleased with our financial results.
I’m very proud of our people especially.
Third quarter is a very busy season.
Our people work hard every single day to sever our customers with safe reliable friendly and low-cost air travel and sometimes under very challenging circumstances.
So these results really were a testament to their very hard work.
The transformative changes with a new rapid rewards program the acquisition and integration of AirTran the addition of the 737-800 model and our fleet modernization program have also been very hard work.
And again my profound things to our people for working through those changes so magnificently and the stellar results of course are very obvious.
One historic milestone achieved in third quarter was the launch of international service on July 1st.
We talked about that in the second quarter earnings call in late July.
And I’ll just say again it was flawless.
I’m very proud of our people again for their hard work in what is a very exciting achievement.
The customer and operational aspects of our international launch have been stellar.
From a business or commercial perspective our international results are in line with our expectations.
I will admit to you all they are a drag on our results.
Right now we’ve got some work to do.
And accordingly our international footprint is quite modest.
It’s about 1% of our capacity.
And also just we’d remind everyone that our growth plans in 2015 for international are modest as well.
So we plan to manage our near-term – our near international expansion very carefully and very closely but again that said we’re pleased with current status.
We plan to open Costa Rica in March as well as a handful of other destinations next year all with low frequency.
Another historic third quarter event was the unveiling of our new Heart livery along with our new Heart branding and logo the same Heart but a new look.
It’s a tribute to our employees who are the best in the business.
It signifies that as of 2014 Southwest has exciting new capabilities and exciting new opportunities and unlike the Southwest before.
In typical Southwest fashion we’ll rollout the refresh livery and branding in a cost neutral manner during the normal maintenance cycle or out of our discretionary marketing budget.
Since the end of the quarter the long anticipated repeal of the Wright Amendment happened the long anticipated Southwest effect happened too.
And on October 13 we added seven new non-stop destinations 22 more daily departures to Dallas Love Field that was the largest single day expansion in our history.
And load factors so far have been in excess of 90% on these 22 new flights.
So I’m going to talk to Bob Jordan about the few empty seats that he has later.
Eight more destinations are coming November 2nd and I expect that they will do equally well.
Also in November we will finish adding flights using the DCA slots that we bought from American Airlines.
We began adding service to DCA with the new slots back in August where we went from 17 daily departures with seven non-stop destinations up to in November we’ll be 44 daily departures and double the destinations or 14.
And I’d just remind everybody that’s not a net capacity increase to the industry; it is obviously a significant capacity increase for Southwest.
And I expect that we’re going to do quite well there as well.
So no surprise those two city initiatives will drive our year-over-year capacity growth in fourth quarter and in 2015 our international growth will be very modest especially considering that Houston doesn’t open until late next year.
And finally before I turn it over to Tammy I wanted to thank the IAM leadership for the tentative agreement that was announced yesterday and especially I want to congratulate our customer service and consumer support and services employees who represented by the IAM.
I’m delighted for them.
I’m very pleased that we can reward our people even more for their hard work and also that they can share in the success now of a record year along with our non-contract frontline and supervisory employees.
So of course the TA is subject to ratification by the IAM membership and I hope that there will be more TAs that will follow quickly.
With that very brief overview I would like to turn it over to Tammy Romo who will take us through the financial results of the third quarter.
All right thank you Gary and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
We are very pleased to report another terrific quarter this morning again breaking many records.
Net income excluding special items was a record $382 million or $0.55 per share which increased approximately 60% over last year.
Our third quarter GAAP net income was also a record $329 million.
Operating income was also a third quarter record at $649 million and we expanded our operating margin by almost 400 basis points to 13.5%.
Our pre-tax to return on invested capital for the twelve months ended September 30was 19% which on an after-tax basis was 12% well exceeding our weighted average cost of capital.
These strong results were driven by record revenues lower fuel prices our ongoing cost control efforts and represents our sixth consecutive quarter on record profitability.
For the nine months ended September 30 our profits have resulted in $256 million in profit sharing expense which already exceeds full-year 2013’s contribution to the plans.
This is a tremendous accomplishment by our people and I congratulate and thank them for their hard work.
Our third quarter revenues reached record levels increasing 5.6% year-over-year to $4.8 billion driven largely by record passenger revenues of $4.6 billion.
Strong demand for travel resulted in record traffic and load factors despite 4% fewer trips and 2% fewer seats flown year-over-year.
We also had a double-digit growth in corporate sales and our strong initiatives continue to significantly contribute to strong revenue momentum.
On a unit basis total operating revenues increased 4.5% compared to third quarter last year on a 1% increase in available seat miles.
Passenger unit revenues increased almost 5% compared to third quarter last year with strong unit revenue improvement each month of the quarter.
As we’ve previously discussed our markets under development is significantly higher than historical levels as we worked to complete the integration of AirTran.
In the third quarter we had approximately 15% of our third quarter available seat miles under development.
Our international markets as Gary commented on continued to offset ramp up nicely and are performing in line with our expectations.
As we move into fourth quarter the demand environment remains solid and strong revenue trends revenue trends have continued.
We have not seen any noticeable negative impact on demand from Ebola or macroeconomic news.
And based on our current bookings and revenue trends we expect October PRASM to up roughly 2% year-over-year.
Bookings for November and December are also good.
Looking ahead we expect unit revenue trends to be choppy through the remainder of the quarter due to last year’s comparisons.
December’s in particular would be difficult given last year’s as strong increase.
In particular Thanksgiving at Monday return traffic will benefit November this year as opposed to December last year.
Moving to freight and other revenues our freight revenues grew nearly 10% year-over-year as we continued to expand cargo service and with the integration of our AirTran network.
And we currently expect fourth quarter freight revenues to be comparable to third quarter 2014.
Other revenues decreased at 3.5% year-over-year are largely due to AirTran fees continuing to decline with the transition of the AirTran network over to Southwest.
EarlyBird revenue performance continues to be strong and were $59 million in the quarter.
And other ancillary revenues were also $48 million.
We currently expect fourth quarter 2014 other revenues to decrease year-over-year likely at a greater year-over-year rate than we experienced in the third quarter due to the ongoing conversion of the AirTran network.
Turning now to costs we had a solid cost performance.
Our third quarter unit costs excluding a special items for comparable on a year-over-year basis.
And we’re continuing to benefit as Gary mentioned from our fleet modernization and other cost control efforts as well as lower fuel costs.
Our third quarter economic jet fuel price per gallon declined 3.9% year-over-year to $2.94 which reflect a $0.05 hedging gain.
Fuel prices have plunged even further here in October reaching levels we haven’t seen for four years primarily driven by heavy oversupply crude based on our hedge position and market prices and as of Friday we expect our fourth quarter fuel price per gallon to be in the $2.70 and $2.75 range.
This is right in line with un-hedged prices and significantly below fourth quarter last year’s $3 05 per gallon.
Excluding special items and fuel and oil expense our unit costs increased 2.6% year-over-year largely driven by the 45% increase in profit sharing which of course we like to see.
Excluding profit sharing and special items our non-fuel unit costs increased 1.5% year-over-year as expected.
Based on current cost trends we expect fourth quarter and full year 2014 unit costs excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to increase year-over-year in the 2% range.
And this guidance contemplates the ratification of the tentative agreement that was announced yesterday with our customer service agents and customer representatives.
Moving to our strong balance sheet and cash flow we ended third quarter 2014 with $3.6 billion in cash and short-term investments.
As a result of our strong free cash flow generation of $1.4 billion this year we have returned $893 million to our shareholders through the repurchase of $755 million of stocks and the distribution of $138 million in dividends.
Over the past three years we have returned a meaningful $2.1 billion to our shareholders.
In third quarter we’ve repurchased $200 million in shares under an accelerated stock repurchase programs and distributed $41 million in dividend payments.
We have $580 million remaining under our $1 billion share repurchase authorization.
Thus far this year we have also made $517 million in debt payments including $48 million paid during the quarter and an additional $315 million made in early October.
We intend to repay an additional $40 million in scheduled debt and capital lease payments in the reminder of this year.
Our leverage including off-balance sheet aircraft leases was 36% as of September 30 and we continue to prudently manage our CapEx spend.
Our 2014 capital spending forecast remains at $1.8 billion and we currently expect our 2015 CapEx to be less than this year’s spend.
And that brings me to the fleet.
I’ll refer you to our press release for our third quarter activity but here is a quick recap of our full-year 2014 fleet plans.
We plan to take delivery of 33 - 800s from Boeing and 23 pre-owned – 700s.
On the retirement side we have retired three classics thus far this year and currently plan to retire our three more by the end of the year for a total of six retirements this year.
We have removed 51 of the AirTran 717s from service.
The remaining 37 will be removed from service by the end of this year.
As of the end of the third quarter we have transitioned 45 717s to Delta and currently plan to transition 7 more this year.
In addition thus far we have transitioned 34 of the 52 AirTran-700s to Southwest which leaves 18-700 aircraft remaining.
We continued to manage our fleet plans to a relatively flat fleet through the end of 2015 with a baseline of roughly 695 aircraft which was our combined fleet at the time of the AirTran acquisition.
We expect our fourth quarter 2014 ASMs to increase year-over-year in 2% to 3% range and full year 2014 ASMs to be less than 1% year-over-year.
To close we are thrilled with our third quarter results.
Our outstanding employees continue to give their very best and I would to like to congratulate them on another record quarterly performance.
The revenue momentum in the third quarter has continued thus far into fourth quarter.
Our cost control efforts are working as planned.
And we will continue to focus on maintaining our low-cost leadership position.
Our strategic initiatives have all come together quite well and puts us in a great position to take advantage of recent opportunities such as Dallas Love Field Washington Reagan National New York LaGuardia and our most recent announcement of our first international destination to Central America.
We are excited about our future and our financial position remains strong as ever allowing us to deliver on our plans to aggressively manage our invested capital and return strong returns and significant value to our shareholders.
And with that we’re ready to take questions.
Thank you.
We are now beginning with our first question I’m sorry the question-and answer session will be conducted electronically.
(Operator Instructions) And thank you for waiting.
We will now begin with our first question from Hunter Kaey with Wolf Research.
Hi thank you everybody.
How are you? Looks good.
Good.
Have you seen any improvements or an improved ability to revenue manage after changing the no-show policy? I know it’s a small percentage of your customers that are impacted by that but in those specific markets or those specific customers that were impacted by it maybe it was more magnified in certain business markets at certain times of day or something like that.
Have you found an improved ability to manage yields around tightening of the restrictions a little bit?  Well it’s probably a little early to tell.
I think it’s probably nuanced.
It’s definitely helped us to identify empty seats and we’re having one or things to happen either the cancellations are happening in advance where we can resell the seats or that money is being forfeited.
So it’s sort of the worst to both worlds would be if the customer cancelled at a very last minute where we can’t do anything about it and we go ahead and get the money back but the revenue management over – Hunter I can’t recall how you’ve been following us or the industry but if you go back 30 years we had over bookings that was substantially higher than what we have today.
Today the bookings that we would take for departure are very close to the number of seats that we have.
So I can’t honestly say that we’ve seen with precision any additional improvement on that there is bound to be some in there but it will probably take us a little bit more time to see that.
But the benefits are there the revenue management right now is already very good in terms of the bookings versus the book load factor.
This obviously will help but I guess to give you an honest answer I don’t know that I’ve seen anything any evidence of that so far.
Tammy have you?  The only thing I would add Gary is that we could see a nice benefit here just on the no show here in the third quarter it was about close to $25 million here in the third quarter but it is meaningful.
Yes it’s meaningful.
That’s more than what we get from our upgraded boarding product on a quarterly basis as a reference point.
Yes.
That’s interesting.
I’ve not been covering you for 30 years but I think maybe Jamie Baker has that...
I don’t think you’re that older are you?  I don’t.
Believe it or not I am over 30 but that’s nice of you.
So one other question on labor Gary.
Can you tell me what is important to you with a new pilot deal? And I am not asking you where you guys are far apart or where you’re close together.
That’s a completely different question.
But what’s important to you Gary as you sit down and negotiate with labor? Is it more healthcare contribution? Is it productivity? Can you talk to me about what you value out of the next CBA from the pilots?  Well I wouldn’t saying were pilots.
We’re…  Of course not but I’m just referring to the pilots.
With a number of workgroups and all of them are important.
I think the themes are consistent across which is Southwest has a very rich history very meaningful purpose and we want to sustain that for the next generation.
And that is we want to offer our customers great service at a low cost.
And that’s what I want to work together with our union leaders to make sure that we sustain going forward.
As you well know we have more low cost competition today than ever before in our history and we can’t claim the lowest cost although we are really close we still can’t that.
And I think that’s something that we need to continue to strive for.
So that’s number one that is an important objective because taking care of Southwest Airline and sustaining our brand really is taking care of our people.
So to further taking care of our people we have some wonderful opportunities where we can reward them further just like I described with the tentative agreement we have with the IAM.
That’s what we want to achieve with these one of our work groups do more for our people and find ways to strengthen Southwest Airlines by eliminating waste improving our productivity improving our efficiencies.
And the nice thing is there are opportunities in every single work group to do to.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question form Savi Syth with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Hey good morning.
What percentage of routes are under development if you exclude the AirTran routes you are taking over? I don’t know if I can do that.
The way we think about the percentage of routes in development I would say it’s about 15%.
And I know Bob Jordan and his team have plans – already committed plans from next year to grow that further.
I think we get close to 20% don’t we Bob? Yes we do.
So that’s more than we’d like but it is directly tied to the AirTran acquisition and integration.
In other words absent that we wouldn’t have anywhere near that number of new markets as a component of our system.
So I don’t know that I can really piece it apart.
Bob do you have a different way of thinking about that.
No.
The other thing that I think is important to point out is we are counting everything new is new.
So if you look at Love Field even though we served these long-haul destinations through connections now that we have new non-stops those are counted as new markets.
And when you think about that 15% grown to 20% as well.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And it takes a year or two for those to develop even though we do expect a market like Dallas to mature much faster.
So I would say where we are with the AirTran is probably split pretty even the AirTran markets that are being converted and in these new markets like DCA and Dallas.
And again we’ve tried to be as transparent with those as possible.
But even if you take a city like Flint Michigan it was converted from AirTran to Southwest the routes that we fly – Memphis is probably the same example.
The routes we fly to those cities are entirely different than what AirTran was flying before.
There are some cases where we take a route that AirTran was flying change the sign and make it Southwest.
And one could imagine that that’s less risk than what I described with the Flint scenario but you’ve got every flavor of all that going on.
And I guess just finally just to wrap up the answer the AirTran route system or what was previously AirTran capacity converted to Southwest what that looks like today compared to when we bought AirTran is very different.
We’ve closed 18 AirTran cities.
We’ve opened 51 or converted – either opened or converted 51 of AirTran cities but you can just envision that that’s a pretty different route system today compared to where they were in 2011.
Inc.</strong> That’s helpful.
And just looking at 2015 I understand not a lot of the capacity is going to be international.
What level of capacity growth have you massaged that number more as we look at 2015 that you will be adding to the domestic market? We have and our focus will be on that question when we have our Investor Meeting next month.
Today we’re going to focus on the third and the fourth quarter of course but yes we’re working on finalizing our plans for 2015 as we speak.
Inc.</strong> I’ll wait for that then.
Maybe just since I didn’t get an answer to that may I ask? So once you do start flying out of Houston what could you grow your international capacity at? Well Bob and I were talking earlier this morning our initial launch out of Houston.
If you just look at – think about fourth quarter 2015 the capacity increased compared to fourth quarter 2014 assuming that Houston international is open all quarter will be very modest.
So we’ll have just a handful of flights.
It will not generate a significant amount of growth coming out of Houston international.
It sounds like 1% or less.
What is known is that the terminal will have five gates and it’s estimated that the capacity of the five gates will be 25 daily departures.
So I think it remains to be seen whether that’s the cap or whether we will be able to do more departures than that.
And we will have four of those five gates under lease.
So that at least gives you some idea what the potential is out of Houston.
Inc.</strong> All right.
Thank you very much.
We’ll take our next question from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hi thank you for taking my question.
Tammy when you pointed out the fuel volatility in a historical context I couldn’t help but remember maybe some of the problems that airlines found themselves in when they were hedging and they had to put up cash collateral.
I know that you have a lot of disclosures on this.
They’re a bit complicated but there are a bunch of disclosures in the K and the Q.
I was hoping that you could maybe boil it down to a simple thought.
Does the fuel volatility that we’ve seen to date create any cash collateral issues for you? Nothing that we really couldn’t manage we really shored up our any liquidity our risk with our aircraft collateral facility.
And we currently have the full $1.2 billion in aircraft collateral available should prices fall further.
At least so far the any cash collateral that we have had to post has been very manageable.
Got it.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
And then if we could talk a little bit about capital returns to shareholders.
You obviously have a great leverage ratio versus peers.
And a lot of airlines are now comping themselves to high quality industrials.
Perhaps you have been comped to that group much longer than others.
I just wonder when are we reaching a point where we can perhaps commit to the marketplace that the vast majority of incremental free cash flow would be used for shareholder returns buy backs or what have you? As you already said we really have led the industry in shareholder returns and certainly this year.
We’re very proud of what we have deployed back to our shareholders.
In terms of how we intend to deploy our capital going forward we’ll certainly touch on our 2015 plan when we meet with you all in a couple of weeks.
But certainly as the free cash flow levels that we have been enjoying and our very I think manageable CapEx are requirements.
Certainly our goal would be to continue to reward our shareholders through continued deployment of cash back to our shareholders.
The only thing that I would add is I think all I’m trying to do is respond to your desire to get more commitment from the company.
So I think the scenario would be as long as we are continuing to hit our return on invested capital minimum target and especially in an environment where earnings are growing.
The way that I would answer your question is through the dividend.
And I don’t think that our dividend is fully matured I think there are opportunities to grow it.
I am not in anyways suggesting that there is a commitment from us that we will grow it.
I am just saying that there are opportunities to consider that in the future.
And that is – that clearly is an opportunity for us and obviously you all have seen a very serious commitment by us to increase it over the past three years.
The share repurchases – I would just say by design and by definition are intended to give the company more flexibility and what’s going on in the world with fuel prices right now a perfect example of that.
The volatility is working in our direction.
One of these days the volatility won’t work in our direction.
So I think you understand that we have to make commitments wisely in this business.
And as a philosophy is there any reason why leverage needs to fall further? Leverage no not particularly.
We’re comfortable with where our leverage sits today.
We just actually on October 1st we repaid $350 million in debt and certainly we’re likely refinanced at least a portion of that at some point in the future.
And just one other note back to just Gary’s comment on the dividend – because we do get questions on that I just remind you that we have had very substantial increases in our dividends at our last two annual shareholder meetings.
And at the time we increased those dividends the yield was 1% to 1.2% so just wanted to remind you of that.
Yes the darn stocks gone up so much it dropped the yield… It’s a high-quality problem.
Thanks a lot.
And we’ll take our next question from Julie Yates with Credit Suisse.
LLC</strong> Good afternoon and thanks for taking my question.
ROXE continues to show very nice improvement.
Is there anything you can share on how you are thinking about a new target? Or is that something we should stay tuned for the investor day?  Yes we’ll dive into that.
We are working on our plan for next year as we speak and we’re looking forward to diving into that topic more when we meet here in a few weeks.
But again our target is at least 15% and we’ll talk to you more about next year’s plans when we meet.
And I would certainly echo 100% of what Tammy said.
We’re always interested to hear feedback from you all as to your views.
So we’re going to do more work between now and then and we’ve been giving it considerable thought.
I know you’ll be glad to hear this.
There is no thought that we would lower the target.
I think all we’re talking about is now since we’re in an environment where we are exceeding the minimum threshold can we give you all some more precise guidance there.
And we will be ready for that conversation in November.
And also just want to point out too obviously what we’re focused on when we’re setting our targets is our cost to capital clearly and our cost to capital has averaged between 7% to 8% for a long of period.
So certainly with a 19% return on invested capital we are well exceeding our cost to capital and I’m very pleased with that performance.
LLC</strong>  Yes.
Okay.
And then a clarification on the commentary.
Tammy Romo you said choppy revenue trends in the fourth quarter and I imagine you just mean because of the comps and the shift in the timing of Thanksgiving.
But I just wanted to clarify if there’s any other dynamics that we should be thinking about for the fourth quarter.
That’s primarily what I was referring to.
Just as a reminder our trends for last year if you go back to fourth quarter 2013 October was up compared to 2012 by roughly 2%.
November was down about 5% and December was up 16% on a year-over-year basis.
And of course that was in part due to the timing of the holiday.
So it’s to your point very choppy.
But if you look at what we’re also focused on is our sequential trend and at least sequentially we’re not really seeing anything on in our trends.
So at this point our outlook for the fourth quarter is good.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We’ll take our next question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Hi good afternoon everyone.
Hey just a follow-up on John’s call about some of the counterparty positions.
This is to you Tammy.
I think at the end of the June quarter you were just over $100 million that you had held from counterparties.
And then just given the decline in fuel do you have an estimate of what that swing is? Because you did mention that I think you suggested that you are now posting with counterparties? And I am just asking so we can see how it impacted cash from quarter-to-quarter? Sure.
The market value of our fuel hedge portfolio at September 30 was a net asset of $53 million.
So we did not have any collateral posted at that time.
And as of Friday the market value of our hedge portfolio was a net liability of $236 million and we had approximately $100 million in cash collateral posted.
Okay that’s good then.
And so it sounds  And Michael while Tammy was talking I was flipping through the press release.
And if you look at the cash flow statement you do see that flip.
Okay.
Even as of the end of the quarter there is a $98 million cash outflow.
Yeah.
On that cash collateral received or paid to derivative counterparties.
So yeah I mean it has its plusses and minuses but it’s all very manageable.
Yes and it’s nothing like the $1 billion-plus maybe that we saw back in 2008 2009 where I think you have now come up with a structure where you can use a letter of credit or aircraft.
It’s de minimis relative to what we saw a few years back.
Yeah.
And it was on $1 billion then but it was a bigger number there is no doubt about it.
So I think we’ve learned and… Yes.
Mike we are… We’ve got a really strong position.
We’re in good.
I think we’re in good shape there.
Yeah I apologize for the hyperbole.
And just one other quick one here.
I know you’ve talked about the international service from Houston in the latter part of the year 2015.
I did it does look like you loaded a Houston-Aruba service starting this March.
And when I saw that I thought okay the terminal is ready.
Is that just taking advantage of a pre-clearance facility in Aruba? What’s… That’s it.
Okay all right perfect.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Helane Becker with Cowen &amp; Company.
Thanks very much operator.
Hi guys thank you for the time.
Hi Helane.
Hi.
So here is one of my questions.
With respect to your schedule adjustment that you did in August in an effort to improve on time performance because I guess when you were doing 10-minute turns your aircraft were a whole lot smaller so you were carrying fewer people relative to what you are doing now.
Can you talk about how that’s improved your overall operations and where you stand relative to your goals for improving on time? Thanks.
But we’ve had a little over 60 days I guess with the quote new schedule and I would say that is performing exactly as intended.
We will need a little bit more experience to decide whether it needs more turning but at times we’ve had some unusual spring like weather.
We had the fire at the Chicago tower which disrupted our on-time performance because of a disruption in the operation.
The tower is up and running since the October 13 the on-time performance and the weather has been pretty good and the on-time performance has been superb.
So we’ve had very strong load factors this month and very strong on-time performance.
So I am very happy now Mike Van De Ven already to add I don’t know if I would call it insurance but more operational recoverability with our April schedule.
So he is going to getting more help there from a scheduling perspective i.e.
you will have more airplanes to recover with.
Just to make sure that we get out of a pace of hopefully somewhere in the 83% to plus 85% range and then we’ll tune it from there but I am very pleased with it and its working I think Mike pretty much as designed.
Okay great.
And then I just have one follow-up question.
Somebody asked me this yesterday and I didn’t really have a good – I didn’t have any answer.
The question was when will you announce service to Hawaii? We know why you didn’t have an answer to that question because you don’t know.
And you know what neither do I.
That’s certainly fair.
Thank you.
See you in a few weeks.
I’m looking forward into it.
We’ll take our next question from Jamie Baker with JP Morgan.
Hi sorry about that I was just adjusting my earpiece.
I don’t want to myopically obsess on the immediate term but the stock has responded poorly to the 2% October revenue guide particularly given the easier year-over-year comp relative to the month of September.
Could you add any color on this? For example what sort of pressures that perhaps that new routes are putting on RASM.
And maybe if you had a same-store sales RASM guide that you could provide something that strips out let’s say LaGuardia and DCA for example? Well nothing really Jam if you look at there is really nothing unusual about standing out in our comp if you look at it.
If you look at our performance from September relative to October there is really nothing odd there in sequential.
And again there is some noise in the year-over-year comparison.
So there – so aside from that nothing really stands out.
So I guess the only other thing I would point out is we do have sequentially few more ASMs and then of course another important point to note is the increasing stage length from just the riding and the flying so but nothing really unusual.
Okay.
And for the follow-up similar question as to when I asked last quarter you had and it relates to labor.
You’ve had three more months to begin and better understand what the asks are from your flight attendants and pilots.
You’ve had three more months to look around the industry both here and aboard to see what labor efficiencies some competing airlines might have that you don’t.
How that process is going overall.
And how confident should we be that renegotiated contracts and put material pressure on margins next year? Well again I’m pleased with the leadership that the IM has exhibited here and I think Tammy has already shared that the anticipated effects of that tentative agreement are already baked into our expectations going forward.
So we got opportunities to do more for people and we’ve got opportunities to improve the efficiency of the company which benefits our people.
So I’m very confident we are making good progress.
I don’t Jamie I don’t know we’ve learned anything different or more in the last 90 days with respect to that point.
But we have made progress from a negotiating standpoint with several of our new new groups.
I’m very pleased with that.
Excellent solid quarter solid guide.
Thank you both.
Thank you Jamie.
We’ll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore.
Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
Just a follow-up to Jamie’s question can you talk about how much sort of fare sale activity in Dallas is impacting that October RASM number? As I mentioned earlier part of the sequentially is we are doing more flying as a result of our Wright Amendment flying.
Yes we did have introductory fares but we’re seeing great high sales but we’re seeing very high load factors.
So yes nothing notable.
There are no issues.
I think it is literally the sequential cost what’s normal to us.
The year-over-year comps just have to be studied and understood if there is some question about that but there is no change in trend in October.
October was very strong very high load factors very good on-time performance very solid yields.
Appreciate that.
And then just I wonder if you could quantify the number of idle aircraft maybe non-productive aircraft that are also not spares in the fleet in 2014 versus your expectations for 2015.
It seems like you’ll start to get some benefits from a more productive fleet next year.
The utilization is up in 2014 compared to 2013 at the same time that we were putting arguably more aircraft out-of-service to go through various transitions.
And that schedule just proved to be a little too tight.
So the on-time performance suffered.
So there is a couple of things going on even in 2013 2014 that are confusing and I think we’ll have an opportunity Duane in November to give you all better insights as to where we’ve been where we are and where we’re headed in 2015.
The number that I have off the top of my head is about 20 airplanes additional out-of-service on average.
So if you’ll just take that number with a grain of salt because it’s – I think that is a good representation of what the opportunity is in 2015 but we probably have a little bit more homework to do.
I don’t recall any off the top of my head is the average for 2015 is 20 more in service than what we have here in 2014 but looking backwards Duane the number of in-service fell about 20 as you went from 2012 2013 into 2014.
And so that’s the opportunity going forward to restore into service with no change in the total fleet.
That answers to your question?  It does.
Thanks very much.
See you soon.
And we’ll take our next question from Glenn Engel with Bank of America.
Good afternoon.
A couple questions please.
One fuel hedges you indicated that it really is not going to have much of an impact in the fourth quarter meaning they are not hurting your P&amp;L.
Does that $200 million loss result in an impact in your fuel cost per gallon next year? We’ll give you – again we’ll discuss our 2015 guidance here in a couple of weeks but at least so far Glenn we’re participating in 80% of the decline that we’ve seen.
So and of course we’ll enjoying lower physical prices.
So we’ll give you guidance here in a couple weeks as we discuss our plan in full.
But at least so far everything looks pretty good.
Our treasury team is doing I think a very nice job of managing our hedge book in this very volatile market.
Again we had a $0.05 gain here in the third quarter and we’re paying roughly market prices here in the fourth quarter.
And so far we’re participating in the majority of the market decline.
Well and again I wouldn’t call it a $200 million loss either.
You understand the mark-to-market things that we deal with and you have to suffer with too in our reporting but the projective settlement is not anywhere near what the mark-to-market is.
So I think all that we could probably elaborate in November but I think it’s all very manageable and who knows where prices were going to go from here.
It is the other thing that I know you well know.
So it flipped around in one quarter.
It can flip the other way in another quarter or two as well.
So that’s what the hedging portfolio is for is to try to position us so that we can manage our total spend through all this volatility.
Unfortunately I have been doing this for 30 years.
Head count is up 1.3%.
Your trips are down 4%.
Your fleet is down slightly.
When do we start seeing productivity? I think that somewhat relates to Duane’s earlier question.
So in terms of the aircraft available for service the productivity for the fleet this year looks pretty good except that the on-time performance suffered.
The AirTran segment is under scheduled.
I think we have been sharing that with you all frequently.
In the Southwest segment arguably at least for part of this year it was quote overscheduled.
So I think we definitely have opportunities to smooth all that out after the AirTran and integration that’s complete.
And then you’ve got on the order of 20 aircraft out of service coming back into service which will also be another productivity improvement beginning in 2015 and again we need to share that with you all in more detail in November.
And actually… 2016 Glenn is the year where I think Tammy things are pretty clean.
So it is just another illustration for everyone that there is a lot of noise in the Southwest performance right now and just another illustration of how strong the results really are.
So a lot of this noise gets cleaned up here in 2014.
There is still some in 2015 and by the time it gets 2016 we’re clear of it.
And lastly it seems like you purchased a whole bunch more used aircraft in the last three months.
Is that going to be lifting what you think 2015 capacity growth is some? Glenn we’ve been commenting all along that we’re managing to a flat fleet of $695.
So all of that was part of the plan.
So no no new news there.
Yes remember we’re retiring 88 717s in a – what 30-month period.
So that’s all you’re seeing there.
Yes we don’t have all of that of course perfectly time.
But there were no new information there.
We’ve been saying all along that we’re going to augment our firm deliveries from Boeing with aircraft from the pre-owned market.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we have time for one more question.
We will take our last question from Joe DeNardi with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp;Co.</strong> Hi good morning.
Gary or Tammy I am wondering if the success you’ve had with the change to your no-show policy.
I can’t imagine that much impact on customer loyalty if that’s changed the way you think about your reservation change policy? You mean our changed fee… Nicolaus &amp;Co.</strong> Yes.
So I’ll just give you an answer before an explanation.
I don’t think that there is any correlation.
I think most reasonable people understands the fairness of a no-show policy.
But if I am not going to show up I can at least give the airline that the notice that they have the seat back for resell.
I got to keep my money and use it again.
I think that that is eminently fair.
Most of the complaints I get from customers above that is they didn’t know.
They didn’t realize that that policy was in effect.
And they don’t like it.
so I will – I am not going to try to argue with you that the customers don’t care about it because they don’t like the no-show policy those that stumble into it.
But our customers for the most part now have adapted well to that.
And it’s very fair.
Change fee is very different we and don’t have any plans to make a change to our policy.
I would lump that in at least it would have answered you know about bag fees.
So no plans to make any changes to either one of us.
Nicolaus &amp;Co.</strong> Okay.
And then Tammy I think last quarter you talked about first quarter capacity up about 5%.
I’m wondering if you have a similar outlook for second quarter now.
We are going to share all of that with you here in a couple of weeks.
So stay tuned on that.
We’ll walk through our capacity plans in some detail.
But really what we said you know for our 2015 is that we’re expecting our seat to increase about 3% and of course I assume year-over-year would exceed that because of the nature of that flying.
It will be more longer haul and to the point Gary made earlier on utilization just to increase the utilization of the fleet.
And again I would just recap the overview right now for you all for 2015 is really nothing has changed.
The fleet plans are unchanged.
We’ll be roughly flat maybe a few more units at the end of 2015.
The seats are increasing simply because the gauge is increasing.
We may end up with some increase in trips but it won’t be very much.
Where we’re expanding is as important to the conversation is anything which is its Dallas Love Field and most of that you know there is a few things that we may do that Love Field next year but the vast majority you know.
And I mentioned to you DCA.
And then just again reemphasized with everyone that the most ambitious expansion for us is international and our international plants are very measured and will have only a modest impact on our capacity growth next year.
So those are the headlines those are not new.
We’re in the final stages of completing our 2015 plan and anxious to share it with you all in a month.
Just to emphasize where the capacity is going is what’s important here for the first quarter virtually most of that capacity is going into Dallas Love Field.
And at this time I’d like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Tom.
I just want to thank everyone again for joining us today and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today’s call.
I’d like to first introduce Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President Communication &amp; Outreach.
Good afternoon Tom.
Good afternoon everyone.
I’d be happy to take your questions if you go ahead Tom and give them the instructions to be able to queue up and do that.
Yes ma’am.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Jack Nicas with The Wall Street Journal.
Thank you.
Nice quarter everyone.
I’d like to first latch on to that load factor which I believe you say is a record and is pretty impressive compared to past quarter.
Could you provide any more insight on what’s behind that? Is this simply a matter of supply and demand the demand environment is that strong? Or have you guys been fiddling with your pricing or seeing more business travelers et cetera.
Hoping you can just give us a little more detail on how you’re feeling so many seats.
Well thank you Jack.
We can try.
I think it’s probably unfortunately not a simple answer because there’s so much change that’s going on within Southwest Airlines.
We’ve changed our frequent flyer program.
I think it’s far better and more popular.
We have been aggressive in optimizing our route structure.
So one thing that is really culminating here in 2014 is we’ve gotten rid of underperforming routes and we redeployed airplanes to better routes that clearly is a benefit here.
The economy at least in our view has been more consistent more stable driving more confidence and more consistent travel demand.
That’s showing up.
The industry is not adding a lot of capacity as well.
So supply demand obviously seems to be from an industry perspective and nice balance.
We’ve had very few fare increases this year.
So we’re trying very hard to hold the line on our own cost pass those savings onto our customers.
We want to be America’s low fare airline.
And we had fare increase last week of a couple of bucks and that was in my opinion to cover the increase in the TSA tax.
So if you don’t like that you can raise your congressman on that one.
But overall it’s been a healthy travel environment with a healthy economy and I think superb route management by our folks.
I think just all the way around our folks are doing a great job.
I am proud that bags fly free – I can’t say it but I am proud of it and no change fees.
I think that make sure a very strong brand promise to our customers and break the load factors are also a result of that.
Okay terrific thanks and one quick follow-up.
You guys can probably tell that newspaper editors love the word Ebola right now so I have to ask for them have you seen any effect at all as far as you can tell on the bookings from the concern of Ebola in the U.S.? None negative nada.
And Tammy mentioned that in her remarks earlier so to make sure we’re consistent.
Okay.
And we have experienced with this in the past with other outbreaks and this is so few people have been effected in the United State but in any of that giving you a straight answer to your question there is absolutely no evidence in any of our research that we’ve seen an impact from it.
Okay thanks so much.
We’ll take our next question from Terry Maxim with The Dallas Morning News.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Could you elaborate on your comments on on-time? What sense do you think if you’ve got the problem licked and kind of follow-up on your comments that that further adjustments that might happen in April.
What are you looking at there? Terry the changes went into effect in early August.
So I don’t if August is such a clean month to try to analyze.
If you move to September we were hoping to get an on-time performance somewhere in the mid to high 80s and we ended up at 80%.
I don’t believe those numbers have been published yet Mike but that’s I am pretty sure Terry what you’re ultimately see when the DOT report comes out.
That was on phase to be closer to 85% probably 84% but for the Chicago situation.
But 80% in September was the best performance of the year it’s good for September factoring and the problems we had in Chicago and we watch this on a daily basis we compare our on-time performance to our peers.
And based on all these evaluative technique I feel very good that the schedule changes are effective.
We planned to do more as I’ve mentioned that I’m really happy with the performance we’re seeing now.
But Mike you’ve had record load factor days here in October with stellar on-time performance we’ve had somehow OTP days of 90% haven’t we?  That’s right.
Yes so we haven’t seen that while [Kery] (ph) and so it is obvious if the schedule changes are having a positive effect as within that.
Okay just a follow-up question I would like to ask about the Wright amendment.
You are talking about the very high load factors.
Do you have a feeling about how those loads will be once the statement goes into affect or the introductory fares go away and you’ve got your schedule fully up and we get into more normalized environment.
I will let Bob answer that.
We do run higher load factors on our long-distance flights and Bob as I think you know lot about this question.
If you look at the load factor the last load factor I remember for our 800 fleet was almost 90%.
So I’m not going to be surprised if we continue to hover around 90% on a long-haul routes.
Love is a constrained market as well with only 20 gates.
So any thoughts there Bob.
Yes Terry that’s exactly right.
Our longer haul flying tends to be in that 90% or sometimes 90% plus range.
So you’re going to have that added to Dallas just because of the flight mix is changing.
We’re making sure that we’ve got really good fares we’re making sure that we’ve got plenty of local seats available too.
So we want to manage our connections of Dallas because Love Field is constrained.
So we want plenty of room for our local Dallas customers and our new Dallas customers.
So to Gary’s point I wouldn’t be surprised if we because of the longer haul flying because of the constrains on the airport because of demand that we continue to see high load factors in Dallas higher than the system.
But Terry I would like to pile on here and compliment Bob and his team.
We can analyze why it is what it is but we don’t launch new routes and have this kind of performance.
And they’ve done a wonderful job of managing the overall capacity of Dallas so that you don’t benefit one route and hurt others.
They’ve just done a masterful job.
So some of the earlier questions that we had about our revenue trends whether Dallas is and actually Dallas is performing exceptionally well.
And I think that that is a large part due to the terrific design by our network planning folks.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Andrea Ahles with The Fort Worth Star-Telegram  Thank you for taking my question.
The sort of piggy bag now Terry was actually with the right men and you’re seeing these load factors over 90% can you talk about that how operationally you’re able to handle that? Is it impacting your on-time at all as you get ready to ramp and add even more flights into Love Field in November?  Well it’s one of those where I feel like we’re hitting on all cylinders.
I think the commercial team has done a great job publishing the right routes with the right marketing support the right revenue management support.
And operationally Mike’s team has known this was coming.
The airport was ready.
The airport construction was finished and it is beautiful and operating just like we had hoped.
Mike any other thoughts?  No.
I think you’re right.
On-time performance has been exceptionally strong and… It’s been good.
At Dallas we factored all those in.
We factored the 800 in.
We’ve got 10 times adjusted hopefully appropriately for that and I feel like we’re executing very well.
Andrea we’ve had to add staff obviously for 22 digital flights but all that was well done and all the folks are trained glad to be there and it’s just going really really well.
I’m very proud of everybody.
So you’re not seeing any sort of impact on your on-time performance out of Love with the longer turn times? No.
No Andrea the on-time performance this month is after Chicago was back up and running which just happened to be the same day that the Wright amendment launched our on-time performance on a daily basis has been really really good.
All right.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from David Koenig with The Associated Press.
Hi folks.
Gary in response to one of the analyst’s questions about hedging you said that fuel volatility is working for you now but might not in the future.
So you have to consider that.
I wondered what about fuel volatility in fares? We’ve had this big drop in crude oil and jet fuel prices since about April I guess.
Should passengers expect to see that passed along to see that show up in lower fares? Well it’s a meaningful part of the cost structure.
I think the biggest problem for us now when we get into a period like this is what’s going to happen next.
You remember 1999 crude oil I think was down to $10 a barrel only to be followed with increases every single year for the next decade.
It was just an unrepresented spike that took place.
So that’s what worries me in an environment like this is what are the unintended consequences that flow from this.
So that’s said a different way.
There’s no way that we can count on $80 crude oil going forward.
I’m not willing to do that.
So we’ll do our best to hedge and capture the best pricing that we can for our jet fuel purchases.
And then for the first time since year 2000 we get our return on invested capital target so I just hope that we continue in this.
It’s not like we’re as an industry making money hand over fist.
It’s far from that.
So we’re finally realizing returns that one would expect from a high quality industrial company and I think we’ll certainly celebrate the fact that the energy prices are lower than they otherwise would be no question of that.
But couldn’t you respond quickly enough if the prices doesn’t stay at $80 and goes back to a $100 to $120 couldn’t you just turnaround and lays fairs back up to what’s going out? Yes and you’ve seen that and it doesn’t work.
I’m sure you heard my complaint earlier about the increase in the TSA tax.
That Bob Jordan and our revenue management folks are concerned about trying to pass that along.
We would always see an impact from increasing fares.
So whether it is ultimately revenue positive is a question of the strength of the demand at the time and many times it’s not very productive.
So I mean if you go back to 2008 there was a very sharp spike in energy prices all carriers tried to raise fares five went bankrupt that aren’t here anymore.
So no the answer is absolutely not.
You can’t count on that.
So that’s a different way what I would not want to do to customers is take them through the same volatile ride with fares lowered in one day raised in the next day I think that that would be absolutely the worst thing that we could do when we have absolutely no plan to do that.
Okay.
Thanks.
We’ll take our next question from (indiscernible).
Thank you very much.
To clarify these comments are you locking in today’s few prices under call options or you waiting to see if prices continue to fall for jet fuel? I just didn’t hear the first part of your question if you don’t mind in repeating it.
Of course are you locking in today’s fuel prices under call options or are you going to wait for price to fall more before creating new hedge contract.
Well let me let Tammy to answer that.
The short answer is no we’re not.
We don’t lock-in prices but let me let Tammy at least explain a little bit about our hedging.
Yes on just for 2015 we’re currently about 40% hedge for 2014.
And that’s really been online with where we’ve been for 2015 for quite some time.
So we’ve got positions out through 2018 they were 40% hedged.
And on 2015 2016 2017 and then we have about a 5% position out in 2018.
Great thank you.
And with those positions we don’t actually lock the price.
We buy options that would cap the price.
So more prices it does provide an opportunity for us buy more and obviously Tammy and her team will work and think about that.
Okay great thank you.
And one other question would you be able to specify guidance for total revenue and perhaps operating margin numerically for the entire fourth quarter rather than month to month? I guess the short answer that is no.
We’ve given guidance here on October but the trends at least so far look good.
Great thank you very much.
We’ll take our next question from Mike Sasso with Bloomberg News Hi good afternoon.
Hi.
Given the JetBlue had a earlier sided some overcapacity or falling yields in Latin America.
And I guess the question is that you mentioned earlier that your international operations were kind of weighing on your results.
So can you quantify just talk about is over capacity or falling yields in Latin America weighing on how much is that weighing on your results if anything? Thank you and I appreciate the opportunity to clarify a little bit.
The conversion from AirTran of Southwest adds more flights in the former AirTran markets and number one.
Number two it also adds we’re also not fully connected to all of the Southwest Airlines route network because we were facing in those flights to all of our locations gradually.
So for example while we might have a nonstop flight from Baltimore to the Caribbean if a customer was originating in Rochester New York they might not be able to get an international itinerary yet whereas in the future they will.
So we are facing in our international operations gradually and right now the financial performance isn’t what one would expect once those markets are mature.
There is nothing unusual about this.
There is nothing unexpected.
It’s a brand new venture for us.
It really has nothing in other words to do with macro issues or whether there is too much supply or too little supply.
Those routes were performing very well on AirTran and I expect by this time next year they will be performing very well on Southwest Airlines.
With respect to your broader question – so that’s what’s going on within Southwest in other words.
So that is simply a transition effort that we’ve got to work through and we’re working through it very well and I have every confidence that we’ll be where we need to be this time next year.
Now with respect to whether there is too much capacity or concerns about us adding more flights not on the routes that we’ve selected.
So I mentioned that we’ll be serving Costa Rica.
We’ve announced service between Baltimore/Washington and San Jose Costa Rica beginning March 7 that as one flight a day each way.
We are very confident that that flight will perform very very well.
So we don’t have a large amount of Southwest capacity in international.
We don’t plan to have a lot more next year.
So none of these are concerns that we would share at Southwest.
And we have time for one final question.
Today we’ll take our last question from (indiscernible) with Flightglobal.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Gary you mentioned just now that you plan to be adding a handful of international destinations this year.
Most of this is going to be from Houston-Aruba? Or are you looking at elsewhere?  Well we haven’t said yet but clearly we do plan to launch service when the terminal is ready in Houston and so we’ll just need to stay tuned on that.
But the handful really means probably three or four more new cities for Southwest Airlines service next year.
So we’re excited about that.
It won’t attract a lot of flights.
It won’t be a lot of incremental capacity with obviously you’ll be – what we hope will be some exciting new destinations so stay tuned.
At this time I’d like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Rutherford for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Tom.
We appreciate you all being with us.
If you have any follow-up questions the media can reach us at SWAmedia.com or through our direct line at 214-792-4847.
Thanks so much.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s call.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Fourth Quarter 2014 conference call.
My name is Matthew and I'll be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and the replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Matthew and good morning everyone and welcome to today's call to discuss our fourth quarter and annual 2014 results.
Joining me on the call is Gary Kelly our Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer; Mike Van De Ven Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Ron Ricks Executive Vice President and Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer.
We will begin with opening remarks from Gary followed by Tammy providing a review of our results and our current outlook.
We will move to the Q&amp;A portion of the call following Tammy's remarks.
Today's call will include forward-looking statements and because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you Marcy and good morning everybody.
Thank you very much for joining our fourth quarter earnings call.
Our fourth quarter earnings excluding items were a record dramatically surpassing last year's previous record by 79%.
Our revenues were up $200 million and interestingly enough fuel was down $200 million and the result was a beautiful thing.
So for the first time in 14 years we achieved our ROIC target and in this case we exceeded it with a 21.2% return on invested capital.
The operating performance was propelled by the successful deployment of our strategic initiatives very pleased with the Rapid Rewards for the year that was an almost $400 million revenue contribution.
The fleet modernization effort for 2014 was $0.5 billion as was the AirTran integration synergies of $500 million for the year so we're very pleased with all of that.
Without any one of those of course we would not have had the stellar results that we did but our people have done a magnificent job managing all the transformational change over the last 5 to 10 years.
They are passionate about Southwest passionate about serving our customers better than our competitors and with a reliable and low cost operation and I could not be more proud of them strategic initiatives aside we would not have Southwest as we know it without these incredible people.
So my thanks to all of them but also my congratulations to them because they have been richly rewarded.
We've had tremendous stock price appreciation.
Last year we increased the dividend by 50% and then of course we had record profit sharing for 2014.
So just turning as to what happens next in our business.
Our earnings outlook is superb if for no other reason than fuel costs are down dramatically year-over-year.
Our business remains steady although I would alert everyone to be mindful of the distortions in analyzing our performance on a unit basis and as we point out that's caused by the increased utilization of the fleet the increased stage length the increase in the gauge all leading to very healthy ASM growth.
I also want to remind everyone again of the large percentage of our route system that is under development and that translates primarily to international markets that have been converted from AirTran the Dallas Love Field expansion with the repeal of the Wright Amendment on October 13.
Dallas available seat mile capacity by the way is up over 80% in the fourth quarter year-over-year and also Reagan National which with the slots we acquired that capacity growth is 180%.
So our business has been strong and steady despite all of this large percentage under development.
The collapse in oil prices since September of course is very big news.
I think it's safe to say that we're still trying to digest all of the news and the ramifications for us.
Of course in the meantime we have significantly lower fuel costs and it drops straight to the bottom line for the most part but we have been and will continue to actively manage our hedging program given this significant change.
We've made no changes to our growth plans for this year.
We will of course factor in the latest and greatest news into our fall planning for 2016 and 2017 but at this point we've made no changes to those years either.
From a cash flow perspective we're assuming energy cost will be lower than what our fall plan for this year initially showed and therefore operating cash flow will be higher.
That's a high quality problem.
We'll be thoughtful as to our uses of that additional cash but as a footnote I would add that given the extreme volatility that we're experiencing in the oil markets it's anybody's guess what will happen next.
So we will manage as best we can factoring in that very high level of uncertainty with energy prices going forward.
Again overall I think wherever we end up here over the next several years is going to be lower than what we thought before September.
So with that Tammy will take us through our stellar results for the quarter and I want to thank her for her superb financial leadership and just enjoy the review here Tammy.
Thank you Gary and thanks to everyone for joining us.
We are thrilled to report today on an outstanding finish to what has been a record year of accomplishment.
Our annual net income excluding special items was a record $1.4 billion or $2.01 per diluted share which is an exceptional 80% increase year-over-year.
Our 2014 GAAP net income was also a record $1.1 billion or $1.64 per diluted share.
Gary walked you through all of the benefits from our strategic initiatives and of course those were strong contributors to these wonderful results.
Overall our annual profits resulted in pre-tax ROIC excluding special items of 21.2% for 2014.
We are delighted and we handily surpassed our minimum target of 15% and as Gary mentioned that represented our highest ROIC since 1981.
Our fourth quarter performance was also exceptional.
Fourth quarter net income excluding special items was a record $404 million or $0.59 per share which also increased nearly 80% year-over-year and represented our 7th consecutive quarter of record profits.
Fourth quarter GAAP net income was $190 million and operating income excluding special items was also a fourth quarter record of $621 million and we expanded our operating margin by more than 500 basis points to 14.7%.
These strong results were driven by record revenues significantly lower fuel prices and our ongoing cost control effort.
Our 2014 profits earned our employees a well-deserved record $355 million in profit sharing and I just want to congratulate all of our wonderful employees on just the fabulous results which also represents our 42nd consecutive year of profit.
I'll turn to revenues now.
Our revenue results were strong and better than expected.
Our fourth quarter revenues reached record levels increasing 4.5% year-over-year to $4.6 billion driven largely by record passenger revenues of $4.4 billion.
Strong demand for travel resulted in record traffic and load factors on 2.6% fewer trips year-over-year.
Overall we are pleased with the revenue strength across our network and we saw strength in both our business and leisure travel demand.
On a unit basis total operating revenues increased 2% compared with fourth quarter last year on a 2.4% increase in available seat miles.
Our passenger unit revenues increased 2.6% compared with last year's record fourth quarter which is outstanding considering the 2.6% increase in stage length and the 2.4% increase in seats per trip.
Furthermore nearly 20% of our capacity was in developing markets and that includes our new Dallas non-stop markets which took off very strong with the majority of the new markets meeting or exceeding a 90% load factor.
And our international markets also continue to ramp up nicely and performed in-line or ahead of our expectations.
Our fourth quarter passenger revenues included an additional $55 million related to the amount of spoilage expected for points sold to business partners and as our new Frequent Flier program has matured we have continued to monitor member redemption activity and behavior and during 2014 with a few years under our belt with the new program we obtained enough historical data under the new program to develop a predictive statistical model and the model indicated an increase in spoilage which was recorded prospectively as a change in estimate.
The higher spoilage rate is expected to continue in 2015 however the revenue impact will not be known until the actual number of points redemption for the period is known.
Therefore the fourth quarter revenue increase does not necessarily represent a steady state quarterly impact through 2015 and without the change in estimate our fourth quarter passenger unit revenues would have fallen within our guidance of the increase of 1% to 2% but the rate that we expect going forward of course are factored into the guidance that we provided in the earnings release.
Thus far in January the travel demand remains strong and based on current bookings and revenue trends; we expect first quarter 2015 passenger revenues to increase year-over-year in-line with our 6% capacity growth which suggests a flat PRASM.
While it's too early to provide revenue guidance for full year 2015 as we communicated at Investor Day our goal is to keep pace with our capacity growth compared with 2014.
Keep in mind our year-over-year first quarter PRASM results will reflect the impact of an estimated 3.5% increase in stage length and 2.4% increase in seats per trip both compared with first quarter '14 and 20% of the market remain under development.
For January we expect strong passenger revenue growth and when coupled with approximately 10% ASM growth we currently expect PRASM to be down slightly year-over-year but just as a reminder of the 10% ASM growth 3 percentage points was due to last year's polar vortex winter storms.
This slightly down expectation for January PRASM also reflects about a 2 to 3 point headwind from increased stage engage and maintains approximately 20% of our capacity under development which reinforces the fact that we're seeing underlying strength in January's performance.
Moving to freight and other revenues freight revenues grew 12% year-over-year primarily benefiting from new and maturing markets as a result of the AirTran integration and we currently expect first quarter 2015 freight revenues to increase from first quarter 2014 in the 6% range.
Other revenues decreased almost 9% year-over-year primarily due to the decline of the AirTran fees as expected with the transition of the AirTran network over to Southwest.
We currently expect the year-over-year decline to continue through the fourth quarter of 2015 as a result of the completion of the integration process which occurred during fourth quarter.
For first quarter 2015 we are expecting a year-over-year decline in total revenues similar to the year-over-year decline in fourth quarter 2014.
The fourth quarter 2014 decline in AirTran related fees was partially offset by an increase in certain ancillary revenues such as Early Bird check-in and our A1 through A15 select boarding positions which are sold at the gate.
Our Early Bird revenues continued to be very strong at $56 million for the fourth quarter.
So with that revenue update I'll turn now and speak to our cost performance.
Our fourth quarter unit costs excluding special items decreased 3.8% on a year-over-year basis largely due to the significant drop in fuel prices.
Our fourth quarter economic jet fuel price per gallon declined 14% which also reflects a $0.03 hedging loss which was about $15 million.
Our fuel prices have plunged nearly 50% in recent months as Gary mentioned and in response to the collapse in fuel prices we effectively unhedged our 2015 fuel consumption.
For the first quarter we neutralized our hedge with offsetting hedges which essentially resulted in a $0.10 watch and loss and we are now participating in 90% of the market drop as a result.
So very proud of how our Treasury group has managed this really steep decline in market prices.
Based on our hedge position and market prices as of last Friday we expect our first quarter fuel price per gallon to be in the $1.90 range which is significantly below first quarter $3.08.
From mid-September to today's market price we have participated in 80% of the decline for 2015.
For the full year based on our fuel derivative contracts and current market prices we estimate our 2015 economic jet fuel price per gallon to be in the $1.95 to $2.05 range which would represent $1.7 billion in year-over-year fuel cost savings.
So obviously very substantial.
Turning to non-fuel costs our unit costs excluding special items and fuels increased 2.3% year-over-year and that was largely driven by the 52% increase in profit sharing expense.
If you take out profit sharing and special items our non-fuel unit costs increased a modest 1.2% year-over-year.
So we're very pleased with the ongoing benefits from our fleet modernization and just overall cost control effort.
This was slightly better than expected due to lower than expected costs such as advertising.
Based on current cost trends we expect first quarter 2015 unit costs excluding fuel special items and profit-sharing to decrease year-over-year in the 1% to 2% range compared with first quarter 2014 8.5 bps and our full year 2015 unit costs excluding fuel special items and profit sharing remains unchanged from Investor Day where we provided an outlook of also down in the 1% to 2% range year-over-year.
Moving to our strong balance sheet and cash flow we ended the year with $3 billion in cash and short-term investments and we also have our $1 billion revolving credit line fully available.
We continue to generate strong free cash flow.
Our free cash flow for 2014 was $1.1 billion which we returned to our shareholders through $955 million in share repurchases and $139 million in dividend payments.
In fourth quarter we repurchased $200 million in shares under an accelerated stock repurchase program and we have $380 million remaining under our $1 billion share repurchase authorization.
In 2014 we repaid $561 million in debt and capital lease obligations which includes a bullet repayment of $350 million on notes that were due October 1.
During the fourth quarter we refinanced with $300 million in unsecured notes at 2.75% coupon rate which is a historic low rate for us.
Based on -- and in 2015 we intend to repay $182 million in scheduled debt and capital lease payments.
Our leverage including off balance sheet aircraft leases at the end of the year was 35% and as you all probably read we were upgraded by S&amp;P during fourth quarter to a BBB rating and we are the only investment grade U.S.
airline for all three credit agencies.
We also continue to manage our CapEx with 2014 spend of $1.7 billion plus $80 million of assets constructed for others which was right in-line with our expectations.
For 2015 we currently expect our CapEx spending to decline from 2014 levels and fall in the $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion range excluding assets constructed for others which is estimated to be about fall in the $50 million to $100 million range.
And that brings me to a quick recap of our 2014 fleet activity.
We took delivery of 33 Dash 800s from Boeing and 22 pre-owned Dash 700s and on the retirement side we retired five Classics this year.
We have removed all of the AirTran 717s from service and as of the end of the fourth quarter we had transitioned 52 717s to Delta and have since transitioned an additional two which brings us to a total of 34 remaining 717s that will be transitioned to Delta in 2015.
In addition thus far we've transitioned 48 of the 52 AirTran 700s to Southwest with the last four currently in conversion.
We continue to manage our fleet plans to a relatively flat fleet through the end of 2015 which is in-line with what we've said previously.
So as Gary stated no change in plans there.
So we're managing to roughly 700 aircraft which as a reminder was the combined fleet roughly the combined fleet count at the time of the AirTran acquisition.
We expect our first quarter 2015 ASMs to increase year-over-year in the 6% range and our guidance for full year 2015 year-over-year capacity growth remains unchanged at approximately 6%.
Our first quarter capacity growth is driven by an expected 3% to 4% increase in stage length 2% to 3% increase in seats per trip and flat trips all compared with first quarter 2014.
The additional seats per trip are driven by of course our fleet modernization effort and are being produced at a minimal cost so very cost effective growth for us here in 2015.
In addition with the aircraft conversion activity and the phase out of the AirTran fleet behind us we now have the ability to utilize our fleet more again generating a low cost capacity that will fund our exciting growth opportunities in 2015 focused on Dallas Love Field Reagan and LaGuardia and also International.
In closing we couldn't be more thrilled with the very strong end to 2014 and our record performance for the year.
The successful execution of our strategic initiatives have positioned us well for future success and our 2015 is off to a great start.
We are pleased with our current revenue trends and as we said at Investor Day we're intently focused on maintaining our competitive low cost structure.
So far in 2015 we are continuing to benefit from low jet fuel prices ongoing fleet modernization and rigorous cost control efforts and are well-positioned to take advantage of our exciting growth opportunities.
Our balance sheet and cash flows are very strong as evidenced by upgrades in 2014 by both S&amp;P and Moody's and we're very proud of our solid investment grade rating.
We've demonstrated that we are focused on prudent capital deployment and we're committed to taking care of our employees customers and shareholders.
And before we open the call up for questions I would like to congratulate and thank all of our employees once again for these truly remarkable results and an amazing year.
So Matthew I'll turn it back to you.
[Operator Instructions].
We'll begin by taking our first question from Hunter Keay from Wolfe Research.
Tammy just a point of clarification on the spoilage I think you said it was not included in the roughly flat PRASM guide.
Should I assume that could only if anything be a good guide or because it's an off peak carry potentially could it break the other way or is that already in that flat number? It's already contemplated in there.
We do our best to forecast what we expect the rate to be.
Now as always as part of our close process we review all of that but it is contemplated in our guidance.
And please correct me if I'm wrong here Gary but I thought maybe in the past when you guys made changes to your hedging program that could sometimes be interpreted as sort of an implied commentary in what you're seeing in your bookings given that there was an underlying assumption that the changes in oil prices over time would be changes -- would be correlated to changes and driven by demand I should say.
So when you take off your hedges for the rest of 2015 I know you're seeing strong bookings right now you made that very clear but are you doing that because you potentially anticipate some degree of softening in demand as we move through the year? Or is this strictly something different because of what you're seeing in the overall global supply of oil? Hunter I don't know that we've tried to match our hedging to demand in the way you described so if you've gotten that from us I apologize.
So I think the main thing I would say is we have a hedging program in place as insurance so it's to protect us against primarily catastrophic but increases in energy costs.
So in doing that we're well protected with that.
Coming into 2015 with the hedging program that we had in place '15 '16 and '17 we're well protected.
And in an environment where energy prices drop and especially when they collapse the hedging program is going to cost us.
Now all-in of course we're realizing a significant reduction in energy cost and for us that's of course all airlines would wish for this but for us a low cost producer it enhances our competitive position because it allows the rest of our cost structure to have a more significant proportion of the total.
So it helps to widen our cost advantage so this is all a good thing.
I think the only point about the hedging program is we want to manage the cost of it so we have unhedged in 2015 because we had a view that prices were headed south and fortunately our folks were right and managed that I think very very well.
So we're not we're essentially unhedged for '15.
We do have positions in '16 and '17 and there is a mark-to-market with the portfolio for those two periods as well that we'll have to continue to manage but to me if you were to ask us well what do you think we should do next? I think we should simply continue to manage our portfolio and not try to speculate on what prices are going to be over the next three months six months 18 months.
That is anybody's guess.
We've got a scenario where we have very handsome margins.
We can put in hedging protection for the future to avoid a catastrophic increase in fuel prices which is well beyond the $45 to $50 range that we're trading in right now and just approach this in a way where the cost of the hedging program is sensible.
So with the volatility the way it is hedging is very expensive and hopefully that gives you a comprehensive answer to your question.
And we'll go next to Julie Yates with Credit Suisse.
Tammy just going back to Hunter's question can you provide any color on what the Q1 PRASM guide would be excluding the benefit from the accounting change? So that's really baked in going forward.
We've calculated the rates and they are not that far out of line with what we've been seeing historically.
So no we haven't provided that in the estimates but that's just part of our normal special steps revenue and that's our best estimate at this time.
So no we haven't -- we aren't going to provide that for the first quarter going forward.
And again a lot of that depends on how many rewards ultimately get redeemed as well.
So keep that in mind it's very tough to give you an exact forecast on that but actually going forward as we get more history with the program we should be able to predict that with more accuracy but it's within the normal range of what we've kind of seen historically.
And then just the other U.S.
carriers have noted some softness in domestic customs towards the end of Q4.
Do you have any comments on that or did you see a similar dynamic in any of your markets? I wouldn't call it softness.
Again I think the thing that makes us different is the reallocation of all of the AirTran capacity that we acquired back in 2011.
That's what's creating this large percentage of quote development markets for us because as you know we haven't grown on a combined basis we haven't grown the fleet.
We haven't grown capacity since 2011.
So what you're seeing in Dallas what you're seeing in International what you're seeing in Washington Reagan is simply redeployed not literally AirTran capacity but that's a big source of it.
So those markets are in development that's not a euphemism.
It's just simply saying they don't typically perform at system average and beyond that no I don't think we have I would not describe softness to anything that we're seeing.
I would agree Gary.
We spent a lot of time looking at our results here in the fourth quarter and when you adjust for the development markets we have PRASM gains realized really across all haul lengths.
We saw strength in both leisure and our business passengers and really if you back all that out and just look at our base of business on a same-store if you will it was a very strong performance.
So very delighted with our overall revenue performance.
And of course we keep emphasizing this and you all can factor it in how you choose but if you adjust as I like to do for the stage length change and for the gauge change that's a 2-point adjustment.
So it really takes the year which was up 4.6% it takes us up to 6.6% and the fourth quarter was a very strong performance as well.
So no softness is not a word that makes any kind of sense.
Now the change in energy prices is no doubt going to ripple through the oil and gas economy and we serve Texas in a big way.
So I did share earlier this morning in some media interviews that we've not seen any change in the travel in those markets either but obviously we're going to keep a close eye on that.
But so far everything is steady and we feel really good about the business.
We'll take our next question from Savi Syth with Raymond James.
So on the international side now that you have had more experience flying with Southwest I was just wondering what the experience has been and if there is any sense of maybe wanting to accelerate the growth in international or just is the opportunity in the domestic market that much better? Well yes we’re in the wonderful position of having numerous alternatives for future growth.
So we just as a reminder at this point beyond the 48 states we've got close to 50 additional destinations that we can consider.
I'll just use 2015 as a proxy to answer your question.
We're growing capacity 6% 5 of the 6 points are domestic and it's driven by Dallas and Reagan so all familiar themes that you've heard.
So we have 1.1% of our capacity today that’s deployed internationally.
It's 1.6% if you include Puerto Rico.
1 point of our growth next year will be international that's pretty measured that's pretty modest and I think you should expect that's going to continue for some time.
The markets are developing rapidly.
We've got a pretty significant increase in capacity compared to what AirTran was flying because we're flying daily and they were flying less than daily so we’ve factored all that into our expansion plans but we've announced three more destinations for 2015.
We're excited about all three of those.
Again it won't add up to a huge amount of capacity but we just want to walk before we run.
Operationally we want to be cautious and conservative here and make sure that we're comfortable with flying into different countries and different cultures and different languages.
So no change to what we've shared with you all earlier.
And if I could ask one more on the cash side if you do have this excess cash [inaudible] price declines comes up temporarily is there any kind of non-aircraft CapEx program that you're looking at or how should we think about the use of cash? We really don't have any change in plans based on the drop in fuel.
We're going to continue to manage our CapEx and do what makes sense for Southwest Airlines more or less and irrespective of what fuel is doing.
So we feel comfortable with our CapEx plans here for 2015 so at least at this point there has been no change in plans.
I would add one more thing there which is we are -- I would say we have an ambitious investment plan already.
We've worked hard to transform Southwest over the past 5 to 10 years.
We've invested a tremendous amount in technology already.
We have big plans of course to replace our reservation system and that will be an expensive project and then Mike Van De Ven is also leading an effort to invest heavily into our operations technology over the next five years.
So even without this additional if it turns out this way this additional cash we are investing heavily and what I would consider to be aggressively in about as much as I think the company can manage.
So I don't see an opportunity there that would be wise.
So we'll have other discussions about how we could use the cash but like I said earlier it's a high quality problem.
Sorry is it debt or are you returning cash to shareholders on the excess cash? All of the above.
So we'll look at those opportunities and I'm not saying that we're going to change our growth plans so don't miss read what I'm saying but obviously that is an opportunity for us to refresh those for -- after 2015 and we'll take a look at that or we'll just run a higher cash balance.
But if nothing else it will preempt the need to do any debt financings that we might have been contemplating over the next several years and we do have a fair amount of debt that's coming due over the next 36 months.
We'll go next to Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Yes two questions here.
Tammy did you in your commentary did you provide how much cash collateral you posted with your hedge counter parties for your I guess 2015 2016 positions? Yes I would be happy to go over that with you.
Let me pull up our exact amounts here.
So our collateral as of I guess it's roughly $270 million in cash roughly $200 million in aircraft and so that's the cash in aircraft and $250 million in a letter of credit.
So if I didn't provide that I can't remember but those are the numbers.
And then when you give us your cash position does that include the cash collateral that is held by the counter parties or is that? Yes we include that.
And then just my second question Gary it came across this morning on the headlines I think you were doing the CNBC interview and I think you had mentioned something about competition being the greatest in a generation.
And I just I look at what your ROIC was for the quarter and what other carriers are doing and I didn't know if maybe it was taken out of context if it meant that you and the rest of the industry was all competing to generate the highest returns and the best margins.
Like what did you mean by that? Well it was intended to be just a straightforward commentary.
Our competitors are at lower relative costs than they have had in a generation.
They are producing handsome profits unlike they have done in a generation.
They're running better operations than they have historically.
At least from our view of the world they're stronger competitors period.
And we're mindful of that and it's incumbent upon us to step up our game accordingly.
So it was just an acknowledgment that the competitive landscape has changed where you go back 10 years ago and they were floundering.
They aren't floundering now and that's good that's good for us and it makes us better.
So all I was trying to point out is that we're up to that task and I'll put my money on the Southwest people any day.
We go next to Helane Becker with Cowen and Company.
Gary can you just give us an update on where you stand with all your labor agreements and your negotiations and how that should work through 2015? I'll give you the headline and then I'll ask Mike and Tammy if they want to fill in some gaps here but we had three labor agreements reached in 2014 so Tammy can share what the cost effects of those are.
We have six others that we have been working on and now a 7th contract has become amendable.
So we currently have seven open contracts and it is my hope that we hit all of those negotiated and ratified in 2015.
Tammy anything you want to? No we've included again anything that's been ratified and they are included in the results and guidance but the guidance that we provided.
Okay.
I think though you have some big ones that are in negotiation and have been in for a long time right? Has there been movement made on like pilots for an example? Well I consider each one to be big and in terms of numbers of employees yes we had a number of employees covered again with our contracts that we reached last year.
Well they are all different so I can't give you a blanket answer for seven negotiations and one is just getting underway.
But we have opportunities to do two fundamental things.
One is to reward our employees for the very hard work and the stellar results and I'm most anxious to do that.
And secondly we have wonderful opportunities to better position Southwest to maintain our low cost position and our low fare brand and that's a blessing that we can achieve both of those things.
We've done that with some of our labor groups and I am optimistic that we'll be able to do it with these remaining seven.
We go next to David Fintzen with Barclays.
If I think back to the Investor Day as I recall in the fixed ASM growth there is still some that you weren't bringing back all of the slack aircraft utilization right away if I recall.
I'm just curious given the volatility in fuel is there some room at the margin either in those aircraft or in some of the off-peak flying that you've cut over the last few years to tweak the schedule a little bit in the short term? I don't think so not really for 2015.
I think in theory you might be right but again like both Tammy and I have tried to reiterate we're not changing any of our plans at least in 2015.
We're still very focused on the reliability of the operation that has some impact on the utilization of the fleet.
But at least as it stands right now some of this is constrained so there are aircraft out of service.
The way I did the math guys was I counted up 88% of our fleet is in service in other words available to fly and "normally" that ought to be more in the 93% to 95% range.
So some of this is just taking the 717s out of service some of it is finishing up the AirTran 737 conversions into Southwest.
So David you just have a higher number of aircraft than usual out of service in 2013 even more in 2014 and still in 2015.
We can't do anything about that right now.
When you get through all of that this year into the fourth quarter it's theoretically possible we could do a little bit more flying but again none of us are thinking that that's anything that we want to do.
We don't have really any thoughts of changing our fleet plans for this year.
If you include the 717s at the end of 2014 we had 701 aircraft and that is literally where we plan to end this year 701 airplanes.
So now again we'll give some thought to what we might want to do in 2016 but I would just quickly add that whatever we do will be just fine tuning.
I don't see us making any dramatic departures from our plans that we had previously.
And then just going back to the comments on the energy related business do you know sort of how much you've benefited from some of the shale etcetera in Texas over the last few years? Do you have a sense of what the pool of potential traffic might be that you'll have to watch or is that just hard to know? That's kind of an interesting question.
I don't know that we really looked at it that way.
I think it would be appropriate to do that.
I can pick on a couple cities where it's pretty obvious that there has been a dramatic boost but off the top of my head no David; I don't have a sense of that.
And obviously we're going to be watching very carefully for any change in trends and as I mentioned earlier I'm sure -- all of us can do the theory here but consumers are going to have a lot more money in their pockets to travel.
So that's a fact and my prediction is that we'll get some of that.
Obviously oil and gas businesses are going to cut back and that will result in some reduced travel inevitably but my bet is that the consumers are going to outweigh the cutbacks and you'll still see a very strong revenue environment.
I think what is more worrisome about the future is just what's going on around the world and what impact that might have on the U.S.
economy and what impact that might have on consumers and businesses and travel demand.
And again as we've reported over and over this morning there is just absolutely no evidence of anything changing on that front.
So we're trying to keep our eyes on that and plan for the future accordingly.
There is just a lot of uncertainty in the world right now things are really good for us and we just want to continue to be prepared for tough times if that is what emerges.
We'll take our next question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Tammy you identified the number of moving pieces behind the rise in guide.
I understand Love Field I understand [inaudible] new routes like National you know but I would also expect some reasonable tailwinds from integrating AirTran.
I'm not looking for an absolute guide but is there a particular point in 2015 where you start to normalize and you would expect your RASM trends to start moving a little bit closer to the A4A domestic average? Well we are going to see really the increases that we've gone through in stage length and gauge and that's going to continue here in 2015.
I think that's one of the that's not going to change here in 2015.
So I think really kind of getting out beyond 2015 which of course a lot of that largely depends on what our plans are at that point in time.
But yes we would expect our -- I think the best is to point you back to the percentage of our markets that are in development.
I really think that's the key is how quickly are those going to develop.
So I do think that we should see a pick up as those development markets continue to improve.
So and as we said or I think we said in the past is that those are developing very rapidly and so we're actually seeing our development markets reach maturity here more recently in call it a year historically it could take up to three years.
So to your point if we see that trend continue here in 2015 I think that's reasonable.
I think there might be some pick up but I would really attribute it to the development markets.
And Gary a follow-up to Helane's question particularly as it relates to the pilots.
We know what the new rates are or at least they are out for ratification at American obviously.
We know what is implies in terms of the pressure on Delta's next contract.
It seems to me that the longer it takes at Southwest the potentially more expensive the contract ultimately becomes or is this a naive way for me to think about things? And obviously feel free to insult me we've known each other a long time.
Well no first of all on your previous question by the way I agree with you that as time goes by we ought to continue to see a better performance by the developing markets.
You have a large increase in flying in late 2014.
So Tammy to me it's late this year before we should expect to begin to see a remarkable improvement and expect maybe too strong a word there.
Well the labor question is really it's a fair one but the fact of the matter is it is a negotiation and the circumstances change and that can change the color of negotiations but the main thing -- and I'll just repeat our two goals.
Our two goals are to continue to reward our employees who have been very handsomely rewarded with by far the best job security in the industry for a long period of time.
So that is an objective and I'm grateful that we’ve an opportunity to do that.
Number two is we must keep Southwest Airlines competitive and this is now an involved environment where our legacy competitors are stronger than ever and it's more important for us than ever to maintain our low cost position and preserve our low fare brand.
So that has been under attack as the other airlines have gone through bankruptcy.
I just point that out again just to reiterate that that's as much a component of the current environment as anything else and if it takes time to get the right contract negotiated for the parties it takes time.
So we're determined to do the right thing by our people and by the company and my hope is that we can get that done this year.
We'll take our next question from Tom Kim with Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to ask just going back to your Analyst Day you talked about striving for cost leadership which obviously to us is certainly the right way to approach things.
I'm wondering is that implicitly suggesting that you're aiming for margin leadership? And then just along those lines of thinking I'm wondering like how do you benchmark your financial performance versus your peers? And I guess just given the fact that you’re going to be going towards cost leadership which should imply that you're going to be hitting topping your best pre-tax margin the way back in the 90s this year just given where things are with fuel and pricing discipline.
So I'm wondering like how important for you is it to be the most profitable airline? And then in that vein will you be thinking would it be looking at margin as the sort of key metric to be focusing on or would it be the pre-tax ROIC? I just would love to understand like how you're thinking about how you're really sort of comparing yourself to your peers and how important it is for you to be the margin leader in the industry? Thanks.
Well and Tammy you should chime in too.
I think that we can achieve both and in fact I think this is one of those industries in particular where low cost equals superior financial performance.
So it is critically important that we strive to be the low cost producer.
That's who we are that's who we have been for 44 years and we cannot give up on that objective and we won't give up on that objective.
The way to measure the financial performance is return on invested capital.
We do it pre-tax for various reasons.
It doesn't matter whether it's pre or after and all that can be normalized but the P&amp;L margins can be a little bit misleading.
So between carriers between years that was the point I was making earlier.
We're in a better competitive position with lower energy cost and I'm glad that that's where we are because that helps us dramatically but it would be -- so yes I do think it's important for us to have as a goal to have the best return on capital of all of our peers.
And then if I could just switch gears and Tammy maybe a bit more specific with regard to the strategy behind fuel hedging.
I'm just wondering at what point do you think it would make sense to maybe revisit the '16 - '17 fuel hedging positions? Obviously you took a view on '15 and certainly then very positive.
I'm wondering with regard to the '16 - '17 positions is it possible as the year progresses that you could be or we could be looking at those hedges also being unwound too? Thank you.
Yes we’ve been just to be clear we've been very aggressively managing our entire portfolio.
So we're focused on it in the entirety and we provided the hedge percentages in the earnings release.
2016.
We just have a 10% hedge position now and 2017 about 30%.
So I think the numbers we reported previously were in the 40% range.
And then we did have a small sliver out in 2018 and we've actually unwound that as well.
So we are looking at our whole portfolio and we do that every day.
So we will continue to manage that going forward.
We have time for one more question and we'll take our last question from William Greene Morgan Stanley.
I had a question for you Gary on how you think about what it means to exceed the hurdle rate on ROIC because you're nicely above it.
Your goal is to be most profitable as defined by that in the industry as you mentioned so what does that mean? So does that mean you should be revisiting your growth rate assumptions or does it mean you should target bigger payouts to shareholders or what does this actually mean now that you're exceeding it? Well I think that you've hit on the key questions.
I don't think we have anything new to report today.
First of all it's just been September since we've had this change and I'm not predicting it but for all I know we'll be back to at $100 here in three quarters.
There are some that are out there predicting that.
So we just need to make sure that we have a sensible view of what the future offers first of all.
And then I think once we get comfortable with that we can decide what we -- again high quality problem we can decide what we want to do with that excess cash.
Tammy I don't know if you have anything that you want to add but those would be logical considerations and right now we're not thinking that we're going to make any dramatic change to any of our plans that we've laid out for you all.
I agree Gary.
I think we need to see some consistency.
It's only been a few months and so -- but we'll obviously carefully and thoughtfully evaluate all of our options but really nothing more to add.
And we'll do those what if scenarios too.
Now the other thing I would quickly add is that yes 2014 we are above our target.
We didn't meet our target for 13 years so this is a long term game and we do want to hit our target over a long period of time.
So another answer to your question is yes I know it was above our target and by the way we've got some catching up to do here.
So we'll want to sustain these very strong returns on capital for as long as we possibly can because we've got some catching up to do.
Let me ask you one other question.
When I used to look at the industry I would often talk to you about the fact that you had referred to Southwest Airlines as a growth company and now that the industry structure has changed quite a bit and you're talking about sort of limited ability to sort of change your near term plans here and what not which is all good news what does it mean to be a growth company? Is that still how you think of Southwest and how do you define growth if so? I think we're very much still a growth company.
What is fun for us Bill and again we haven't talked in a while but we have in really a four year period of time changed the opportunity set dramatically.
So we have tremendous opportunities to add destinations add non-stop destinations within the 48 states add frequencies within the 48 states destinations that of course are a vast majority are outside of the 48 states.
But we have tremendous opportunities to grow but as with any company we grow only if we bring a competitive advantage to that opportunity.
Lower fares lower costs better service whatever it might be.
So I think that that's a very material aspect about the way we think about our growth.
So I think that we can grow.
I think that we can grow every year in this kind of an environment as long as we are a low cost producer with great service and in 2010 we had kind of run out of growth opportunities.
In 2015 we have a tremendous amount of growth opportunities and it's very exciting.
That doesn't mean that we're going to grow 10% a year.
We won't we're going to grow at an amount that we think is sensible for us given our balance sheet given our free cash flow given our relative competitive position.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to Ms.
Brand for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Matthew and thank you again to everyone for joining us today and please feel free to call this afternoon if you have any follow-up questions.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen we'll now begin with our media portion of today's call.
I would like to first introduce Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President Communications and Outreach.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you Matthew.
We would be happy to entertain your questions at this time so if you would Matthew give everyone the prompt on how they can queue up for questions we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions].
We'll take our first question from Terry Maxon with the Dallas Morning News.
Good afternoon.
I have of course Dallas Love Field questions.
You have 153 daily departures weekday departures there now.
Do you see that increasing during 2015 with the load factors you're getting or is there room to grow at Dallas Love Field? Well we're at the point where we need more than 16 gates so we do have a use agreement with United that allows us access to a 17th gate to support this level of flight activity.
So hopefully we can add some more flights but I'm not willing to commit to that yet.
So the operation we're happy with we're real busy load factors are where they need to be and love to be able to have more capacity at the airport obviously within the 20 gates.
So we're working on that.
Your parking has been constrained at Love Field.
Has that -- do you believe affected your bookings your traffic or even though it's very tight it hasn't reduced your amount of traffic? Terry are you talking about customer parking? Automobile parking yes.
Yes that's a rare issue.
It's certainly at peak times over the Thanksgiving holiday it was an issue but the city said they are building a parking garage.
We're in supportive of that and again that’s a function of growth.
We're used to that around the system and in the meantime I think parking is fine.
I don't see that that's limiting us at all.
We'll take our next question from Jack Nicas with the Wall Street Journal.
Some investors have speculated and feared in some cases that the windfall from cheaper fuel would lead to airlines to add capacity and lower fares.
So would your potential $1.7 billion in fuel savings this year change your thinking at all on pricing going forward particularly in some of your newer and/or more competitive markets? That's an easy answer because I can't really tell you anything about our future pricing plans.
I wouldn't want to tip off our competitors and it's also against the law so I can't really speak to that.
With respect to our capacity plans again I think we've been very clear this morning to say that we're really not changing our business plan for 2015 with respect to those kinds of topics.
I'm sure when we get to this fall if we are convinced that we're in for a low energy prices for a while we'll revisit 2016 2017 opportunities.
But even with that I don't think that we will want to do anything that is materially different than the plans we've already laid out.
So yes we might grow a little bit more after this year if we are so fortunate that we end up with more cash than we had planned we'll consider the alternatives that we have to put that cash to good use.
A quick follow-up if the U.S.
and Cuba agreed to allow scheduled service between the countries again are you interested serving Cuba? Yes but again we have almost 50 possible international destinations well including Hawaii and Alaska so not all international but we have 50 possible destinations beyond the 48 so that will just be one more and it will have to compete for a priority for us.
But it's something that obviously is intriguing and something that we'll look at but we've got a lot of those intriguing opportunities.
We'll go next to Mary Schlangenstein with Bloomberg.
I just wanted to ask quickly was there a price or cost to unwinding your hedges and if so can you talk to us about some of the details? Yes I guess the answer to that is yes and we've incorporated that.
We had here in the fourth quarter we actually ended up with a $0.03 loss here in the fourth quarter per gallon but we actually started unwinding those positions earlier in the quarter which actually minimized the loss that we took here in the fourth quarter.
Our 2015 we've been participating in the majority of the market decline but yes there was a penalty in terms of unwinding those hedges.
It's probably averaging somewhere to about $0.20 for the full year and we reported to you our first quarter guidance which included about a $0.10 locked in loss if you will and it's about $0.20 on average for the full year.
And then Mary within that yes there is a transaction cost depending on the technique that Tammy's group uses to trade.
So that's all embedded in those numbers that she gave you.
Yes and Mary just to point you to in our other non-operating costs the premiums that we pay for our protection are below the line.
So the -- you can use our first quarter I can't remember if we provided that but that's somewhere in the $25 million to $30 million range and that's probably a good indicator for what it's going to be by quarter for the rest of the year as well.
We have time for one more question and we'll take our last question from Jeffrey Dastin with Thomson Reuters.
So I take it from this discussion that Southwest is not considering locking in today's low prices with new hedges? Correct.
I think it's -- and first of all the futures prices are not today's price.
So we can't get $45 in 2016 or 2017 it is much higher than that.
Second based on this dramatic collapse in just four months to five months' time it's anybody's speculation as to what prices will be over the next 6 to 24 months and we don't speculate.
So we'll look for opportunities to hedge understanding that in an environment like this the hedging is very expensive.
So on the other hand I think the distance between where we are and catastrophe is quite large and so I do think we'll have very nice opportunities to layer in some catastrophic protection at a reasonable cost and our folks obviously will be looking for those opportunities.
But in terms of just answering your question about locking in these prices people were saying as prices were collapsing well it won't go below $80 and then it won't go below $70 and then it won't go below $60 and here we are at $45 so there are those that are calling for $35 oil.
So you would hate to lock in at $70 in 2017 and end up paying a really healthy penalty for that.
So now is not the time for a company like Southwest to speculate.
Definitely.
And just to clarify catastrophic protection would be against the upside? Yes sir.
So this is a perfect scenario for hedging given where we were prices decline as Tammy reported earlier we'll save $1.7 billion based on current prices in 2015 compared to what we spent in 2014 if I said that accurately.
You said it accurately -- and just it reminded me going back to Mary's question the estimated loss from the unwind of our hedge for 2015 is reflected in that $1.7 billion.
So I just wanted to clarify that.
So we save a ton of money when prices fall and what we need with hedging is to prevent us from having to pay prices that put us out of business with i.e.
rising prices and that's exactly -- that hedging worked perfectly.
So we protected against higher prices in 2015 and in fact ended up with significantly lower prices.
So that's great.
And just to add on and based on what we've done so far in 2016 and 2017 again where prices are today we're participating in the majority of that decline.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to Ms.
Rutherford for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks a lot Matthew.
Of course if any of you need further assistance you can reach one of our spokes people at 214-792-4847 or via the media website at swamedia.com.
Everyone have a great afternoon.
That does conclude today's call.
Thank you for joining.
Thank you Matthew.
You're welcome sir.
Thank you.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines First Quarter 2015 conference call.
My name is Matt and I'll be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
During the call today we have Gary Kelly Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer; Michael Van De Ven Executive Vice President &amp; Chief Operating Officer; Ron Ricks Executive Vice President and Chief Legal &amp; Regulatory Officer; and Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please note today’s call will include forward-looking statements.
Because these statements are based on the Company’s current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please reference this morning’s press release in Investor Relations section at southwest.com for further information regarding the forward-looking statements and a reconciliation of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
At this time I will go ahead and turn the call over to Mr.
Kelly for opening remarks.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much Matt and thanks everybody for joining us for our first quarter earnings call.
It was a great first quarter.
I want to start by congratulating our Southwest employees for these exceptional results.
Southwest is doing well because of their hard work and their perseverance and their outstanding customer service.
And I'm delighted to report that each employee earned their share of a total $125 million profit sharing related to our first quarter profits and it’s far greater than any prior first quarter in our history.
And of course lower fuel prices were a big part of the first quarter story.
Our economic fuel price per gallon was down 35% to $2 a gallon year-over-year and that alone contributed over $450 million in fuel cost savings.
15% of every fuel dollar savings dollar goes to our employees.
So again a very very big thank you to our Southwest family.
But besides lower fuel prices there is a lot more to the story and a lot to be pleased with.
Our unit revenues were flat while our core unit cost that is excluding fuel special items and profit sharing were down 3.6%.
So even if fuel prices had remained constant our earnings would have been up roughly 80%.
So we're beginning to more fully realize the benefit of our strategic initiatives and that is the AirTran merger the 737-800 our fleet modernization efforts and our renewed frequent flyer plan.
We are also seeing more fully the benefits from our aggressive route schedule optimization over the last five years.
And these results are really strong despite our renewed low cost capacity growth but the unusually high percentage of routes that are in development.
And that's primarily a function of AirTran integration but we also have capacity added strategically to Dallas Love Field Washington Reagan and New York LaGuardia.
So given all that we are intentionally growing new markets which are mostly newer international at a slow and measured pace.
We want to carefully manage our future capacity growth continue our revenue momentum and continue to hit our return on capital targets and reward shareholders.
So our focus for the near-term will be on the basics and that is operational reliability hospitable customer service manageable capacity growth and healthy shareholder returns.
Our top event for this year is the completion of a construction of the Houston International Terminal and the launch of international flights in October of this year to six non-stop Latin American destinations.
This year we have a larger than normal increase in flying as we increase the utilization of our roughly 700 aircraft fleet from a low 88% to a more normal 93% by year’s end and that is aircraft that are scheduled to be in service out of our total fleet.
Now that's the equivalent of about 40 airplanes from January to December.
So next year we'll be back to a more normal fleet growth of approximately 2%.
Of course next year we’ll also get the full year benefit of this year's increase and return to our normal historical utilization rates.
The cost penalty of underutilizing the fleet essentially disappears by year-end.
I'm very pleased with the performance of our strategic initiatives; I'm very pleased with our current performance; I'm very excited about our future plans; and I hope that lower stable energy prices are here to stay.
But all-in-all a fantastic quarter.
And with that I will turn it over to Tammy Romo our CFO to take us through all this good news.
Thanks Gary and thanks to every one for joining us.
We are absolutely thrilled to report on our tremendous first quarter results today.
Net income excluding special items was a first quarter records $451 million or $0.66 per share which was by far the best first quarter in our history.
It was only $34 million shy of being an all-time quarterly record and even surpass our annual 2012 and 2013 profits which is just a tremendous performance.
First quarter GAAP net income was slightly higher at $453 million.
Our strong first quarter results were driven by another quarter of record revenues substantially lower fuel prices and our continued focus on our non-fuel cost of particularly our fleet modernization efforts.
Our operating income ex-special items was also a first quarter record at $770 millions and we expanded our operating margin by more than a 1000 basis points to 17.4%.
Our pretax return on invested capitals excluding special items for the 12 months ended March 31st was an exceptional 25.6% or 16.1% on an after tax basis.
So congratulations to all our wonderful employees for these exceptional first quarter results which march our eight quarter of consecutive record profitability.
Turning to revenues we were very pleased to report another record performance there as well.
Our first quarter operating revenues increased 6% year-over-year to $4.4 billion driven largely by record passenger revenues of $4.2 billion.
Overall we are very pleased with the revenue strength across our networks especially considering 22% of our network was underdevelopment which is substantial.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our new Dallas; Washington Reagan and LaGuardia service and international also continues to do well and meet or exceed our expectations.
And our Rapid Rewards program continues to contribute significantly with nearly $100 million incremental revenue year-over-year in the first quarter.
We are very pleased with the performance of our frequent flyer program and continue to seek opportunities to drive additional returns from it as well.
On a unit basis our total operating revenues grew in line with our 6% increase year-over-year in capacity as we guided which resulted in a first quarter record passenger unit revenue performance.
While our revenue yields declined just slightly our strong demand for low fares resulted in record traffic and load factors on 1% fewer trips year-over-year.
Our unit revenue performance was outstanding especially when you consider the roughly 4 % increase in stage length and 2.6% increase in seats per trip both compared to first quarter last year which combined was estimated to impact unit revenues by two to three points which of course more than offset by favorable benefit to a unit cost.
And as I mentioned before we had a significant portion of our first quarter capacity under development with more than half of markets converted from AirTran.
Thus far in April we're placed with the continuation of solid revenue and booking trends which are trending in line with normal sequential trends.
And based on these trends we expect strong passenger revenue growth in April and on approximately 6% to 7% year-over-year ASM growth.
We currently expect April PRASM passenger revenue per available seat mile to decline 2% year-over-year.
Keep in mind year-over-year unit revenue comparisons for second quarter will be more challenging than third due to the 7% versus 6% year-over-year ASM growth with second quarter stage length estimated to increase little over 4% and gauge to increase over 2% both year-over-year.
And as a reminder we have a significant spoilage adjustments in second quarter ‘14 when normalized across resulted in year-over-year PRASM trends 9% for April; 10% from May last year and up 8% for June.
We are also pleased with our freight and other revenue.
Our award winning cargo team recently recognized by Air Cargo World for the sixth consecutive year .They produced a double-digit increase in freight revenues in first quarter.
We currently expect second quarter’s 2015 freight revenues to increase slightly from first quarter 2015.
Other revenues declined slightly year-over-year from the elimination of AirTran fees with the integration completed in December last year.
And this was largely offset by a strong performance in certain ancillary revenues such as EarlyBird Check-In and A1 through a 15 upgraded boarding positions sold at a gate.
Our EarlyBird revenues increased 25% year-over-year to $68 million and other ancillary revenues were approximately $40 million.
We expect second quarter 2015 other revenues to increase from first quarter level but decline year-over-year.
Turning to our cost performance our first quarter unit cost excluding special items decreased 12.4% on a year-over-year basis largely due to lower fuel prices as well as ongoing cost control efforts.
Our first quarter economic jet fuel price per gallon declined 35% year-over-year to $2 which resulted in over $450 million in fuel savings in just first quarter.
Based on our hedge position and market prices as of last Thursday we expect our second quarter fuel price per gallon to also be approximately $2 which is significantly below second quarter 2014’s $3.02.
And we currently estimate year-over-year fuel cost savings for full year 2015 to approach $1.4 billion based on current market prices.
Excluding special items in fuel our unit costs were comparable to first quarter last year and this does include over 100% increase in profit sharing and 401(k) Savings Plan's expense just over $200 million compared with $99 million in first quarter last year.
Excluding profit sharing and special items our non-fuel unit cost decreased 3.6% year-over-year which reflects the benefit of our fleet modernization.
Maintenance unit cost in particular declined 30% year-over-year primarily due to the retirement of the 717 fleet.
But based on our current cost trends we expect second quarter 2015 unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to decrease year-over-year in the 1% to 2% range as compared with second quarter 2014 7.776.
And for full year 2015 unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit sharing they are estimated to decrease approximately 2% year-over-year which is slightly better than our previous guidance.
So moving to our balance sheet and cash flow.
We ended the quarter with $3.4 billion in cash and short-term investments and we also have our $1 billion revolving credit line fully available.
We continue to generate tremendous free cash flows which allows us to make prudent investments in the business while returning value to our shareholders.
Our first quarter operating cash flows grew 30% year-over-year to $1.45 billion which exceeded our CapEx of $573 million and assets constructed for others a net of reimbursement of $20 million to result in first quarter free cash flow of $859 million.
We returned $381 million to our shareholders during first quarter through $300 million in share repurchases and $81 million in dividend payments.
We have $80 million remaining under our $1 billion share repurchase authorization which we intend to complete next month.
We also repaid $51 million in debt and capital lease obligations during first quarter and we intend to repay an additional $133 million during the remainder of 2015.
Our balance sheet is strong with leverage including off balance sheet aircraft leases up 34% as of the end of the quarter and we remain the only investment grade U.S.
airline by all three credit agencies.
For 2015 we continue to expect to our cap spending to fall in the $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion range excluding our assets constructed for others which is estimated to be in the $50 million to $100 million range net.
We continue to carefully manage our invested capital which we've reduced by $1.3 billion since 2012.
Overall we remain very pleased with the consistent strength of our balance sheet and strong cash flow generation which allows us to maintain a balanced approach to cap deployment which includes the ability to reach our significant value back to our shareholders our employees and customers alike.
And that brings me to a quick recap of our first quarter 2015 fleet activity.
We ended the quarter with 679 aircrafts in our fleet.
We took delivery of seven dash 800s from Boeing and eight pre-owned dash 700s and we retired one dash 500s.
We have transitioned a 63 717s to Delta which brings us to 25 remaining that we will be transitioned to Delta by the end of this year.
All 52 AirTran dash 700s are converted to the Southwest livery with last five completed during first quarter.
We continue to manage to baseline of roughly 700 aircraft by the end of this year and we expect our second quarter 2015 ASMs to increase year-over-year approximately 7%.
And our full year 2015 capacity growth remains on pace to also increase 7% year-over-year target again largely on Dallas with the smaller portion on Washington Reagan LaGuardia and international.
The response to our new markets has been very gratifying and our development markets continue to perform at or ahead of expectation.
Also keep in mind there will be a carryover impact of our 2015 ASM growth into 2016.
The full year effect of 2015's expansion is estimated to increase 2016 ASMs by 5% year-over-year.
We expect any further 2016 growth above that to be modest.
And we expect our 2016 year-over-year fleet growth to be approximately 2%.
So in conclusion I'd like to once again thank our 47 000 employees for their tremendous efforts and congratulating them on exceptional first quarter performance which is a strong start to what is shaping up to be just a spectacular year.
Our revenue and booking trends remain strong thus far into second quarter and our cost performance was solid.
We are continuing to benefit from substantially lower year-over-year jet fuel prices and our ongoing cost control efforts are also delivering results.
We have a low cost structure and we will continue our rigorous efforts to improve efficiency.
We have a strong financial foundation and strong cash flow and we remain focused on prudent capital allocation.
We are reinvesting in our business with the focus on generating strong returns and we have continued our aggressive management of our invested capital through share repurchases and cash dividend.
Coming off a record 2014 we’re delighted with the strong start to this year.
And based on current trends we expect another record performance profit performance in second quarter.
And with that overview Matt we’re ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We will now begin with our first question from Julie Yates with Credit Suisse.
Gary thanks for the color on the 2016 capacity.
How should we think about the mix between domestic and international as we assume a mid-single-digit growth rate next year? Would it be roughly half and half or how should we think about that? Well I think at least the way I'm thinking about it I’ll get Tammy to cleanup anything I mess up here.
You’ve got this carryover effect of year-over-year growth in 2016 based on the increased flying activity that we have taking place in 2015.
And as an illustration we’re really not adding any new flights that I recall at least in Washington Reagan in 2015 but yet the -- since that was really done in the latter half of 2014 Reagan is showing up is a fairly significant impact on our growth rate here in 2015.
So you will have those kinds of things flowing through 2016.
Just isolating the new part the new flying that we will be adding in 2016 it is roughly split between domestic and international.
So we will be adding flights late this year of course in Houston.
Tammy I want to say that next year we’re looking at roughly one point of additional flying for international that would be on top of the full year effect of what you would be saying added to Houston later on this year.
So in total it will be very -- I don't know the exact number off the top of my head but it’d be some kind of low single-digits and then on top of that we will have some additional domestic flying that we will add next year.
But pretty modest incremental growth planned for 2016 above the running rate that’s established here in 2015.
And then Tammy one for you when we think about the down 2% unit revenue guidance for April are the headwinds that you called out the tough compare stage and gauge and spoilage.
Are those the extent of the headwinds or are you seeing fair compression increases in competitive capacity as some other carries have mentioned that are pressuring unit revenues as well? Julie I would say that our pressure on unit revenues is exactly what you said is largely driven from stage and gauge and of course just a large percentage of our network under development.
So that we always have some movement in competitive capacity but the majority of that pressure is driven from just longer haul flying and increased gauge.
Obviously the timing of Easter is always a little tricky in these trends and comps.
So we've taken all that into account.
If you will just compare I think just our trend argument comparing second quarter to first quarter the trend looks very normal.
And that is again taking into account the holiday timing.
But we feel like everything is looking good and as Tammy has been very clear in pointing out we have lot of developing markets that we are staying on top of and carefully managing and our hope of course is that those continue to improve over time.
I can’t guarantee that but we are very pleased with the developing markets progress that we’ve seen so far.
Directionally how do you expect May and June to trend relative to April on a year-on-year basis? Well we gave you the guidance I guess I’ve shared with you already the -- when you just look at the comparisons last year April was up about 9%; May was up about 10%; and June was up a little bit less about 8%.
So not too much is there the across the months in terms of comparisons relative to last year.
We’ll go next to Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
I'm not sure if Bob Jordan is on the line or this is a question for Gary.
But as we think about IT how much is IT holding you guys back from implementing things that you think your customers want? Whether that's an unbundled more of an unbundled product or not or maybe things that help optimize returns without feeling you're taking something away from your customers.
If I could maybe get you to sort of think about it on a scale of 1 to 10 right now in terms of where you are in the investment horizon as it relates to specifically IT I'd love to hear your thoughts on that.
Hunter Bob he’s here.
So certainly want Bob and Mike may want to chime in as well.
But we’re all impatient and have opportunities that are before us that we would love to be able to capitalize on.
We have operational improvements that we’re very desirous of and we’ve got customer experience improvement.
So it really covers all three categories financial; service; and operations.
I think what is exciting is we know that we’ve got opportunities to continue to invest that will generate very handsome returns.
I am a little reluctant to put a number on it.
I’ll defer to Bob and Mike to see if there is something they want to share there but the headline of course is a new reservation system which comes with enhanced capabilities that really address all three of those objectives and we have been forthcoming that we think that’s worth a lot of money some things fall into revenue management techniques which we for competitive reasons we leave that as a rather vague headline.
But I think we’re very happy with our product; I think we’re happy with our customer experience; I don’t see that there is anything that is dramatic it's being held back from what we’re doing.
I will fully admit that a new revenue reservation system will come with capabilities that will explore whether it's code sharing or whether it's signing seats and things like that.
But we’re not at this point committed to making any of those kinds of changes yet either.
So I feel like we’re doing really good.
And clearly what I hope to communicate here is absolutely we know there is returns on investment as we continue to invest in IT.
I think I’d say the same thing; there is always more technology work to do than you can do in a year.
If you can may waive the magic wand there would be things we would do I think tomorrow.
But I think we have a really good program as we have very measured implementations across ‘15 ‘16 ‘17; biggest of course is the new reservation platform.
The other thing is the big initiatives that are contributing a lot right now fleet modernization; network optimization maturing the markets; the big contribution from the Rapid Rewards program.
None of those items are being held up by IT at all.
So the things that are really contributing so actually Rapid Rewards they are not burden a lack of IT investment in fact most of that’s behind us.
As Gary mentioned we’ve got big things that will contribute coming on as we -- especially as we get the new reservation system in place.
So more robust fare rules more robust access to some ancillary items some continued O&amp;D revenue management improvement some of that’s already in place.
So I think another way to look at that is we’ve got items that will contribute across the next three to five years as we implement technology.
So I think we’ll see a continued boost as we bring those online as well.
But there are always things you should love to do but I feel really good about where we are especially with the things that are contributing again and are not dependent on IT at this point.
Thank you Bob.
And a question again for Gary here is you guys have made comments in the last couple years about keeping your growth roughly in line with GDP.
But 7% this year even if you look at that on a seat basis we'll say it's up four and then next year you're going to have probably be a little bit above GDP as well.
So I understand you guys are earning your cost of capital and things are going real well for you but why is the growth at Love Field and Reagan incremental? And why is it not replacing underperforming routes which would make your growth opportunities still exciting in new markets and whatnot but it would make the overall growth rate maybe a little bit less disruptive from an overall capacity growth perspective? Where is that growth that goes away in the event that fuel goes back up again? Well I think we’re not -- we haven’t changed our high level growth plans over the last six months.
So in other words the change in fuel prices has not had an impact at least that’s material on our plans.
Said it different way we're continuing to think about the future with our higher fuel cost assumption which just speaking for Southwest I think that’s wise one would hate to order whole bunch of airplanes only to find that fuel prices have gone the wrong way.
So that’s point number one.
The rule of thumb is to try to guess what traffic growth is going to be.
The best proxy we've got of that is GDP.
And right now we’re growing ahead of that Hunter because we can’t ;and we've got right opportunities that we have been investing in to create over the last five years and now we want to take advantage of them.
The other point is that we have 700 airplanes.
And we don't want to downsize the airline.
So the fact of the matter is that the airline has been underutilizing its fleet for the past several years now we've wonderful opportunities to improve our unit cost production and profitably deploy additional flying.
I will just point out here in the first quarter we added seats to the tune of about 1.6% and our O&amp;Ds not RPMs; our O&amp;Ds were up 5.7%.
So as long as we can continue to match or outpace our seat growth I think that’s the main thing.
If we find that we’re not able to do that well then we’ll start turning dial so that we can adjust.
And the increment to the fleet that we’re planning for 2016 right now and that’s a little p plan is quite modest for next year.
So what I would expect -- what I'm assuming let me say it that way right now for growth 2015 2016 2017 is that the peak in the growth rate is here in 2015 and it begins to diminish next year and then it diminishes growth rate-wise again in 2017.
So we try to explain why we’re little bit over indexing on the growth this year and it does feel like it will revert to the mean here in future years.
We will go next to Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore ISI.
Just on the used aircraft side and the dash 700s that you've been adding can you just refresh our memory a little bit about how many you're adding this year how the retirement schedule has changed and really how you think about the economics of used aircraft versus new aircraft right now? If you look at our order book with Boeing here for 2015 we have 19 firms and 17 dash 700s in the pre-owned market and we’re managing to that 700 fleet count.
So we are -- and as you know that we have 88 717s that we’re essentially replacing from AirTran.
So that we’re using a combination of new aircraft and aircraft from the pre-owned market.
And really at this point the economics on the pre-owned we've been able to augment orders from Boeing to fulfill our aircraft need.
So as we look ahead we will continue to do just what makes sense overall to drive the best economics there.
Beyond that and at least what we have we’re still working through our fleet plans.
But for 2016 we have 31 firm orders with Boeing and right now four pre-owned aircraft from Boeing.
So we’re just -- we’re looking at essentially -- we’re just using a combination to meet our needs here in 2015 but obviously looking for the best economics for Southwest.
Just a follow-up there if you had to guess which one would change for 2016 the 31 firm or the four pre-owned it seems like the four probably would move higher if things stay about where they are? The pre-owned market we have plenty of opportunity there to supplement our needs.
So I think that's a reasonable assumption.
And we've got a large number of potential retirements next year as well.
So there we have -- obviously we have some flexibility with the timing of the retirements.
So I think we've made this point over the last year.
We've got more fleet flexibility today than I think we’ve had in our history.
So it's we're just trying to do our best to optimize the financial and operational performance to the extent that we have alternatives with the fleet choices.
And then just for my second question on the other revenue line I think you guided to about a 9% decline in the first quarter and it came in roughly down 1% and just wonder if you could give us more detail maybe we're getting beyond some of the loss of the AirTran fees that you’re not going to lose going forward.
Why wouldn't other revenue be kind of more firm relative to the trend that we've seen over the last couple of years? Yes I think that we have -- our first quarter our ancillary revenues that really came in strong and offset essentially the loss that we're seeing from the lost fees from Air Trans.
So we were really pleased with those trends.
So I agree with you I think that that we would expect those trends to continue to firm.
We go next to Jamie Baker with J.P.
Morgan.
Gary a question on consolidation; I'm trying to find a common denominator behind the deals that you've done or tried to do in the past.
So you've got Muse Frontier and I guess maybe we could include ATA those were all struggling competitors.
Morris struck me at the time as mostly about aircraft.
And I don't AirTran might fall between those two examples that was likely influenced by what was going on at the industry level.
You may have different opinions.
What I'm getting at is what would influence your decision to turn to M&amp;A again; would you consider during an airline bull market or should we assume that Southwest's interest is only likely to be peaked if there is a competitor with its back against the wall.
Well I agree Jamie with your historical analysis there.
And I'm just going to talk hypothetically here just give you a tendency so a tendency would -- is very clear in a period where our organic growth opportunities are less either because of cost pressures or cost uncertainties or we just run out of geography.
Then I think you know any company would be wise to consider what other growth options it has and M&amp;As is one way to do that.
That’s certainly fit for us with the AirTran acquisition our organic growth opportunities were in need of some refreshing and through the acquisition of AirTran plus the other strategic initiatives that we embarked upon we changed that.
So the other thing that was attractive strategically about AirTran is the geography that it added.
It added us to rather it allowed us to accelerate our development of the 48 state route map and that of course is proven to be very successful.
And then to some degree it launched us in international I think the most important part of the international piece is it gave us real live experience in international markets for us to begin to formulate future plans.
So that sort of describes the kind of scenario that would -- that interested us in the past and I think would logically interest us again in the future.
Now what's different of course in 2015 than in 2010 when all that was going on is that now we have more places to go; more places to grow than we'd had probably at any given point in time in our history.
So I would fully admit that M&amp;A would be a distraction to pursuing our current growth opportunities and one would have to have a really good reason to be distracted.
I'm not suggesting that that couldn't be possible but it's certainly a lower priority as we think about all the things that we want to do today with our current system.
And a follow-up on the profit sharing topic yours is a simple formula that I believe has remained unchanged longer than the competition.
I'm actually trying to recall the last time you made any revisions you can help me out with that one but looking forward -- what was that? It was 1989.
Okay all right helpful; so clearly unchanged the longest.
Looking forward though is profit sharing a topic where you consider what the market is doing or does it fall more into that kind of Southwest marching to its own drum type category like other facets of your business model? Well it has to factor in what the external realities are.
So whether it's healthcare whether it's retirement whether it's salaries and wages everything has to be informed to some degree by the market.
We’ll go next to Savi Syth with Raymond James.
I just wanted to follow-up on one thing on the 2016 growth that I'm not clear on.
So is the 2% of fleet growth is that incremental to kind of the 5% of annualized growth that's coming from annualizing what you're introducing this year? And then also just kind of curious as you look to next year is the split between seat and stage going to be similar to what you saw this year? On the first question Savi yes the -- it's we’re talking about a base of 700 airplanes and along that base 2% would be 14.
So we’re talking about somewhere in the teens in terms of a net increase to the fleet with as Tammy has pointed out there is quite a few moving parts.
So this year we’ll get all of the 717s retired the 717s are on top of the reported numbers that you hear from us in financial reporting.
So you add roughly 25 airplanes that I call them -- in my mind they are still in the fleet.
They are just in the process of being retired but that’s not the way we reported to you.
But yes in any event we’re talking about more airplanes in 2016.
And now I talked long enough I forgot your second question.
The mix between stage length and fees.
Mix well that depends.
So what is in the press release today are from 700s.
We haven’t taken any 700 delivery from Boeing’s since 2011.
So we’re in the midst of making that choice.
So that -- if we switch that choice to 800s; well then obviously the gauge will continue to grow somewhat.
I don’t think it would be Tammy at the same rate that we’ve been seeing it grow.
This year you’ve got a pretty big swap out of 717s either for 700s or 800s depending on how you want to match all that up.
But you’ve got a pretty significant gauge effect in ‘15 so it should be less in 2016 if we convert those to 800s.
What is on the press release for the pre-owned are 700s for next year.
And I don’t -- we might pick up some pre-owned 800s but we’ve really been looking to replace our 300s with 700s.
And then the stage length piece of it again will be somewhat obviously dependent upon where we go but the odds are that we’ll continue to add longer than average trips you’ll get the full year effect of launching international service to Houston.
The Houston service is going to be longer haul by definition to Latin America.
So yes I think the stage continues to grow; the gauge continues to grow but probably at lesser rate than what you're experiencing right now.
And for my second question I wonder if you could talk a little bit more on how Dallas is progressing? And one question I had was I mean I know you've mentioned in the past that you're seeing 90% load factors there and I'm wondering does that signal that maybe you're leaving some revenue on the table by having such high load factors? Well they are coming down so Tammy you want to that? Sure yes we’re still seeing fantastic load factors out of Dallas and they are above system average load factors.
And what we have said before is we have some markets hitting 90%.
So yes so we’re very pleased with our Dallas performance; it continues to be very strong with very very substantial increases in traffic year-over-year.
Tammy I know in the past you mentioned maybe that's the market that matures faster.
How is that progressing versus other markets that you've entered into? Well I think if you look at our new markets I mean normally you would expect those can take years to two three sometimes even more years but certainly at least what the results we’re seeing thus far with our new markets suggest that yes we’ll have some our markets that would progress at a faster than normal rate.
And certainly Dallas will hopefully fall into that category.
So we’re monitoring all that very closely but so far as we said our new markets are meeting or exceeding our expectation.
So some will mature very quickly and there will probably be some that take a little bit longer but in the aggregate we’re very pleased that the rate in which those are progressing.
Dallas is unusual and you're right I mean it's developing very rapidly.
There are some city pairs that look more normal for a new market but that’s not the majority.
And I was asked by a reporter earlier this morning about Dallas because it’s such a raging success and we knew it would be.
In fact we were kind of surprise to some of the pundits that were saying that the Southwest effect was gone and oh no it's been a raging success and it has a 20 gate cap.
And it's very clear that the demand is much greater than 20 gates.
So we're very pleased with that service and very pleased with the new airport and we've got work to continue to do but now it is certainly the exception as for new growth.
And Savi just in terms of as you are thinking ahead as well.
So historically the development markets have been I would say 4% to 5% of the system.
And that is close to where we would expect to trend by 2016.
So we will have a heavy percentage of our markets; it will trend down here from the first quarter; I would guess it would be around 11% by the end of the year and then it would be more in line as we get into next year which is more normal percentage of development markets.
This somewhat ties in to Hunter's question too one might challenge why would you allow yourself to have a such large percentage in developing markets? Part of this again is just ingesting or integrating AirTran.
But there was also a confidence on our part that Dallas would perform well.
And said it different way while the 22% is a large percentage in development the quality of those -- the performance of those markets is certainly better than what would one would normally expect for a developing market as a whole.
Yes Savi I will share one other bit of information just again.
It really is a testament to how well our markets are performing.
If you adjust for stage length I guess just looking at unit revenues to drag on our first quarter results is under 1 point.
So again just very strong performance.
We will go next to Darryl Genovesi with UBS.
Tammy you had about a $500 million benefit on the cash flow statement in 2014 from deferred taxes.
I guess I was thinking we might see some of that start to reverse here.
Can you just give some color around what drove that? Is that related to new aircraft deliveries and accelerated depreciation for tax purposes or is it something else and what happens to that number in 2015? The big driver in our preferred taxes is exactly is depreciation -- accelerated depreciation related to our aircraft delivery.
And unless there is another extension of the bonus depreciation we would -- which we’re helpful for we got it this year; it's just again these are yearly extensions.
So if there is an extension we would expect our cash tax rate to converge closer to our book taxes.
And again that’s really driven by the bonus depreciation.
And then just on your comment regarding I think you said prudent capital allocation just trying to get some sense of maybe if you could give some more color on what that means? Because I think based on my numbers here I've got you covering your fixed charges by about 12 times or something at this point and just wondering if it kind of beyond the $130 million number that you said you still have for this year in terms of debt paydown is that kind of aided this point or is there kind of further debt paydown to go over the next couple of years? And how are you thinking about the potential to perhaps re-lever a little bit before interest rates might go back up? We do have a large bullet payments coming due in 2016 and 2017 and about $300 million in each year.
So yes that certainly will factor in.
And our balance sheet is in great shape; it’s just in terms of the guidepost we definitely want a strong balance sheet.
We want to maintain our investment grade quality.
So certainly we would want to manage our debt levels so that we’re maintaining our balance sheet strength.
Outside of that we just continued to aggressively manage our capital spending as you can see with our cap spending guidance that we have for the year we will continue -- that will continue to be a focus here as we move forward.
And then of course the lever that we have beyond that our share repurchases and our dividends.
And I think our past results here speak to the fact that we want to continue to return value to our shareholders.
So on the two debt maturities that you mentioned in 2016 and 2017 is the current view that you would cash settle those or that you would try to term them out? I would expect that we'd do some level of financing here over the next year or so but again we want to maintain fairly modest debt levels like we have today.
Yes but nothing early we wouldn't try to -- we've looked at all of that it’s just not economic to take any debt out beyond what we've already done.
Yes.
To Gary's point we've looked at that and we've already done what it makes sense to do.
We go next to Dan McKenzie with Buckingham Research.
The GBTA revised down its outlook for business travel spend this year so my question really is on that.
So first the Rapid Rewards program is of course evolved pretty dramatically over the past five years.
And I'm wondering if how you measure this the demand segment has evolved and then secondly you know what have you seen year-to-date and what are you seeing looking ahead.
So Dan you were kind of faint there so you just talking about business travel? Right.
Well I can't really tell that there's been a change in business travel personally.
And you're right it's tough to get a read on we have -- we try to triangulate that by multiple methods.
And there's a fairly wide variance between the methods but it looks to me like it’s stable.
You just look at our Rapid Rewards program it's been a phenomenal success.
So Tammy can cite numbers there but it all looks good to us.
And again you just look at the overall results you know what’s going on within our route network it's very aggressive and still we have really strong results.
We've got some exposure to the oil patch we've been paying very close attention to that and that all looks fine though -- pretty much all the way around it looks good.
We have a large exposure to leisure.
The near international Latin American expansion we have is very heavily weighted towards leisure.
So mix wise you might see a little bit of change because of that but we're not seeing a decline in our business travel same-store kind of levels if you will.
The only thing I’d add to that Gary is just -- we're very pleased with our corporate sales.
Those outpaced our capacity and we're up almost double-digit.
And I agree with you our business mix is still roughly a third of our passengers.
So considering again the mix of development markets and everything that we have going on in our network we're really pleased with the trends.
The frequent flyer you didn't specifically ask it this way but just as further empirical evidence for I guess your question the utilization of our frequent flyer program utilization of frequent flyer program card credit card just continues to outperform our expectations year-on-year.
And I'm just delighted with that program change the execution customer reaction the financial results that we have it's just gone really really well.
And I guess you know just following up on that and I'm going back a bit in time here but at Southwest Investor Day last November the view was that revenue could grow online with capacity as this year.
And as we stand here today Southwest has added some additional capacity and second quarter aside I'm wondering if you still feel that revenue for the year can still grow in line with the capacity adds or has the world changed.
Yes I'd be happy to comment on that one.
Our goal certainly hasn't changed that's not guidance of course but at least starting out here this year we feel really good about the trends and of course we're starting out with flat unit revenue.
I acknowledge we have added since Investor Day though I would point out that we have ticked up our capacity just a bit mainly for the two additional gates that we picked up at Love Field.
So our capacity's up about a percentage point.
So admittedly that puts a little more pressure on us to achieve that for the year.
So we'll just have to see how all that plays out but obviously what we're trying to do at the end of the day is manage to continue to strengthen in our earnings and in our margins.
We’re off to a good start.
And I would just -- we thought about it in multiple ways and just remind everybody that if you adjust for stage length and gauge in the first quarter it's a 3% almost a 3% effect.
So I think a lot of the answer to your question will be dependent upon just how much stage change and gauge change we ultimately realize because everybody's looking at static unit numbers.
So adjusted I feel like will grow unit revenues.
And to me that's the way I look at it.
Dallas Love Field Tammy I'm not sure what the stage length change is year-over-year with Dallas Love Field but you have to look at it because it's just such an obvious dramatic change in the distance of the flights.
But we're off to a great start here in the first quarter; we're dead on with capacity; I'm very very proud of our folks for pulling that off.
And they got a really tough comp in the second quarter.
And I think it's a little too soon to give you any real firm direction there.
We admit that's the goal and we're going to try to get there.
So so far so good.
Good commentary thanks.
I wonder if I could squeeze one more in.
Southwest has highlighted 60% as an average percent of free cash flow return to shareholders again at its Investor Day.
And as we look ahead I'm just wondering if that's still a good level to think about again as we look ahead here.
Did you say 60 I didn’t hear what your question was… Yes correct.
So at the Investor Day Southwest… I think what we said was more than 50 but yes I mean really no big difference no big change in our philosophy since Investor Day.
We have time for one more question.
We’ll take our last question from Helane Becker with Cowen and Company.
You guys had done a lot of work on the Evolve seating in the new aircraft and the reconfiguration and so on.
And then with the new aircraft I saw that you're going with a completely new redesigned seat.
So is that because the Evolve seat didn't measure up to expectations or is this more cost effective seat? How should we think about this new seat? I think it is the latter.
The Evolve seat is great.
We did not have B/E Aerospace seat; it was not on the market when we were looking for seats earlier.
I think Mike De Ven found a better seat.
Mike do you want to talk about the advantages of going to the new seat? Yes.
The seat is a redesigned seat.
There has been a lot in terms of seat technology over the last four or five years.
So the seat frames actually fit closer to the walls of the airplane that gives us almost the half an inch width in the seat because there is about an inch and half -- the seat's at about an inch and half closer to the walls.
In addition to all of that it creates a little bit more leg room for you as a result of that the way some of the seat frames are designed.
And on top of it all the seats are wider.
So it was just new seat technology.
It gave us better economics more comfort more personal space and it was just kind of no brainer to go to.
And you're launching this seat right Mike? Yes we're launching the seat and we’ll start rolling out on the fleet in mid 2016.
Just another opportunity to offer something new and improved.
And then just Gary I have one question for you with respect to your aircraft order the large customer for the MAXes and so on.
Have any of your -- have you thought about selling any of your delivery positions given how low fuel costs are? Mike would you like to speak to that? No we haven’t thought about selling any of our delivery positions.
In fact we’d like to have maybe not more positions but getting them sooner as we have them in our order book.
So we’re very excited about the airplane.
It gives us of course none of the fuel burn but it gives us greater range it gives is better performance with the airplane and I think it's going to give us more route flexibility than we have today.
That concludes the analyst portion of today’s call.
Thank you for joining.
Ladies and gentlemen we’ll now begin our media portion of today’s call.
I would like to first introduce Linda Rutherford Vice President of Communication &amp; Outreach.
Good day Matt and welcome to the members of the media who are on our call today.
We’re going to go ahead and get geared up to take some of your questions.
So Matt if you could give them some instructions on how to queue up we’ll get started.
[Operator Instructions].
We’ll now begin with our first question from Terry Maxon from The Dallas Morning News.
Let me start out with asking a left field question.
You've got Delta saying it needs continued space to do five flights a day and you've got the lawsuit going on in the District of Columbia.
What is your degree of confidence that you'll be able to operate the 180 flights as of whatever it is August 9 and not have to accommodate Delta? And what will you do if you have to accommodate Delta? Well we’re confident that we can execute on our flight schedule we would not have published it otherwise and we’ll just leave accommodation upto the owner of the airport the City of Dallas.
We’ll be fully utilizing our 18 gates that we have worked really hard over a long period of time to get up and running.
And obviously they’re very successful flights and customers are benefitting from more competition and lower fare.
So we’re very very pleased with where we are and looking forward to adding flights in August.
Does thatassume or not assume Delta is wiggling into your gates? We will be very busy in fully utilizing our 18 gates.
If I could ask follow-up question your FTEs increased nearly 2 000 year-over-year.
Where did that come from? Are you just staffing up at airports? Is there some transfer of part-times to FTEs or contract employees to FTEs? Where did such a large increase come from? Terry it’s pretty much of pure increase; in other words there is no shifting going on; it's operational.
We have some corporate increases for project related needs but the vast majority of the increase is with flight attendants primarily to serve the larger aircraft the 800s; it requires as you know a four flight attendant as compared to three on the other aircraft types.
And then we have seen a very welcome and very nice surge in traffic and in passengers.
And so our ground operations at the airports are also seeing staffing increases.
We want to make sure that our employees are in a great position to serve our customers.
We don't want to have excessive -- we don't have to rely on excessive amounts of overtime as an example and have some opportunities invest further in the operation and in customer service.
So it's really those two sources driving our headcount increases.
And we will go next to Andrea Ahles with the Fort Worth Star.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more in terms of Love Field.
You've talked about how successful it's been but can you break out is that more business travelers that you're seeing or is that leisure? Do you have any color you can give about the mix of passengers that you're seeing as you've increased flights at Love Field? Off the cuff I don't know that I can have a lot.
We obviously have some traditional business markets like New York and Washington that we’ve added.
And I would at least guess off the top of my head that we’re seeing a larger mix of business travelers there.
But Andrea I think it's just a natural mix of people flying for business and pleasure.
What our rule of thumb has been historically is the short-haul flights were more dominated by people traveling on business.
So I think these longer-haul flights that we’re having a probably more normal mix of roughly 40%ish plus or minus business and the balance being leisure would be my guess but I don't know.
Tammy I don't know if you have any more specific insight there? No I don't have specific numbers to give you.
But yes I would agree… I know the flights are full.
That I know.
I don’t think it will be far off from what our system numbers are.
I could just give you maybe a little more color just on Dallas.
We added a number of new markets on April the 8th and they were added with a much shorter booking window; we announced them later.
And even those markets and those 13 new flights are full.
So a lot of those are running over 90% load factors just like the overall Dallas mix again with a much shorter booking window.
And then Dallas in total was running a higher local mix so attracting the local Dallas customer so fewer connections.
So that really answers your business leisure question which I think and what Gary I think is probably more average given the longer-haul but it just demonstrates another point to demonstrate just the strengthened Dallas that we’re seeing with every new flight that we add.
But that would I think the inference is that might imply that it's more heavily weighted towards business.
I think so and then lot of the markets we've added are more typical business markets too and we’re seeing again 90 plus percent load factors in lot of those markets.
[Operator Instructions].
We go next to Jeffrey Dastin with Thomson Reuters.
Might Southwest accelerate the addition of international destinations so leisure travelers can take advantage of the stronger U.S.
dollar and more generally has the strong U.S.
dollar changed your international strategy at all? As usual Southwest is different.
So and the fundamental answer to your question the short answer is no.
I don't see us changing our plans at least right now; over time obviously we will continue to adjust our plans.
But all of our sales are dollar denominated.
So we’re not dealing with a foreign currency challenge in terms of the stronger dollar.
It might have some impact on people that are -- international demand if you will.
But we don't have any foreign currency challenges.
We are also flying to near international destinations so we’re flying to Mexico we’re flying to the Caribbean; we just launched service to our Costa Rica.
And again I think they are just less impacted by some of the issues that you raised.
For us these are -- we’re adding service to cities where -- we try to add them to cities where customers will know us.
Most of the traffic on these international flights are U.S.
citizens they're our customers already; we're giving them more product.
It is pretty I wouldn't call it easy but it's easier for us to penetrate those new markets.
As compared to launching service to a new country where we're dependent upon travelers from that country knowing who we are and booking on Southwest that's a much bigger challenge.
And then finally we're new at this.
So want to expand our international presence at a very measured pace for operational learnings and also to continue to support the other expansion that we already have underway which is number one converting former AirTran markets into Southwest in many cases that's new Southwest service; and then number two launching a lot of new service out of Dallas Love Field; number three flying the slots that we acquired from American Airlines.
So that's a lot to take on already.
And we're really augmenting that core growth if you will with some additional flying to international markets.
And we've been very pleased with how that's gone so far but we're going to walk there before we run and have no intention of changing our plans at this point.
Thank you and if I also may ask separately is Southwest looking to add to it its fuel hedge book now? Well I think yes we'll always want to continue to look for opportunities to improve our hedging program and philosophically it's an insurance program.
Prices have dropped; it just allows for us another opportunity to come back in with better insurance coverage than what we had before.
I would say that -- just using that analogy the insurance has gotten more expensive because we've already bought at once now we've got to unwind that and go in and buy it again.
But at least directionally that's exactly what Tammy and her team are thoughtful about.
I'll leave it up to Tammy to report any changes that she has to the program at this point I think we're pretty much up to date with what's reported in the press release.
That's right Gary.
And with no additional questions at this time I’d like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Rutherford for any additional or closing remarks.
Matt I just wanted to share based on feedback I've gotten from Linda this morning that there was some confusion perhaps that I created earlier with my comment about assigned seating.
I was simply offering up an example of the kinds of new capabilities that we’ll get with new technology just as color commentary.
We’ve looked at assigned seating very carefully before and dismissed that.
We could have built that capability on our own.
I was simply pointing out that we’ll have that in the future; it would make it easy for us to relook at that at some point in the future but we have absolutely no thought; no plans; no desire to assign seats whatsoever.
And with that I will turn it back over to Ms.
Rutherford now.
Thank you Gary.
The communications group is standing by if you all have any follow up questions.
The number to reach us is 214-792-4847 or you can certainly send an inquiry to SWA Media at wunco.com thanks so much everyone.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you for joining.
Please standby.
We're about to begin.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom.
Hello everyone.
And welcome to today's call to discuss our second quarter 2015 results.
On the call today we have Gary Kelly Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Senior Vice President of Finance and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer; Mike Van de Ven Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ron Ricks Executive Vice President and Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer.
Please note today's call will include forward-looking statements and because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
At this time I will turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thank you Marcy and thanks everyone for joining us for our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
We had an outstanding quarter.
We are looking forward to another strong revenue performance in the third quarter at least from our current perspective.
I want to start by paying tribute to [indiscernible] due which is to all of our 47 000 employees.
These are the terrific results.
They work very hard to deliver them.
They've also worked very hard to build Southwest Airlines and of course they work hard every day to serve our customers and each other.
They're superb and these results are test of that.
It's no secret that this was eagerly an all-time the quarterly record.
Last 12 months return on the invested capital is all above – a record.
You have to go all the way back to 1980 which was a 29.2% performance.
Fuel prices were down 33% to a little over $2 a gallon and of course that was a huge driver in our year-over-year earnings increase.
And we assume the fuel prices will continue to be moderate for at least the next several quarters and hopefully long after that.
Our revenue production was very solid and especially considering our softer economy than we were planning for and also considering the industry's growth and seats and our own 7% available seat mile growth.
Our traffic was strong.
We had a record load factors.
Our passengers grew 5.6% which outpaced easily our modest 2% seat growth.
Our unit revenue comparisons year-over-year is somewhat deceiving.
Our RASM declined 4.7% but a point of that is attributable to a year ago $47 million accounting estimate change.
In addition to that there was a 2.6% effect for increased stage length engaged.
So if you take all that into account it really leaves a year-over-year decline of only about a little over 1% due to the somewhat softer demand or softer economy.
We have a large percentage of new markets or markets in development that's around 18%.
This will decline as we go forward and especially into next year and almost all of the 7% capacity growth in second quarter was in Dallas Washington Reagan and LaGuardia and a small amount in some new international markets.
Dallas alone was up 150% year-over-year.
Its load factors and profit margins and return on invested capital all exceed system average.
And in that statistic I'm talking about the new Dallas markets not just Dallas in total.
In Dallas we've lowered fares we've added flights we've stimulated demand and we've created meaningful competition for the first time in decades which is exactly what we said that we were going to do.
We've added capacity in the second quarter in other domestic markets but those have essentially been funded by cuts in other preexisting markets that we had served.
So looking ahead we are delighted to announce this morning an amendment an exertion of our co-brand credit card agreement with Chase.
They are absolutely a terrific partner.
You've heard a lot about our strategic initiatives over last five years and in particular our all new rapid rewards program.
So this updated deal is a testament to the enormous success of our new program and the new Chase deal amounts to what is a stealth fixed initiative or at least an extension of the current all the rapid rewards.
So as we reported this morning with our release we'll recognize an additional $250 million in revenue for the second half which will continue on in future quarters and then of course we'll also recognize an additional onetime benefit in July of $150 million.
So with that along with some improvement that we've noted in our core business our sequential revenue trends will improve significantly from second quarter to third quarter.
So this is an interesting year for us.
We have the AirTran integration behind us.
We're continuing to optimize the large number of converted or we call them developing markets.
Secondly we're following through with the secular opportunity to expand Love Field.
Third we're seeing the full year effect of our significant expansion in Washington Reagan and LaGuardia as a consequence of buying slots from American upon their merger with U.S.
Airways.
We're following through gradually with our commitment to launch Southwest international service in July of last year and follow through with the launch of new international service in Houston at Hobby for the first time since the 1960s.
And it has Love Field like opportunities to lower fares add flights and stimulate the market.
Obviously the scale there is much much smaller and admittedly the risk is greater.
So we'll take all of that into account with our expansion plans.
We're also gradually returning aircraft from an out of service state to an in service state as the integration of the AirTran fleet or its replacement fully completes.
So we're able to grow this year without adding any net aircraft.
And again start the year with around 700 units so we planned in the year at about 700 units.
For next year our fleet plans are unchanged.
Tammy will give you some updates as to some of the pluses and minuses within that but we're still targeting to grow the fleet around 2%.
Our ASM plans which of course are always available seat mile capacity plans which are always subject to change for next year will be at least 5% and that's driven almost all by 2015's growth but no more than 6% and again that's all based on our current outlook.
And I would just summarize all of those thoughts by just reminding everybody that we will very carefully manage our growth so that we can sustain our operational excellence our outstanding customer service our strong profit margins and returns on capital and maintain our strong balance sheet.
And I believe in our people and I'm confident in our ability to manage all those things so Tammy with that quick overview I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Gary and welcome everyone.
We're very pleased to report all-time high quarterly earnings excluding special items of $691 million or $1.03 per diluted share which is a 43% increase from second quarter last year.
Our GAAP net income was $608 million including $83 million in special items.
Second quarter operating income was a record $1.1 billion and our operating margin was a strong 22.5%.
Our pre-tax margin grew by 6 points to 21.7% and our 12 months trailing pre-tax return on invested capital grew to 28.2%.
We've generated $1 billion of free cash flow for the first half of this year and in May we announced a $1.5 billion share repurchase program.
During the second quarter we repurchased $380 million in shares and we announced today that we plan to launch another $500 million accelerated stocks repurchase program soon which will bring our share repurchases this year to nearly $1.2 billion.
Once the new ASR accelerated share repurchase is launched we will have completed more than half of our $1.5 billion repurchase authorization in just under three months time.
We also announced a 25% increase in our divided in May.
Our divided yield is currently just under 1%.
Revenues for the quarter were up 2% on a 7% capacity increase and as Gary noted we are extremely pleased with the development of our new markets which represented about 20% of our available seat miles.
Our second quarter results also benefited substantially from lower fuel prices and our continued focus on non-fuel costs particularly our fleet modernization effort.
Our economic fuel cost savings in second quarter were almost $500 million and without fuels our unit costs were flat year-over-year and when you exclude the records $182 million profit sharing earned by all of our hard-working employees this quarter our unit cost decreased nearly 2% year-over-year.
And I would remind you all that in order to fully understand our results you needed to keep in mind the impact of the increased stage land engaged to both revenue and cost.
I'll take you through our revenues and cost in more detail but the takeaway is that our network is producing strong margins and returns with or without the help of fuel.
I'd like to congratulate all of our hard working employees on these exceptional second quarter results which marked our ninth quarter of consecutive record profitability.
Diving more into revenues we reported a record revenues of $5.1 billion.
And on a unit basis our passenger revenues were down 4.6% which is right in line with guidance for the last couple of months.
Total revenue per available seat miles was also down in a similar range.
And demand for our low fares remain very strong throughout the quarter resulting in record load factors for each month and the full quarter.
Aside from softer yields experienced in May and June our second quarter year-over-year unit revenues were impacted roughly two points to three points from higher engage and flying longer distances.
As Gary walked you through the unusually high increase in stage engage is largely due to workforce in Dallas.
Our year-over-year unit revenue comps were impacted by about a point from last year's revenue adjustment first privilege.
Our new markets are maturing in line with plan.
Demand in our new Dallas markets and particular has just been tremendous with load factors with over 90% for the quarter and margins exceeding a system average performance.
International is also developing as planned which took into account the potential for us slower rate of ramp-up than a market like Dallas which clearly had lots of pent-up demand for our legendary low fares.
Our Rapid Rewards programs as Gary said is a huge success and continues to contribute significantly with nearly $80 million in incremental revenue a year-over-year in the second quarter.
We're very pleased with the growth of our frequent flyer program including the growth in the credit card program and we were thrilled to announce today that we recently amended and extended our credit card agreement with Chase.
Terms of the agreement are confidential however the amended agreement includes improved economics over the life of the multi – what is a multi-year contract.
For accounting purposes this amendment triggers the requirements that follow the valuation methodology prescribed by the 2009 update to the accounting standards versus the residual accounting methodology that we previously followed.
This new methodology will put us on a more comparative accounting method to the industry.
The effect of the amended contract and applying the new accounting methodology is that we will be able to accelerate a portion of our revenue – revenue recognition associated with point sold to take.
In addition under the new accounting methodology and amended agreement we will allocate a portion of the revenues to other revenue first as the 100% being allocated to passenger revenues as has been the case over the past couple of years.
As a result of the new accounting methodology our year-over-year comparisons on PRASM will be distorted for at least a year's time and the more relevant measure of our unit revenue performance would be RASM.
With this in mind we are a providing a RASM guidance for third quarter 2015 and we'll provide updates to our third quarter RASM outlook in our monthly traffic releases.
And we'll continue to evaluate whether this will remain our practice beyond this quarter.
Our preliminary estimate of the year-over-over benefit from the amended agreement combined with the effect of the new accounting methodology is approximately $400 million and for the second half of 2015.
Included in that $400 million is approximately $150 million that will be recorded in third quarter as a special revenue item.
And this will result – this will result from the deferred revenue liability being revalued using the current estimated selling price for transportation resulting in a liability rejection and corresponding non-cash one-time increase to GAAP operating revenues.
As this amount will be recorded as a special revenue item it will be excluded from our reported RASM and thus is excluded from our third quarter right RASM guidance today.
However as a reminder when you're modeling a third quarter you will want to keep in mind the profit sharing impact of special items.
The remaining – approximately $250 million of the $400 million estimated impact to the second half of the year will benefit our reported unit revenues.
Our preliminary estimate of the year-over-year benefit to each – third quarter and fourth quarter RASM is roughly two points to three points.
One additional note is that in conjunction with our amended agreement with Chase we are very excited to announce that we have also extended our long-term exclusive co-brand network agreement with FESA.
So with our Chase agreement and corresponding a change in accounting methodology in mind and based on our current bookings of revenue trends we are estimating third quarter RASM will decline approximately 1% year-over-year.
And while the economic indicators have been somewhat mixed the economy overall being fairly solid and our revenue trends appear to be stabilizing and improving.
With or without the Chase related benefit July is currently trending a better than average sequentially and third quarter is also trending at sequentially from the second quarter.
Overall considering the estimated 2 percentage point impact of more stage and gauge as well as our estimated 18% of our network under developments we are very pleased with our third quarter revenue outlook.
So turning to freight and other revenues we are also pleased with our performance there.
We currently expect third quarter 2015 freight revenues to be comparable to second quarter 2015.
Other revenues declined slightly year-over-year from the elimination of AirTran fees with the integration completed in December last year.
This was largely offset by continued strength and certain ancillary revenues such as EarlyBird Check-in and upgraded boarding.
So a very good performance there.
And other ancillary revenues were approximately $46 million.
We expect third quarter 2015 other revenues to increase significantly from third quarter 2014 due to the change in accounting methodology I just walked you through regarding fee amended Chase agreements.
So now I will turn to our cost performance.
Our second quarter unit costs excluding special items decreased 12% on a year-over-year basis due to lower fuel prices big cost control fleet modernization and improved aircraft utilization.
Our economic fuel costs were $400 million lower year-over-year largely driven by a 33% decline of fuel prices and approximately 2% improvement in fuel burns.
We are expecting a significant fuel savings again in third quarter relative to a year ago and based on our hedge position and market prices as of Monday we expect our third quarter fuel price per gallon to be at approximately $2.20 which is well below third quarter last year's $2.94.
We made adjustments to our hedge book last fall as you might remember when crude prices collapsed and we continue to actively manage our hedge book to balance exposure with our desire to have some upside protection.
Since last fall we participated in the vast majority of the market decline and we currently expect our total 2015 economic fuel cost to decline approximately $1.3 billion from last year.
And on the non-fuel cost side excluding our special items of fuel our unit costs were comparable year-over-year.
Again this includes a 43% year-over-year increase in profit sharing.
Excluding profit sharing and special items our non-fuel unit cost decreased 1.8% year-over-year driven largely by the fleet monetization benefit.
Maintenance unit cost declined 4% year-over-year and our aircraft rental unit cost declined 27% primarily due to the retirement of the 717 fleet.
So based on our current cost trends we expect total third quarter unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to decrease year-over-year approximately 1%.
And I'll note that we are still on track for full year 2015 unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to decrease approximately 2% year-over-year.
Moving now to the balance sheet and cash flow.
We ended the quarter with $3.1 billion in cash and short-term investments and our operating cash flows for the first half of 2015 was $2.1 billion and our free cash flow was $1 billion of which we have returned approximately 80% to our shareholders thus far this year.
Our balance sheet is strong with leverage of 33% including off balance sheet aircraft leases as of the end of the quarter and we continue to hold the distinction among U.S.
airlines of having an investment grade rated balance sheet by all three rating agencies and we're very pleased to receive an upgrade by Moody's to BAA1 with a outlook positive during the quarter.
We continue to estimate our 2015 capital spend to be approximately $1.8 billion and that excludes assets constructive for others which is estimated to be in the $50 million to $100 million range net and this includes as a reminder approximately $1.1 billion in aircraft spend.
We're still finalizing our 2016 CapEx plans but continue to estimate our aircraft spend will be in the $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion range and total spend less than $2 billion.
Overall our balance sheet and cash flows have remained strong throughout this year allowing us to continuing to invest in the business and return significant value to our shareholders employees and customers.
And that brings me to a quick recap of our fleet plans I – Gary went through pretty fully but I won't go into too much detail here because I'll just reference you back to the earnings release but we – end of the quarter was 689 aircraft in our fleets and at the end continued to expect our fleet to reach roughly at 700 by the end of this year.
Regarding capacity our third quarter ASM are estimated to increase year-over-year approximately 8% on a year-over-year seat growth of 3.5%.
For the full year our 2015 capacity growth remains on pace to increase approximately 7% year-over-year and that's with seats growing just under 3% year-over-year.
And again this year's plans are targeted largely on Dallas with a smaller portion of Washington Reagan New York LaGuardia international and other regional market opportunities.
Gary walked you through the annualized impact of our 2015 capacity additions which again will contribute approximately 4% to 5% of our 2016 year-over-year capacity.
And with a continued focus on optimizing our network we currently plan to grow our 2016 ASM and the 5% to 6% range versus 2015.
And as you think about our 2016 year-over-year ASM growth keep in mind that the timing of our 2015 annualized growth will create a higher year-over-year rate of return rate of growth in the first half of 2016 as compared to second half of 2016.
So in conclusion of these are very exciting times at Southwest demand for our low fares and friendly service is strong and we're delighted with the overall performance of our network.
And in closing we've received a lot of questions regarding our historic 15% pre-tax goals which we've acknowledged is too low with today's fuel prices.
Over the long run our goal is to consistently deliver healthy profits and returns at or in excessive our cost to capital which is currently under 8%.
Given where we are today simply referring back to our historic goals is that meaningful and we will be providing annual financial goals of moving forward.
In 2014 we delivered a strong 21.2% ROIC and for 2015 our goal is to exceed 21%.
And we are well on our way to achieving that goal.
For the 12 months ended June 30 our pre-tax ROIC is 28.2% which is almost 18% after-tax and our current outlook for the second half of 2015 is strong.
Well it's too early to provide guidance for 2016.
Again our goal is to sustain health margins and returns on capital in line with 2015.
And with that overview Tom we're ready to take questions.
Thank you ma'am.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you for waiting.
We'll now begin with our first question from Andrew Didora with Bank of America.
Hi everyone.
Thank you for taking my question.
I guess Tammy just wanted to question around prepared remarks in terms of your revenue trending up sequentially what is driving this? Is it better volumes or have you been able to push price more than you had been able to over the course of May and June? Thanks.
Sure.
We are seeing some softness in our yields.
But again we are seeing that pickup and just continuation of healthy demand.
So the economy feels pretty good now and of course we're expecting a tremendous benefit from Chase and the accounting related to that new contract.
And then if I could just follow up to that.
I know corporate is a much smaller part of your business but just curious in terms of what your corporate customers are telling you about potential future future demand out of that channel and if you're seeing any sort of slowdown on the corporate side? Thanks.
Sure.
Our corporate sales grew pretty much in line with capacity and our business mix is still roughly a third of our passenger.
So no meaningful change there.
And when you factor in the mix of our development markets and just the trend set we had on the yield side in the second quarter we're very pleased with those trends.
Our corporate sales – again on the revenue side also we saw a nice increase there year-over-year.
And our – business mix continues to run in the low 30% range.
You can see some year-over-year declines in some of the oil patch so I think that's pretty consistent with all the headlines that you would know but Paul I don't know if you have anything to add I think the – I don't know in fairness to your question that corporate accounts are telling us anything but if we just look at the recent trends I agree with everything Tammy said.
I don't think you are necessarily hearing anything or...
No I think the corporate business is in line with the base business generally as you mentioned we're seeing points of modest weakness that you would expect like oil and gas in some cases manufacturing related to that but we're seeing offsetting points of strength like healthcare and consulting and other sectors so net-net I think it's about a wash.
Yeah Gary on the – on the oil related roots I didn't note it in my remarks because all others is treated where there's an impact it really hasn't been that significant it's very strong.
That's great.
Thank you very much.
And we'll take our next question from Tom Kim with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Gary can you just help me understand how you think about the mix between pricing and load factors? And I guess just beyond staging gauge it does seem like pricing is generally softer not necessarily weak but softer for your sales in the industry and I'm wondering you got load factors up pricing isn't necessarily a softer cadence.
I'm just wondering how do you think about that balance? Well I want to be fair to your question.
If you look at our reported results here for the second quarter and despite the fact that passenger tripplings are longer the average fare is down as a fact.
I mean you're right average fares are actually down year-over-year so there is – it's very competitive industry and some of that is of course a function of us adding capacity in new markets which are under development.
So I think in terms of the way we think about it going forward we want to be the low fare carrier.
We are working hard to support that by being the low cost producer.
So we love keeping our fares low and would prefer to have more for airplanes.
Our load factors are the highest in our history and the differential between Southwest now and the legacy carriers is very small.
So we like that and obviously if we can drive revenue through sources other than fares like our new Chase agreement we're very very pleased with that.
So in the end we just need to manage revenues and it needs to provide a sufficient margin over our cost and hit our capital returns.
So I think in that sense we're somewhat agnostic but perhaps biased towards higher loads and lower fares.
I appreciate that color.
Thank you Gary.
And then just as a bigger picture question.
Can you share like your thoughts about you know the ability to sort of still expand the market.
Do you think that there is still opportunity within the U.S.
to be growing the overall demand pie? Well again all politics are local.
So I think it just depends on the market.
I was asked earlier this morning about why the industry isn't expanding faster given oral prices.
There were physical constraints in some places Love Field is the perfect example where you can't continue to grow all field.
Reagan is another example.
So you just have to go market-by-market.
As I think about Southwest Airlines we have tactical opportunities to continue to grow our domestic market which is maturing every year.
But we still interestingly enough have very exciting opportunities to do that.
And frequencies to connect dots I'll just highlight a recent one that we've done which is Austin to St.
Louis.
And it makes perfect sense for us to do that and it's off to a great start.
Memphis is another one that we've highlighted over the course of the last year.
It was an AirTran city we decided to open it on Southwest.
We did not replicate the AirTran network we plugged it in a way that we thought maybe more sense for Southwest and we are doing game busters out of Memphis.
Contrast that now to what I would call pure expansion which is as flying transporter and that's different.
That's adding higher risk capacity to cities that don't know Southwest Airlines unfortunately the ones we're adding right now are mostly dependent upon U.S.
traffic when we add a San José Costa Rica as an example.
But nonetheless that is a higher risk flight as compared to adding Dallas to Chicago.
So we just have to do this from the bottoms up it's not a top down exercise and it's a nice thing that we've reported consistently as if we have a significant number of very handsome and deep opportunities to continue to grow.
And then in most cases that means we're able to grow into a market and add some value by bringing lower fares.
So how much stimulation is left in the U.S.
overall obviously a lot less here in 2015 than 20 years ago but nonetheless you still have opportunities.
I mean Dallas Love Field is the poster child which is just an incredible success story.
And there were a lot of critics that did not feel like there was much opportunity to grow and they were wrong.
So we'll just look for those kinds of opportunities across the country and where they're available to us we'll put in service where they're not we won't force it.
Gary thanks a lot for that detailed discussion.
And we'll take our next question from Savi Syth with Raymond James.
Hey good afternoon.
So just a quick question on the hedging side now that your – has anything changed on your side is there what you're attempting to do with the hedges? Yes.
We did – I'll just walk you through what we've done since the third quarter – since the second quarter rather.
So in the second quarter if you recall the energy market started to trend upwards.
And with the decrease in the recount and increase in market demand we were concerned market prices would continue to escalate.
So we did add some positions for the second half of this year.
But so far supply as you know has continued to outlay demand which has depressed the market prices.
So we're continuing to actively manage that.
So for the second half of the year the guidance that we gave you for the third quarter includes roughly $0.40 of losses per gallon but that's embedded in the $2 estimate that we gave you for the quarter so the $2.20 estimate.
So I'll just point you to Savi just as a reminder really the best way to do help guide for our fuel prices is just using sensitivity and as always we've included that in the earnings release for you to help you along with your modeling.
So that's – so that's the change that we've made since second quarter I think the last guidance that we gave you for the full year as a reminder when we unwound our hedges back when the market collapsed back in the fall I think at that time we guided you to about $0.20 of penalty for the – for the quarter we got out of way of that largely in the second half.
So our penalties are a little bit greater here in the second half of this year.
But on average I've got – kind of $0.25 average in my head for the full year.
So up a little bit from what we reported to you previously.
All right and the only thing I would add Savi is that from a program strategy with prices lower and with a more comfortable cushion in our profit margin and the – you just layer in the very expensive nature we're trying to hedge I think it just argues to be less hedged if that's where you're headed as opposed to more hedged.
And I think we're mostly focused right now in working our current position off burring that off in the most cost effective way.
But we've got a – a business that's built for substantially higher energy prices fortunately.
And the direction of energy prices right now seems to be a bit clear than it was 90 days ago.
That's always dangerous to think.
We know our energy prices are going to go so we don't.
But at least for right now we have to have a view and then we have to have some kind of behavior accordingly.
And right now that's what we're managing to.
Yeah and Savi just one last note and we're currently participating in a large percentage of the – to the downside here here in third quarter third quarter 2015.
It's not as quick as we were but it's still substantial and it's producing yeah fuel prices well below a year ago level? Great.
That's all very helpful.
So just on the – I'm assuming the 2016 has positioned [indiscernible] 2014 is that really maybe kind of balancing some of the locked in losses that you have in 2016? That's our – we're still working on our 2016 and 2017 hedge book.
And as Gary said our bias at this point is to lower jet fuel prices.
So we're working to balance that as best as we can.
Got it.
And if I may ask one other question and not related to the hedging on the 18% of markets under development.
Could you remind me again like what the drag is on your revenues currently.
And then maybe – you think a portion of that will continue next year as you continue to open your market.
So what's the drag that we can look forward to maybe being eliminated next year? Yes.
So for the drag for the second quarter just to help you out I think we've reported back to you in the first quarter that it was 0.6 roughly and for the second quarter the drag was a little over 1%.
All right.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
So you know it's – obviously it's pretty big number but the other thing I would just reinforce to your question is we've shared great results for Dallas.
And Dallas in other words is a whatever that revenue percentage is of our total.
But Dallas would have been better.
I think as the economy maybe stronger.
So there – even though it's really good even it has a drag.
So I think that there is – if the economy improves our markets develop obviously we're hopeful of some significant upside there.
Can't promise that but it's just common sense that tells you if you got these many new markets that there – that they are creating some drag.
So it's tough for us to estimate that but however you want to estimate is mine with me.
But I think there is a pretty significant opportunity to improve here.
And that's what we're going to be managing.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Julie Yates with Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon.
Tanks for taking my question.
Tammy any change in how you're planning to report PRASM I noticed you didn't give the June actual unit revenue growth for traffic a few weeks ago and today you guided to a Q2 RASM instead of July PRASM as you normally would have done.
So is there any change of thinking there? Yes Julie.
You are stating in and out.
But I think I got your question.
But please redirect me if I'm not answering it fully.
Yes we are planning to change at least for the third quarter of what we're reporting and on monthly traffic releases.
We're going to be providing you a updated guidance on PRASM for the full quarter and that's really due to the Chase agreement and that we just executed here this month.
We provided you our estimates but there is some noise between passenger revenues and other.
We will be recognizing more of that revenue recognition in other that we have historically.
So PRASM year-over-year trends are not going to be all of that meaningful until we lap and that's when we get probably a year down the road.
So at this point I just think it's more meaningful to provide you all our RASM that help you with your modeling.
And so we'll get through this quarter and then we'll evaluate if we want to continue with that practice.
Okay.
So just to clarify there'll be no monthly numbers given the...
There will be no monthly number but we do intend to provide you if there are any updates to our third quarter guidance for the full quarter in other words.
Okay.
Great.
And then you filed your schedules through early march when we file again your capacity plans little further out into 2016? Our plan is to extend the schedule sort of as normal which would be I'll say about a month from now.
Okay.
And that will be for few months? That's right.
Okay.
And then just lastly on your goal of maintaining the 2015 ROIC levels in 2016 what are you assuming on fuel? We haven't given you – we haven't given you our fuel numbers but I think using something we are looking at market numbers just like you are but with or without fuel a year we are managing to – continue to deliver strong returns and very healthy returns above our cost of capital.
So we haven't really given you our forward yet for fuel for next year.
You know and duly in fairness to your question it's a conceptual goal.
So a change in fuel price assumptions this material is obviously going to impact what we would ultimately target as a number next year.
But on a fuel constant basis is pretty easy to think about that we want to sustain the current level of operating margins from year-to-year or grow them and then by implication we would want to sustain or grow our return on capital what we ultimately adopt is the plan is going to be depended upon more variables than just fuel prices but those are our goals.
Okay.
Thanks Gary.
We'll take our next question from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Hi good afternoon.
Tammy just a housekeeping item you quantify the Chase impact on the second half you also talk about it providing value over the life of the contract I suppose that means that it does imply at least there's revenue upside associated to – to the relationship in 2016.
Any additional color there? Yes Jamie if I'm tracking your question correctly what we provided you is just the second – of the benefit for the second half this year.
So if you annualize that – that should get you in the ballpark and again I'm talking about the $250 million of the $400 million.
Okay that's helpful.
Second question considering you took a $55 million charge in the second quarter relative to ratification bonuses is it safe to assume that your third quarter ex-fuel ex-profit-sharing and CASM guide assumes the attendance ratified model? Jamie either way we're going to be roughly in the hunt of the guidance I gave you.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you very much.
And we'll take our next question from Helane Becker with Cowen.
Thanks very much operator.
Tammy you guys used to provide revenues [indiscernible] routes are you willing to do that still? All right no as well.
Helane we've start that and never we're not it's a lot.
It's tremendous.
Right now I definitely go.
Provide a delta I know I don't have the [indiscernible] Helane.
Okay okay.
Thank you.
We're not providing that breakout.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then I think Gary you mentioned that Houston was going to open the international terminal later this year.
Do you have actually a date for that at this point? We do and if I trust my memory to be correct I believe it's October 15.
Okay.
Now we're constructing a five gate terminal and that is required for us to operate and that construction is right on schedule.
So it's been a fantastic project and we're obviously looking forward to launching service.
We got to schedule produced all those seats are out there for sale what is included is also launch of service to belief and then Bob I think in November you follow-up with the launch of Liberia Costa Rica.
It's great.
So it's very exciting for us and I think the potential of the terminal is roughly 25 daily departures and we are starting out much more modestly than that.
And other airlines can use the gates if at least if they sign up to the lease.
So but we're looking forward to it and we're on schedule with that.
And then can I just ask a question about the Dallas Keith.
I think you guys have to buy actually the two gates from United that you're adding.
And now delta I guess it's kind of interloping on that one gate.
So when you increase the schedule on August 9 to 180 flights how will you accommodate those other 14 flights? Well you asked a very good question as you always do.
Yes we are sub-leasing the gates that United is leasing directly from the city of Dallas.
And we bid for those gates we rewarded the bid we obviously entered into a contract with United and we received the consent of the city of Dallas to proceed with that transaction and the approval of the Department of Justice.
When we add the flights that we after paying good money for two gates obviously we intend to use them and to their fullest and we have published our schedule we'll move to 180 daily departures and to accommodate the court and its desire to maintain the status quo we have extended I believe the term as a license the delta to continue to operate their five daily departures and it will be difficult because there is no room at those gates.
If we do find that there's room then we want that room.
So in any event we all know that there is scarce capacity at Dallas Love Field but that is the status of it.
And we'll work hard to support the court and their review of what is a complex issue.
We don't see it as complicated but we've been dealing with it for 34 years but that's the status.
Okay okay.
Well thinks very much.
We'll look forward tomorrow's boot from the flight attendants.
Yes indeed.
And we'll take our next question from Joseph Denardi with Stifel.
Hey thanks.
Good afternoon.
Gary I just want to clarify on the ROIC target is the plan to no longer provide a longer-term target and if so why is the year-to-year the right way to hand this? And then is the business being run to kind of ex-deal to hold margins flat or to grow them I think there's obviously a difference between the two? Well.
I'm not sure how to answer your question.
I think this is complicated.
I think given the current fuel price environment in the current industry environment we are generating a substantial shareholder value well and in excess of our long-term 15% target.
I think Tammy's only point is it in the short-term it sort of renders the whole 15% discussion moved.
Because we're not targeting down to 15% we won't do that for the next year.
And with a little bit of to get fortune here will be many many years of above the average returns on the capital which is what we're striving for.
So last year we had a 21.2% return on the invested capital and our goal for 2015 was to beat that and thus far we are well ahead of that.
So as we enter the fall planning process for 2016 we will be straining to do the same thing again in 2016 to meet or beat or wherever we think we're going to end up here in 2015.
We think that's the best way to grow shareholder value if we can grow the business and on top of that grow the returns it just provides very very substantial shareholder returns.
And that is our goal playing it simple.
If fuel prices double between here and next year that will make that an unrealistic goal in the short-term.
It took us obviously a number of years to get adjusted to $100 crude oil.
So hopefully that won't happen.
We're trying to take steps so that we don't see that kind of a shock for fuel prices back to the hedging discussion.
But our goal for next year will be to continue to sustain very strong returns on capital.
Okay.
And then Tammy can you just give us what the no show fee revenue was in the quarter? Sure.
Just give me one minute before that.
I'll come back if we have another question.
We'll go ahead and move onto Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore.
Hey thanks.
Wanted to come back to an earlier question about better than sequential revenue trends or better than normal seasonality.
I forget the exact term.
Can you just walk us through that again ex the deal and maybe playback the second quarter.
Do you feel like there was yield softness and weakening closing yields.
And if so when did that recover and is it something that you're seeing based on revenue that's booked in July or bookings for the rest of the quarter.
Any additional commentary you can give us kind of excess to sort of accretive credit card deal would be great.
Well let me know your comments Tammy you clean all this up but Duane I assume you've been on the call the entire time I know it's a busy morning for you all but the – where I netted down the second quarter was there was "softness" for us to the extent of about 1% whether its 2% whether its zero it sometimes is a little hard to tease out because there is a lot of noise in Southwest Airlines in 2015 there is a lot of things going on there is a lot of change.
So we've tried to tease all that out.
The comps versus a year-ago in the second quarter at least to me appeared to be harder versus 2014 than the third quarter.
So you have that going on as well but just pure sequentially I think it was our feeling before the deal that things were beginning to improve perhaps a little bit.
I just don't feel like you can necessarily take that to the bank.
So whatever improvement it is I think is rather modest and the majority of the improvements sequentially that we're reporting to you is the Chase deal.
Okay.
The good news in what – at least what I was trying to explain with my remarks my opening remarks is that to the extent that there is some softness it doesn't feel to us like it's getting softer still.
If anything it feels like we've seen a bit of the bottom and things are beginning to improve.
But 90 days is a long time in our work.
So a lot of things can change between now and September.
But that's the way things feel right now and obviously the Chase – the Chase deal is pretty material.
We've given you the numbers so you can – you can do your own arithmetic if you want but I think Tammy you already said it's $125 – $125 million a quarter.
So you can kind of – I just can't do all the math Duane in my head sitting here.
Tammy anything do you want to add? Yeah.
Duane the only thing just to give as I mentioned earlier that the third quarter is trending up.
And if I had to it's probably about a point sequentially from the second quarter.
And we are – we're continuing to see a very strong demand as Gary mentioned for low fares.
And thus far in July including the Chase benefit I would say our July RASM is trending pretty much aligned with the last year.
So while it's a little difficult to tease all this out I think it's fair to say there is – the way I'm thinking of it is we had some bad with the yield weakness in the second quarter but trends have stabilized and I think improving a bit so.
Yeah.
And again so what I mean with a lot of noise and Tammy just said the same thing.
These are all trends without us doing the deep analysis.
So is our improvement because the economy is improving is because our development markets are improving is it Dallas is it Washington Reagan are we seeing more improvement in the international? All that has to be – it takes a while to understand and now we're talking about predicting trends in the future where we don't have that in-depth understanding necessarily.
So I think it feels to me like the economy is strengthening a bit we keep up with it just like you do and all of the weekly reports that I see are all – they're mixed they're continuing to be mixed.
I just read one this morning before our call and it was yet another mix to report on on current trends.
So it could be that it's just our own developing markets are improving which would be welcome also.
But in any event whatever it is we are definitely seeing an improvement in our sequential trends and certainly because of the Chase contract.
Okay.
Thanks for that commentary.
And I was just going to jump in with the notion of revenue that was $18 million for the quarter.
And that does conclude the analyst Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
At this time I would like to turn the call back to Ms.
Brand.
Thank you Tom and thank you all again for joining us today.
And as always I'll be available if there are any follow up questions this afternoon.
And that does conclude the analyst portion of today's call.
Thank you for joining.
Ladies and gentlemen we'll now begin our media portion of today's call.
I would like to first introduce Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President of Communications and Outreach.
Good day everyone.
Tom if you could go ahead and give our members of the media instructions on how to queue up for questions.
We'll go ahead and get started.
Yes.
Ma'am.
[Operator Instructions] And thank you for standing by.
We'll take our first question from Terry Maxon with The Dallas Morning News.
Afternoon everybody.
Good afternoon Terry.
Hey Tammy set off of a great deal of excitement on May 19th when she gave the capacity estimates for your 2015 and 2016.
Your numbers today instead of 7% to 8% you're now at 7% for this year and 5% to 6% for this year instead of 6% to 7%.
My question is did you actually dial back capacity set more just a refinement of your estimates? Hi Terry.
Yes.
We will – I think it's both really.
We were always working on schedule as we look forward.
And what we were simply dealing at that time I think we had our schedule out.
And it was – I mean simply reporting on the schedule that we had published at that time.
And given the weakness that we saw in May and June and particularly on the yield and as we're getting closer to publishing our schedule we are dialing back our capacity a bit just based on – based on the trends that we saw on the yield side in the second quarter.
And then also as we're getting – as we're thinking about next year what we do know is that the carryover impact in this year's capacity is and the – for next year then the 4% to 5% range.
And then above that as we told you we're expecting to grow 5% to 6%.
So where we brought a lot here over the past couple of years.
So we want to certainly digest that growth and as we're thinking about our international expansion while what we're seeing so far is in line with expectations.
It does take a little bit of what we're experiencing and it does take a little bit longer for those markets to mature.
So we factor all of that in to our capacity plans and just based on our current outlook and where we're not – we dialed that back just a bit.
But Terry what I'd also point out to you at that time we as always we tweaked our schedule and react to the current business outlook.
All right.
The only thing I would add is – it's not really a macro discussion it's really more of a bottoms up discussion.
So we have airplanes that are available for us to put to work in the fleet which is the source of our capacity increase really both years 2015 and 2016.
Although we're adding a few airplanes next year to the fleet.
And as we were publishing the schedule we have pushed the utilization in the first part of this year which has squeezed some flights into what I'll describe as a non-peak time period and they are sometimes less than desirable flights.
So there's some opportunities to cut those back as we are beginning to restore more and more aircraft back into flying.
So we have some things going on like that.
Secondly and I mentioned this on the Analyst Call our international is a true expansion and it carries risk.
And so our folks are monitoring very carefully the performance of those markets and we do not want to grow those new expansion markets too fast.
So those are – we're managing the business as opposed to reacting to the May 19 scenario and we want to continue to hear out strong profits strong margins and grow the airline at the right pace whether it's 5% 6% or 7% we'll figure out what that right pace is and we'll try to make that as dynamic as possible knowing that the airline is fairly set in concrete for a while.
It's tough for us to turn it on a dime but we certainly are continuing to evaluate our opportunity of 2016 and haven't made final decisions about the capacity yet.
Okay.
Again products – Terry one thought as well because I think what you were referring to was the capacity for this year.
It really – we're talking decimal point.
In term It's better to 10 points [indiscernible] And so it is a lot of attention for rounding.
2016 our thoughts have moved more.
They've moved up we've moved down Mike Van de Ven has operating needs for some airplanes so – we are not fully baked with our plans for 2016 yet but those are the parameters that we're operating under.
Yeah if the – on the capacity I wondered further in fact you just rounded it a little bit differently but when you're further out you are the vaguer the future is but if I could follow up on our question that came up toward the end of the conference call with the analyst the delta software situation is it – do you anticipate operational issues once you do your August 9 and you've got 180 flights and there are five folded into one of your gates? Well it's not going to be easy and our people are planning as best they can and they will work really hard to serve our customers well so I think it will be incumbent upon all parties to be cooperative and levelheaded but yeah it's going to be crowded.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Jack Nicas with Wall Street Journal.
Good afternoon folks.
Hi Jack.
So can I ask this question the DOJ is investigating Southwest and three other large U.S.
airlines for possible collision on capacity so what is – what's your take on this probe and how are you cooperating? Well we're cooperating by doing what they told us to so we're good at supplying information and we know how to do that and we're busy complying with that request.
There has been a lot of talk and advice on and we don't want to continue to perpetuate that but I'd – you'd have to ask the Department of Justice what's actually [ph] spon their desire to investigate.
But we're fully compliant we compliant with all the anti-trust laws and we compliant with all laws for that matter and certainly that with the Federal Securities Laws.
At the same time we are – if you go back to the Terry's question of Tammy in the May 19th conference we're doing our best to be transparent with our investors and answer their questions.
But our focus is on the Southwest Airlines and managing our business and would not commenting or making comments about our competitors.
Okay.
Thanks.
And one other quick follow-up.
Some of I guess some of the analysts that have been on this call before over the past several months have criticized the industry and in some cases the Southwest for growing too quickly.
And there is concerns among the analysts concerns among the investors that capacity growth has been too rapid and jet fuel has been fueling that.
Obviously you've got a unique situation with Dallas Love Field but what's your response to that criticism that you may be fueling too rapid of the growth to be sustainable and we may be going back into this moving bus cycle of the airline industry? It's incumbent upon us to manage our business.
And Southwest Airlines has competitive strength and we want to take forward advantage of those.
We're a low cost carrier.
We have substantially lower cost than our legacy competitors do.
And I think what people miss is that we have opportunities to grow that many of our competitors do not and Dallas Love Field is a perfect example of that.
Houston Hobby International is another perfect example of that.
So we have not grown Southwest Airlines in three or four years.
So we have a history of being prudent and measured and how we approach our business.
And certainly would want to continue that into the future.
But we have opportunities to grow like we haven't had in years and we absolutely will grow this airline that is in the best interest of our shareholders.
And we have a fiduciary duty to create shareholder value and take care of our shareholders and as well as our employees for that matter and that's what we intend to do.
Thanks very much.
And we'll take our next question from Andrea Ahles with Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
Hi good afternoon.
Hi Andrea.
I was wondering if you talk a little bit more about Love Field and you'd be mentioned in the comments that it's the markets that are doing well and obviously you're adding more in August.
You had previously said that Love were at load factors about 90% on some of those at Love Field.
Are you still seeing that sort of yield or did the softness in May and June also affect Love Field.
And do you – and also do you think fares are going start going up on some of those in the Dallas routes that you've added in the past year post writ.
Andrea I can report this.
You're right the things have changed since I told you that load factors at Love were 90% they're now about 94%.
Okay.
Very very full and very very popular and our folks are working very hard at Love Field and they're doing a great job.
So I'm very pleased with the results I can't talk about that any future pricing as usual.
But we've got very strong results stimulated the market with lower fares we provided a competition that we promised.
And I don't know how it could be any better.
Well I do know how it can be better.
And hopefully we'll be better soon because we'll have even more access to our gates that we have paid for so that we can add even more low fare flights.
That would..
I'm sorry.
Do you expect Houston to – do you expect to grow Houston as quickly you have Dallas in terms of that opportunity with the international base once [indiscernible] in October or are you're going to be more measured because there is more risk with the international hub? Not expect it to grow anywhere near as quickly.
The potential is probably not – well the potential is not nearly as great in terms of just sheer traffic and flights that you have compared to Dallas.
But the theme is very similar it is a market that is monopolized by one competitor with very high fares and we will be able to go in finally and add some competition and significantly lower fares and no doubt we'll simulate the market.
Now it is one thing for us to add flights between Dallas and New York or Washington or Chicago better cities that we currently serve where the customers know us.
As opposed to Houston where we're now going to be adding the lease which is of not only a city but a country that is not familiar with Southwest Airlines and probably doesn't drive an equivalent amount of traffic to United States.
So the risk are different and we'll have to take that into account and we will have more measured growth as an example with these international markets.
Having said all that we're still starting off with a nice bang.
So I think we start off with nine daily departures we're quickly adding a couple more this year.
And we'll just continue to monitor the performance of those flights and evaluate whether we want to add more.
Contrast that to Dallas Love Field and Bob I think we will have added about 60 daily departures in one year – less than a year's time to Dallas.
So we're not talking about 60 daily departures in Huston ever most likely just to put in perspective.
All right.
Thank you.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll take our last question from Dawn Gilbertson with The Arizona Republic.
Good morning.
Gary I wonder if you could revisit for a minute in the website now down back in early June what you've learned from it.
What the real cause was in the past? Give us a sense of – can you quantify any financial impact from being down for a couple of days? Well.
Dawn good to hear from you.
Yeah I think the headline there it was just an extraordinarily successful sale.
But Bob by the way did a tremendous job of managing through that challenge.
So Bob any thought do you want to share there to Dawn's question? Well Dawn I think it shows you the power of a low fare.
So we plan for these things as always we test and we were just overwhelmed with the demand the first couple of days.
We did uncover some technical things that were fixed rapidly but you just can't test everything.
But really what is the demand coming to the side.
At the end of the day we decided to extend the sale by a day which is a little abnormal for us and in totality the sale performed better than we expected despite those two days that were an issue.
So that last day in other word made up – more than made up for all of the issues in the bookings that we couldn't take those first couple of days.
So at the end of the day despite the challenges we know because our customers a lot of issues not being able to get into the website and we've really apologized for that.
But at the end of the day financially the sale was really good despite those issues.
Perfect.
Welcome.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back to Ms.
Rutherford for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Tom and thank you all for being with us today.
If the media has any follow-up questions please let us know.
You can call 214-792-4847 or of course send an inquiry to swamedia.com.
Thanks so much.
And this does conclude today's call.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today's call.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
And welcome to today's call to discuss third quarter 2015 results.
Joining the call today we have Gary Kelly Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Executive Vice President and CFO; Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer; and Mike Van de Ven Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Please note today's call will include forward-looking statements and because these statements are based on the company's current intent expectations and projections they are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please reference this morning's press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
At this time I’d like to go ahead and turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thank you Marcy and good morning everybody and thank you all for joining our third quarter 2015 earnings call.
We are celebrating this is a terrific quarter and really a terrific year.
I am very proud of all of our people all 47 000 of them and I want to thank them and congratulate them on these stellar results.
This is the culmination of years of hard work on their part as well as daily dedication to running a great airline and taking great care of our customers.
While it is true that the majority of the 71% surge in our earnings-per-share was due to a dramatic drop in jet fuel prices there are a lot of other good things happening in this quarter.
Our Rapid Rewards program continues to grow in terms of members and revenues and obviously the amended credit card deal is a highlight for the quarter and for future years.
Next our core passenger business overall is solid and steady and that's despite the very brisk competitive environment that we find ourselves in.
I'm especially pleased with our record load factor and record revenues considering the aggressive Dallas Love Field expansion the transition of the AirTran markets this year the slot acquisitions at DCA and LaGuardia and our continuing international expansion.
Next our cost performance was also very good.
Profit sharing was up significantly and of course that’s a very good thing.
Our nine-month accrual for profit sharing was a record $484 million and well earned by our people and of course they too are benefiting from dramatically lower fuel prices.
As far as the year 2015 goes I just want to recap our plan for a perspective.
This year is a confluence of events some planned and some not but the result is spectacular.
We have significant opportunities to expand Dallas Love Field Washington Reagan LaGuardia International Houston International all converging here in 2015.
While we have significant opportunities we also have significant access to low-cost incremental capacity to pursue these opportunities and that’s through the restoration of our aircraft utilization to more historic levels and our fleet over the last several years has been underutilized as we’ve been going through the merger process.
And then finally with dramatically lower fuel prices we have the cushion to mitigate this expansion risk and actually been very fortunate to help – have that help to drive record profits at the same time that we’re growing.
So we’ve been able to significantly augment our revenue production this year also with the amended credit card deal.
So all this has supported our growth plan of 7% in ASMs for 2015 and still resulted in record earnings and returns and our plans for 2016 are unchanged from our previous guidance.
We are expecting unit revenue growth year-over-year in fourth quarter ‘15 which has been an improvement from the third quarter and that's primarily because our developing markets are continuing to mature rapidly.
So we expect to end this year with roughly 700 airplanes and add roughly 15 aircraft next year again for an available seat mile growth of between 5% and 6%.
So the work over the last five years in particular has come together exceptionally well.
We’re exceptionally well positioned for future growth and that will continue dependent upon our continued success with our low fare brand which of course is built with low-cost and our transparency and we’re exceptionally well-positioned for future growth but also dependent upon our continued success with our customer service and especially the hospitality of our people which is something that Southwest is beloved by our customers for.
So with that brief overview I’d like to turn it over to Tammy Romo our CFO who will take us through the quarterly results.
Thanks Gary and welcome everyone.
We are pleased to report incredibly strong third quarter results marked by many records.
Our third-quarter earnings excluding special items were a record $623 million or $0.94 per diluted share an increase of 71% over last year’s $0.55 per diluted share.
Our GAAP net income was $584 million including $39 million in special items.
In addition to our usual special items related to out of period fuel hedging adjustments we had two other large special items this quarter.
First we recorded an expense of $140 million associated with the tentative agreement with our pilots in accordance with accounting guidance and second as we discussed last quarter we had a special revenue item of $172 million related to the required change in accounting methodology as a result of our amended credit card agreement with Chase.
That was effective in July.
Our operating income excluding special items was a third quarter record $1 billion which produced nearly a 700 basis point improvement in operating margin of 20.3%.
And to top up these records we produced a 12-month trailing pre-tax return on invested capital excluding special items of 31.1%.
So congratulations to all of our terrific employees on this outstanding achievement.
Total operating revenues in the third quarter also a record were $5.3 billion up 10.8% year over year on a capacity increase of 7.6%.
Passenger revenues were also a record $4.7 billion.
Demand for our low fares remained very strong throughout the quarter resulting in nearly 9% growth in traffic and an all time quarterly high record low factor.
The yield environment remained but stabilized and sequentially our third quarter unit revenue trends were above average driven by our credit card agreement with Chase which again was amended in July.
Our third quarter operating revenues included a $300 million from the amended Chase contract and resulting change in accounting.
Included in that benefit was a one-time non-cash adjustment of $172 million that reduced the deferred revenue liability and thereby increased revenue.
This was recorded as a special revenue adjustment and was excluded from the RASM that we reported.
The remaining $130 million incremental benefit was due to the improved economics of the co-brand contracts and required accounting treatment combined.
This $130 million benefit was about a 2 to 3 point improvement to RASM and we expect a similar benefit in fourth quarter 2015 which is incorporated with the guidance.
I will discuss here with you shortly.
With the amended agreement with Chase and change in accounting treatment our third quarter 2015 passenger revenues would have been $40 million higher and our other revenues would have been $170 million lower for a net incremental reduction to operating revenues of $130 million and of course we wouldn’t have had the $172 million special revenue adjustment.
As Gary said our Rapid Rewards program overall is a huge success and continue to contribute a significant incremental revenue year over year.
On a unit basis our third quarter operating revenues declined 0.4% on a 7.6% capacity increase and we are pleased with this very solid performance especially considering the impact of increased station scheduling which impacted our third quarter year-over-year unit revenues by about two points as well as the high percentage of development markets which impacted year-over-year unit revenues by an additional point.
For third quarter about 18% of our network was under development.
We are delighted as we have been talking about here for some time with the performance of these new markets which are performing at or above our expectation and Dallas continues to outperform the systems margins and returns with a robust demand in all facets of our Dallas growth.
International is also developing as planned and again very excited to begin international service out of Houston last week.
So looking ahead to fourth quarter so far demand for our low fares remains strong.
Based on our current bookings and revenue trends we are estimating fourth quarter RASM will increase approximately 1% year over year including about a $130 million estimated benefit from the Chase agreement and corresponding change in accounting treatment.
Considering the estimated 2 percentage point impact of more stage engaged as well as another point impact from 12% of our network under development all year-over-year we are very pleased with our fourth quarter revenue outlook.
Turning to freight and other revenues we are also very pleased there and we currently expect our fourth quarter freight revenues to be comparable to third quarter this year and as I discussed previously other revenues increased significantly year-over-year and that was largely due to the amended Chase agreement.
And in addition to certain ancillary revenues such as EarlyBird and Upgraded Boarding those were also strong contributors to our other revenue growth.
The growth in such ancillary revenues completely offset the loss of AirTran’s ancillary revenues so we were – again just a strong performance from the ancillary revenue side.
We expect another significant year-over-year increase in fourth quarter 2015 other revenues largely due to the combined impact of the Chase agreement and required accounting treatment change.
So now I will walk through our cost performance briefly.
Third quarter unit costs excluding special items decreased approximately 8% year-over-year due to substantially lower fuel prices and cost control particularly fleet modernization.
Our economic fuel costs decreased almost $300 million year-over-year driven by the 25% decline in fuel prices and an improvement in fuel burn.
Our fuel price per gallon declined $0.74 to $2.20 versus $2.94 in third quarter of last year.
And our third-quarter fuel burn improved 1.8% year-over-year reducing our third-quarter fuel costs by approximately 80 million and we are on track to achieve our target of at least 74 that we mentioned in last November at our investor day.
Based on our hedge position and market price just as of Monday we expect our fourth quarter ‘15 fuel price per gallon to be in the $2.05 to $2.10 range which is well below fourth quarter last year’s $2.62 per gallon.
And since last fall we -- just remind everybody we’ve significantly participated in the market decline and we currently expect 2015 economic fuel costs to decline approximately $1.3 billion over last year.
Excluding fuel and special items our unit costs were up less than a percent which was largely driven by the 77% year-over-year increase in profit sharing and our profit sharing expense increase is a record 484 million as Gary mentioned.
Excluding profit sharing and special items our non-fuel unit costs decreased 1.6% year-over-year which way better than expected due to some cents particularly in advertising and technology related to project costs that had been shifted to fourth quarter 2015 and better-than-expected airport costs.
Our modernization remains on track to produce an estimated 700 million EBIT this year even with the drop in fuel prices.
Based on current cost trends we expect total fourth quarter unit cost excluding fuel special items and profit-sharing to be comparable to fourth quarter last year’s $0.0822.
Now I will move to the balance sheet and cash flow.
Our investment grade balance sheet and cash flows remain very strong and we ended the quarter with $3.1 billion in cash and short-term investments.
Our free cash flow was $1.6 billion with $583 million in third quarter alone.
Our very strong cash flow generation has allowed us to deliver on our commitment to return significant value back to our shareholders while we continue to reinvest prudently in our business.
During the third quarter we repurchased 500 million in common stock which brings our share repurchases this year to nearly 1.2 billion thus far.
We received approximately 9.7 million shares under the $500 million accelerated share repurchase during -- and we expected to receive the remaining 25% of total shares expected by the end of this month.
We currently have 700 million remaining of the 1.5 billion repurchase program that was authorized in May of this year.
We’ve also repaid $170 million in debt and capital lease obligations thus far this year and our leverage including off-balance-sheet aircraft leases is in the low to mid 30% range.
We continue to estimate our 2015 capital spend to be approximately $1.8 million and that excludes assets constructed for others which is estimated to be in the 50 million to 100 million range and that includes approximately 1.1 billion in aircraft spend.
And for 2016 we continue to estimate aircraft spend in the $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion range with total CapEx estimated to be roughly $2 billion.
Turning to our fleet plans for just a quick minute.
We ended third quarter with 692 aircraft in our fleet and continue to expect our fleet to end with roughly 700 by the end of this year.
And regarding capacity our fourth quarter available seat miles are estimated to increase year-over-year approximately 8.5% on year-over-year seat growth of 4.4%.
Our full year capacity growth remains on pace to increase approximately 7% year-over-year with the seat growing only 2.9% year-over-year which as you all know is driven in large part by Dallas’ new non-stop – longer haul flying and also on Washington Reagan LaGuardia and our new international markets.
Our 2016 growth plans haven’t changed as Gary said and we continue to expect to grow our available seat miles for the full year in the 5% to 6% range versus 2015 and as a reminder the vast majority of 2016’s growth will simply be the annualized impact of 2015 capacity additions that we discussed.
So in conclusion we couldn’t be more thrilled with our results this quarter.
Substantially lower fuel prices along with solid revenues and cost controls produced a record earnings and our balance sheet and cash flows remain strong and we continue to be disciplined with our approach to capital allocation as evidenced by a very strong return on invested capital.
So with that brief overview I would like to close again by thanking all of our employees for their hard work and outstanding contributions to these strong results.
Tom with that we’re ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll now begin with our first question from Savi Syth with Raymond James.
Just on the growth opportunity I’d like to discuss – and you’ve kind of talked about things still being a substantial and a domestic growth opportunity here.
I was wondering does that come from just routes that you are not in today that you want to add or is it more from just increasing frequency and gaining share in the markets that you are in today outside of what we see happen in Dallas? We have 85 domestic mainland 48 state destinations today.
I don't believe we have many more dots that we can add to the route map so that’s first part of the answer.
Among the 85 we have a variety of opportunities to add non-stop segments and especially in short haul markets if those markets begin to return to pre 2000 traffic levels we will have a lot of opportunities to add frequencies in those markets as examples.
And I guess you’ve also talked about – I think I see new [ph] and articles talking about the potential to gain share in the long haul market now again going to Dallas I understand that was kind of an artificial kind of holding back in that market but wonder if you can elaborate a little bit more on -- your comment on long haul market market share opportunity and why maybe Southwest is lagging there and how you kind of ago about increasing that market share? Savi  I think what you are picking up there was an interview that was done with Fortune and I really think that’s old news so that article was really recounting where we’ve come over the last decade so that was much more of a story 10 or 15 years ago.
Today we are very pleased with the progress that we’ve made you are very familiar with the initiatives that we’ve been working on over the last five years.
So I think prospectively that would not be our messaging today that we believe that we can gain share in long haul markets.
Now in terms of the expansion opportunities that we have just geographically since we’re just now getting started flying trans-border obviously those will be long haul opportunities but that's really more a function of us building off of our domestic base having a very small presence internationally and having a lot of potential destinations that we can add to our route map.
So we are pleased with the customer experience as we have it today.
We are very pleased with the market performance whether it’s long medium or short and we are happy to have the 737-800 as a component of our fleet.
It’s just performing exceptionally well.
And if just may what I am trying to understanding Gary is just the opportunity growth 5% to 6% type levels in the future.
I am trying to understand is how much of that comes from domestic I know the past commentary on international has been more of kind of slow growth and it’s 1% of ASM so it’s a small base.
Just trying to figure out as you look out over the next three four years even just how the growth will be – what’s the composition of the growth and what level of growth is reasonable for Southwest? Well the only guidance I can give you on the growth rate is for 2016 and there we’re going to grow 5% to 6%.
Next year about a point or two of that will be international and beyond that we will just take that on a year-to-year basis and we will pursue the opportunities that are the most advantageous for us.
Over time I think that most of our growth opportunities in the future will skew towards domestic but clearly most of these virtually all of the new destinations will be international.
But we are not operating under a route target either way.
We've got decisions that we’re making still even for 2016 as to what we want to do with the additional capacities that we are adding next year.
So again as Tammy has already pointed out there is not much new plan for 2016 anyway because most of it is just going to be the full year effect of decisions that you are already familiar with here in 2015.
And we will take our next question from Julie Yates with Credit Suisse.
Realize it’s little early to comment on 2016 unit cost trends can you offer any color at least directionally on what we should expect in 2016 assuming the pilot deal is ratified and can we look at the Q4 run rate of flat as a good proxy? And Julie you were breaking up a little bit there but I believe that you were asking about our 2016 cost performance if I picked your question up right is that correct? Correct.
Yes I just said it I know it’s a little early but can you offer any color directionally assuming that the pilot deal is ratified and can we look at the Q4 run rate of flat as a good proxy as we move into next year? Sure.
I can provide a little bit of color but we are still working through our 2016 plans so I am not prepared to give you cost guidance here today.
But just a couple of items of note as you are thinking through 2016 while I would expect ongoing benefit from our fleet modernization effort I wouldn’t expect the year-over-year impact to be as significant as this year since we are passing anniversary of 717 so we still get some benefit there.
I’d also anticipate some cost pressures particularly salary raises and benefits I think you noted and in addition while we aren’t prepared to provide an implementation date of our reservation system until we get past a couple of milestones here I would encourage you to keep in mind that we would expect to have some training costs associated with that implementation as well.
So but as always I think we’ve demonstrated year in year out that we are very diligent when it comes to our cost control effort and we will work hard here and 2016 but until we have completed our planning effort here for 2016 I will hold off on giving you any specific guidance until later this year.
I mean to be clear is that going to be later this year or will that be in January with Q4? Well it may be with Q4 with earnings I don’t know Julie well but it will be later I am just not prepared here today to give you specific guidance yet simply because we are still working through our plans with respect to cost for 2016.
Julie the only thing I was going to add to what Tammy said is that again to be clear with the pilot tentative agreement if that is ratified that will be a cost for that work group that will be a cost increase next year but that is an investment in our people it’s an investment in Southwest Airlines it gives us certainty that we can plan around and obviously our objective here is to work together to grow Southwest Airlines.
So obviously we’re very pleased to have the tentative agreement and we should know the results of that voting here in I guess two weeks.
Gary let me ask you something we had talked about I think during the headquarters back in May about you guys continuing to focus on expanding your fundamental margins.
And so you are doing that again in the fourth quarter now that your RASM is back to positive and your costs are flat.
Looking into next year would you expect the spread for RASM to exceed the growth in CASM? That will clearly be the target in that I would just again defer to Tammy and repeat what she said which is once we are ready we will provide the cost outlook for next year but part of the strategy with our growth in ’15 and ’16 is to allow this large percentage of markets that are under development give them a chance to mature next year so the percentage of markets under development a year from now I think Bob will be in about the 5% range -- Yes.
So clearly we are well set on expectations for some tailwinds here with the RASM improvement and do the best job we can to match that up with some of the cost pressures that Tammy has referred to for next year.
But clearly that will be our objective.
And Julie the only other thing I would add to that just keep in mind we will have a full year impact from the Chase agreement.
So just make sure to factor that into your thought as you are thinking about next year.
And you all I know will take some time to evaluate our revenue results but there is quite a bit of noise in those numbers.
They look very solid today whether you tease apart the increase in the stage length the increase in the gauge some of the effective reclassification for accounting purposes for passenger revenues to other there is quite a bit of noise there and it looks very good.
So it’s just helpful that even with the noise the fourth quarter number shows a positive so you don’t have to go through a lot of this analysis but if you are careful and you look at the analysis I think you will be pretty impressed with the revenue performance here in the third quarter also.
And we will take our next question from Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Just first on capacity growth as you look at next year can you just talk about that cadence and maybe compare that the beginning of the year going towards maybe the end of the year? In terms of just the capacity Rajeev yes you will see similar – in terms of ASM growth you will see similar trends in the first quarter as you are seeing here in the fourth quarter and then it will obviously taper out as we go through the year.
And then just continuing on a lot of comment around the revenue environment I was just hoping to get more color Gary touched on sort of competitive environment so just to get your thoughts on sort of what makes that calm down going forward is it fuel is it just lapping certain dynamics just your thoughts there would be great? Well I am chuckling because you are talking about competition in the industry et cetera so we are doing well in this environment we are a low cost carrier we are a low fare brand and we are growing and we love the competition and we love being pro-consumer.
So I think we will continue to manage our growth according to our ability to generate appropriate returns and we’re going to continue to work very hard to deliver on our low fare brand promise to our customers.
So low fares is our specialty and our business and we’ve been profitable for 42 years with that so I would expect that will continue.
And we will take our next question from Darryl Genovesi with UBS.
So Gary you’ve got a couple things going on I guess you’ve got some new IT on the merchandising side and at the same time your average stage length continues to increase.
And I just wondered if you could give us some updated thoughts on any perhaps big picture kind of changes to the product positioning that you are concerned currently and others been various questions asked on this topic over the years which is wondering kind of how you are thinking currently about things like perhaps doing a premium economy perhaps plugging in more of a seat selection ability in the main cabin those types of opportunities anything you could say would be helpful? You bet and again thanks for the question there.
So and you are right we are continuing to invest in the company in various ways so we have investments underway that are physical in nature in terms of airport capacity we just opened up Houston Hobby we’ve got a large project underway at LAX we’ve got a large project underway at Fort Lauderdale which will create international flying capability there.
So that’s one thing that we are doing that I think fits in somewhat with your question.
From a technology perspective we are replacing our reservation system but there is a broader commercial agenda that will roll out Bob over the next five years I would say lot of it will come on line sooner than that.
But that will give us significantly updated capabilities to pursue our commercial goals and then thirdly we also have a similarly large agenda with Mike Van de Ven and his team on the operations side of the house.
So there is a lot of infrastructure investment taking place.
There is a lot of infrastructure spending by the way that will be occurring in 2016 so that will be something that Tammy will want to share when we are ready here at a future date.
We are excited about all of that.
With respect to the customer experience there is no question that we will have better tools in the future to make more tactical decisions in terms of changes to the current approach.
Having said that and looking at the current results and our expectation for 2016 I am very happy with our customer experience and our focus right now is very much on the basics.
It is using the tools that we have to improve the reliability of our operation and also to invest in our people to improve the hospitality of our customer service and that we can do without new technology and it’s something that we are very excited about the technology I think will certainly enhance our ability to better execute against those two goals.
But we are really happy with the product that we have right now.
I think we’ve actually got opportunities to improve further and the kinds of considerations that you are asking for I think something that we can think about in the future but we have no plans to make any changes that are material along those lines.
And then Tammy on the fuel hedge margin it looks like you reversed about half of what you had posted last quarter I think it looks like you’ve got about $200 million left.
Should that come through in Q4? Yes that’s correct.
We provided you the liability and for the remainder of 2015 I want to say that in the 100 million to 125 million range I think it was 116 million.
And we will take our next question from David Fintzen with Barclays.
Question on the Wright Amendment and flying now that you’ve got – I guess about a year thereabout do you view the new flying as markets that have sort of jump started the typical market development cycle where you’re going to get to that 18 to 24 months processing you got there quite fast or do you think it’s sort of these markets from here developed – like they are not finished developing that continue to go? It’s both.
First of all we’ve never had anything like this.
It’s a pretty unique – well it’s a very unique scenario and we were already in those markets already and had a lot of customers and I know you know all of this.
So that clearly gave us a head-start and it allowed us in terms of our planning if you go back 12 months before the launch of these flights it allowed us to be more bold and more aggressive and just believing that those flights wouldn’t be a drag on our earnings as we were – our objective for 2013 ’14 and ’15 was to hit our earnings targets and we’ve done that.
Having said that while they’ve out of the box virtually every flight not literally but the almost every flight has been very successful financially.
They are still developing I mean any – as you know our flight activity is up 50% I believe the available seat mile capacity is up 188%.
We all know that is huge and there are bound to be some imperfections there that need to be tuned.
So we will continue to look at our schedule and we will continue to look at our revenue management and with the idea that we will continue to improve from here.
But it is with the understanding that – and we’ve been very clear about this of the financial performance out of Dallas has been superb from day one.
So the improvement may not be as sharp in those markets as it will be in some others but nonetheless I absolutely would expect that we will continue to see improvement from that capacity.
And just maybe a quick one in terms of – couple of weeks from new we find out about the TA if it is voted down how does the CASM guide change for the fourth quarter? We will – if there is any change to our guidance we will just update you as appropriate later this quarter.
And the first – just trying to help you a little bit here that you don’t get a full quarter change because – and think about the fourth quarter because the effective pay rate change date is November 1 Mike if I remember right.
So it’s not the – we would have a full quarter effect of the pay increase in the fourth quarter.
And in terms of how the contract is implemented are there other things that sort of – from a crew planning standpoint et cetera that sort of hit you cost wise upfront that you kind of manage over time or is it once the sort of contract goes in that’s kind of the – that’s right run rate on the pilot side? Again I think we will need to win that is all certain one way or the other.
I think we will need to go into the effects of the contract.
But at least for the time being you’ve got good guidance from Southwest on the fourth quarter cost outlook.
We booked the accrual for the bonus and with that we are assuming in our guidance that the agreement is ratified.
And we will take our next question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Just two quick ones here.
Tammy the next year’s growth of 5% to 6% ASMs do you have a – what percent on departures I think you gave us departure growth for the fourth quarter and then the new Houston International terminal and it looks like you have been adding international flights from some other markets how should we think about what part of that is international split between international and domestic? For 2016? Yes 2016.
Most of that’s going – it’s going to be weighted obviously towards domestic so a small I guess probably call a point or so would be international and rest of that would be domestic.
And then just the departure growth rate? Yes.
Our seats – we are expecting those to be up – somewhere 3.5 call it 3.5% 3.6% and that is going to – of course Dallas LaGuardia and Reagan National and that’s call it probably half of that and then the remainder with the other – just regional additions that we make here this year.
And just second question I caught it somewhere in the press I think it was reported that you paid $120 million to get access to the Love Field gates so I was just wondering maybe if you could talk about how you got to that share value and whether or not – I mean do you have exclusivity of those gates or will you have to accommodate Delta what’s the story there? Well I will answer the question Mike and I just want to recognize that we are under a gag order from the federal judge on this case.
So I am going to be very careful not to – not comply with his order.
But the value was pretty straightforward we simply looked at the equivalent values for slot controlled airports slots are readily traded and I would argue to you that there is no more effectively slot controlled airport in the United States than Dallas Love Field.
So it was pretty straightforward on how we arrived at that value and obviously you heard our results from Love Field.
With respect to the exclusivity this sub-lease operates like any other airport lease where yes we do have preferential rights to the gates and then are required to make reasonable accommodation which simply means if you have room available then you can’t prohibit someone from using the gates and that’s the way it works that’s where it works at Love Field that’s the way it works everywhere.
Obviously there is no room at Love Field for anybody other than Southwest on our gates by the way we are operating.
Again Mike just one clarification the numbers I gave you are for a carryover and it wasn’t clear if your question was carryover or in total but it’s not going to move a lot it’s probably somewhere in that 4% the seats are probably somewhere in the 4% growth range.
We will take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
We all think of Dallas as being Dallas obviously that is very competitive and the reality is two different airports there and at times they behave like different markets.
So I love to hear what you guys have discovered as the Wright Amendment route is still up about the competitive dynamics in Dallas.
In terms of sort of when Love Field and DFW truly compete with each other and maybe when they don’t as in maybe does the competitiveness become a little bit less important during trough period travel times and are there times maybe these two airports may be distinct to – more distinct to one another than maybe a lot of people realize it at a high level anything you can share of your experience are appreciated.
I would be happy to.
I would say more than any other dual or multiple airport market that I can think of they operate as one airport and they have – I have been here for 30 years and they always have.
So the prices are matched they are matched obviously when it’s Swiss Airlines leaving in the market it’s been rate historically to have any low fare offering at DFW because of the dominance of that airport.
So really it was left to Southwest in this market to provide that low fare competition.
That changed materially in 2006 when President Bush signed the Wright Amendment compromise because we could then begin offering itineraries beyond the Wright Amendment area and you saw prices come down significantly.
Now we are able of course after 2014 to fly those markets non-stop and so there are more seats available at lower fares you’re seeing the increase in traffic not just at low but by virtue of that increased competition over DFW.
What we’ve typically seen over a 30-year period is as we’ve grown with a focus on local traffic the hub and spoke carriers and especially in DFW began to de-emphasize that and shift their focus to flow traffic which is why in the old days you’d say one-third of the flight is coming from Southwest one third from the City Pair one-third from Delta one-third from American and Southwest would have two-thirds of the traffic on that segment.
Dallas Houston was my all time favourite example and that phenomenon continued more and more and more because they simply could not compete effectively with our cost on those – especially those short haul segment.
So they absolutely compete I talk to customers here in the DFW area all the time who tell me that they choose between DFW and Southwest for various reasons or rather Love Field for various reasons and – I mean the same situation I can drive to DFW just as fast as I can drive to Love Field and obviously I drive to Love Field but they are very close together and it is much more of a single market than Houston as an example or the Washington DC area maybe it’s more akin to the Bay Area where Oakland and SFO I think are pretty inter-changeable but it operates as one market.
And then as it relates to fuel hedging Tammy can you talk about some of the risk parameters that you guys put in place when you think about taking out a hedge position and how much you’re willing to absolute in terms of not just premium expenses in terms of sort of downside and upside and collateral being posted what are the risk parameters you use when putting on hedges and when you make unfortunate hedging choices is there a level of accountability that exists within your department if the bet – if the wrong choice is made? I’d be happy to walk you through that Hunter.
As you are aware fuel represents one of our largest expenses these are our first or second and it’s really pretty straightforward.
Our fuel hedging program is designed to provide an insurance when prices are rising.
Obviously when prices are low that’s not as great of a risk and I think this quarter is evidence of that where we are producing very nice earnings.
So we really look at our fuel hedging to help us mitigate the impact of the volatile swings that we see in fuel prices and just provide us at least a little more certainty with respect to what kind of fuel spikes we might have as we are planning for the future.
So in terms of what do we think about I think it’s all the things that you would expect us to we certainly do consider our balance sheet in determining how much risk we’re able to absorb either on the high side or the low side with respect to risk that we might be willing to accept with on the floor side.
But that’s simply what we do.
We really do a lot of scenario planning to make sure that we are comfortable with the possible prices – possible fluctuations in fuel as we work through our plan.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit of insight.
So we are looking up and down the curve to make sure that we’re comfortable when prices are high as well as when prices are low.
And we will take our next question from Joseph Denardi with Stifel.
Gary I think in that Fortune interview you also talked about potentially getting to a 90% load factor within five years.
So I am wondering if that’s how you are managing the airline whether Southwest can handle that operationally and whether you have the appropriate ancillary revenue stream to have that strategy make sense? To be honest with you I don’t remember saying that.
You might be right.
Mike Van de Ven sitting next to me is about to punch me saying that but I don’t know – honestly I don’t know if 90% is a realistic number or not I really don’t know the context of the statement.
But today -- I will answer it today rather than trying to reconcile or whatever is in that article.
Last year Mike we were an 83% annual load factor that is 15 points higher than what we produced 15 years ago in the year 2000 and a lot of that increase – of course it’s all been necessary that we’ve had economic imperatives to adjust our schedule to have fewer empty seats we are also carrying more connecting passengers still heavily weighted towards non-stop passengers but I think that that’s all important background to think about your question.
We lag the industry think a lot of our employees believe that we are the highest low factor but actually we lag in the industry because we don’t hub and spoke and we don’t schedule so intentionally for connecting customers.
We’ve had not more of that way in recent years but not nearly as much as the rest of the industry.
So it seems to me unless we continue to evolve more towards trying to fill airplanes up with connections we are going to be somewhere here in the low 80s we are running a bit ahead this year over year ago we just had a record low factor for the third quarter which was at 85% that was up one point versus a year ago it feels like we will probably beat last year’s 83%-ish 2014 load factor Mike that we had so I think we can kind of inch things along from here and I am happy at these levels as long as the rest of our economics continue to be successful.
So one of the things that we’ve tried to do over the last five to 10 years is have more customers per departure so we would be relying less on having to raise our fares.
That’s a great way to increase revenues and still keep our fares low.
And obviously we’re getting closer to the point where that may not be as achievable.
I think we have opportunities to manage our revenues better with revenue management techniques that’s one of the things that will come with our new reservation system and by adding value in areas like our frequent flier program.
So very pleased with the improvement that we’ve seen with our credit card compensation there.
So we will continue to look for opportunities to grow our unit revenues and I think for the most part that will need to come from optimizing our route network and less so in terms of trying to fill more empty seats.
And then I think at the investor day you also said that once you get beyond 2015 the growth out of Love that you see yourselves as a low single digit type grower domestically.
Is that still the case or has that changed at all? I am sorry I was thinking about your question so is the question about our domestic growth opportunities to grow beyond Love Field? Well no I think we’ve got – we have a large opportunity to grow it depends upon a number of things it depends on fuel prices fares the economy all things that you know depends on our competition but as we see things today there are more than ample opportunities to grow domestically and as I have said many many times we will want to grow in a sensible way and we want to make sure that we maintain a strong balance sheet we maintain hitting our profit targets our return targets but it is important to grow it’s important to keep the customers that we have.
We will need to continue to add service to meet their needs as long as the traffic is growing.
So not growing is obviously not – it’s not a good alternative but as the domestic economy continues to grow and especially if the short haul traffic continues to rebuild as – some of the early signs we’ve seen here 2015 then we will have ample opportunities to grow.
I am reluctant to put a number on it.
Whatever I say really doesn’t matter we’re going to grow at the rate that is justified by our financial parameters as well as the demand in the marketplace.
And if we are lucky to have growth opportunities like we’re experiencing right now out of Dallas out of Washington out of Houston International then that will be fantastic and we will grow and we will manage it and we will continue hopefully to have a record earnings that would be our goal.
And then just a quick one Tammy can you provide what the no-show fee revenue was in the quarter? Sure I’d be happy to pull that for you.
It was 16 million for third quarter.
And ladies and gentlemen we have time for one more question.
We will take our last question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore.
Only two from me I am not going to ask you six or seven.
So on the other revenue line it looks like you increased nicely even excluding the new credit card agreement.
Can you just talk about what is driving that and trends you expect going forward? Yes.
As I mentioned – as opened the call we have had a nice growth in our ancillary revenue obviously the Chase agreement is benefitting significantly in the other revenue line.
So that’s going to be the large – that’s going to be the biggest piece of that Duane.
And we also had a freight – freight and others are also performing well so we were actually quite pleased because our ancillaries offset as you know we had the AirTran back seats coming off that we were pleased that that offset our revenue but it’s primarily the Chase agreement and in addition we had a nice showing with EarlyBird and Upgraded Boarding those are also contributors to our other revenue growth and I think those are really the headlines.
And one other note is just charters we also had a very strong growth during the third quarter as well.
I think our charters were up in the 20% to 30% range.
Duane again just I am saying the same thing Tammy is but the Chase deal – if I do my arithmetic here right accounts for all that about 25 million of the increase.
So there is a $40 million adjustment out of passenger into other in addition to the 130 million that we’ve been talking about for the third quarter.
So there is actually 170 million in other.
I think the trick was to get beyond AirTran because it was shrinking for a while and now it looks like it’s growing even ex this deal.
And then on the domestic res migration it sounds like you are messaging little bit on the cost side the things that we can sort of look forward to on the revenue side levers that you haven’t pulled yet can you give any update there is it 2017 is it 2018 when can we start to get excited about the new levers that you haven’t pulled yet? Thanks for taking the questions.
Well I am thinking to myself about the new levers that you must be referring to.
In terms of the levers that we have been talking about I think it’s primarily our new reservation system with some enhanced revenue management capabilities so I will let Tammy talk about that.
But beyond that – and she has already made this point – you get the full year benefit of the new credit card deal which is something we are excited about for next year and then we are working really hard to mature our route network it’s gone through a lot of change over the last couple of years we are absolutely expecting that we are going to drive more performance from that especially with the maturing of the developing markets.
But Tammy anything else you can add there? No I really don’t have much to add to that.
The first phase of that I agree would be the revenue management opportunity and just continuing to optimize the network and then as we get past – turning on our new reservation system we will certainly provide a more insight at that time.
So when we would you expect it to turn on is that a ’16 event? We have not given the exact date yet but what we have said is that we will be on our current reservation through the end of 2016 and we have transitioned the systems beyond that.
So we’re getting closer so just stay tuned and we will be back in probably not too much longer with more details on the timeline but we’re just not ready to lay out – all of that out for you today.
That concludes the analyst portion of today’s call.
Thank you for joining.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion of today’s call.
I’d like to first introduce Linda Rutherford Vice President of Communications and Outreach.
Good day everyone.
We’ll just jump straight to the questions so Tom if you could instruct them on how to queue up we will get started.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Michael Lindenberger with Dallas Morning News.
I mean I wanted to ask you – you saved a lot of money on fuel and you’ve made a lot of efforts to try to keep your prices low by finding other revenue I guess by volume.
Is there any calculation that you ought to invest some of these savings rather than share buybacks but in more aggressive pricing to drive up your volume and just sort of give the flying public the benefit that you guys have been sharing with your shareholders currently? Well first of all we want to be America’s low fare leader and I think that we are.
We are the only – I think the only – I was going to say the only major carrier – we’re the only carrier that doesn’t nickel and dime with bag fees change fees so we offer a tremendous value and we have – we are meeting our financial goals with respect to our cash and our balance sheet and we are trying to serve all of our constituents our people our customers our shareholders so we are trying to take care of each one of those.
Nobody a year ago saw a 50% decline in fuel prices looming.
Nobody saw that and so logic would tell you that as we sit here today it is going to be very difficult for any of us you me Tammy anybody to predict what fuel prices will be a year from now.
What I can tell you from experience is that it’s very difficult to increase fares rapidly.
Customers hate that and it tends to chase away demand very rapidly.
Everyone of our legacy competitors that we compete against has been bankrupt over the past decade and bankrupted primarily because of surging fuel prices.
So I think speaking for Southwest I am very reluctant to take our customers through a rollercoaster ride fares and if we are all lucky and energy prices remain low for an extended period of time I can assure you that we will continue to offer low fares and continue to add flights and grow Southwest Airlines.
So that’s where the money is going.
It’s going back to invest in the infrastructure for Southwest we’re building new airports we are building new technology for commercial purposes for operational purposes and we are buying more airplanes.
We are replacing our older airplanes and we are also adding growth so that we can expand in exciting places like we did last week by launching new international flights out of Houston.
If I can just ask one quick follow up you mentioned the legacy airlines obviously you guys have sort of stayed out of the flight between them and the Gulf carriers but it does implicate this sort of – you’re all in the same competitive mix not obviously as much on the international carriers but I am just wondering if you think there is any weakness in the legacy carriers position of arguing against the Gulf carriers huge gains in the US market base in large part by lower fares and better service? Well I would certainly acknowledge that we are all in the same industry but I would also be quick to add that we often take a differing view – with respect to the particular issue that you mentioned it is not our priority we haven’t spent any time on it and therefore we just have not taken a position.
We’ll go next to Andrea Ahles with the Star-Telegram.
Hi Gary if you -- I heard you talk on the call about the Love Field case with Delta in front of a federal judge.
Delta was asked last week if they plan to appeal the ruling if it goes against them and I wanted to ask you the same question will you appeal – the Southwest appeal the judge’s ruling if it goes against Southwest? Well really I want to honor the judge’s order here and comply first of all.
We are looking forward to the decision and would expect that hopefully soon and I think we will respond accordingly at that time.
You are not willing to come out like Delta side and say that yes we definitely plan to appeal this to the Circuit Court if it goes against that.
I am not going to – not comply with the judge’s order to not comment on this case.
And we will take our next question from David Conny [ph] with The Associated Press.
I’ve got two questions because I think the first one is probably a quick answer but can you say what your early load factors are on those international flights out of Houston and also on the cost side that labor cost line really stands out and even if that includes the pilots ratification bonus even if it does you are still up 14.4% and I am wondering if that is going to be a trend that your investors should expect to see going forward? David on the latter that’s really profit sharing that’s driving this.
So I would welcome that kind of increase but yes that’s our variable pay component when the company does well our employees do even better.
I’ve talked more – I forgot your first easy question.
Houston Hobby load factors international – Well I can report this we’ve got by far the majority of our destinations or leisure destinations those load factors are consistently very high.
These are brand new markets.
I am expecting us to have periods of time now when we have pretty light loads.
The only markets that we’ve typically seen softer loads than we would like would be the more business markets which is primarily Mexico City and some of the flight times there aren’t optimal yet with the slot controls that they have in place.
But I was there on Thursday and virtually all every flight going out there was full.
So early returns are pretty much what we would have expected and I think we will do very well in that market the fares have been very high we’re going to come in with famous low fares and would very much expect to have the Southwest effect to kick in.
And we have time for one more question.
We will take our last question from Jeffrey Dastin with Reuters.
Has Southwest finished its response to the Justice Department civil investigative demand and kind of give any other updates on where that process stands now? I think the only thing that I can appropriately comment on is that we are fully complying with the civil investigative demand.
Certainly we’ve worked hard and turned over a lot of information but as to exactly where that stands I can’t really comment any further.
End of Q&amp;A And at this time I would like to turn the call back to Ms.
Rutherford for any closing remarks.
Thank you all very much.
Of course if there is any follow up questions don’t hesitate to call us or you can always reach out at swamedia.com and we will take care of you.
Thanks and have a great day.
And this concludes today’s call.
Thank you for joining.
Welcome to the Southwest Airlines Fourth Quarter and Annual 2015 Conference Call.
My name is Tom and I will be moderating today’s conference.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available on southwest.com in the Investor Relations section.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Ms.
Marcy Brand Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Tom and good morning everyone.
And welcome to today’s call to discuss fourth quarter 2015 results.
Joining me on the call today we have Gary Kelly Chairman President and CEO; Tammy Romo Executive Vice President and CFO Bob Jordan Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer Mike Van de Ven Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
Please note today’s call will include forward-looking statements and because these statements are based on the company’s current intent expectations and projections.
They are not guarantees of future performance and a variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
As this call will include references to non-GAAP results excluding special items please reference this morning’s press release in the Investor Relations section of southwest.com for further information regarding forward-looking statements and reconciliations of non-GAAP results to GAAP results.
At this time I’d like to go ahead and turn the call over to Gary for opening remarks.
Thank you Marcy and thanks everybody for joining us today for our year-end 2015 earnings call.
This was another superb and critical year for Southwest and I am very grateful to all of our people for their hard work.
I want to especially thank them for these terrific results.
Tammy is going to take us through the quarter but I want to offer up not a comprehensive overview but at least a few highlights.
Of course this was by far our best year of earnings in our entire history and that includes a record return on invested capital of 32.7%.
We no doubt benefited from 29% lower economic jet fuel prices.
Obviously that was a major component of our earnings.
But so were record load factors and revenues were up also very solid 5.6%.
It was a strategic year for us in that we had secular growth opportunities at Dallas arising from the refuel of Wright Amendment and of course that has been a phenomenal success.
We’ve also had secular growth opportunities out of Washington Reagan and LaGuardia that is arising from the acquisition of slots.
It was also a year that follow at the end of 2014 the completion of the AirTran our acquisition and integration.
a lot of new markets resulted from that.
And then of course it was also a year where we had a unique opportunity in which to build in international terminal and launch international flights out of Houston Hobby.
That was for the first time since 1969 by the way.
All of that added up to capacity growth of 7.2% and then of course we were delighted that traffic was stronger than that.
It grew 8.8%.
And as a backdrop the economy for last year was solid travel demand was solid and of course energy prices moved even lower.
So the convergence of all of these things made 2015 very successful year but again one that was also very strategic for us.
And we accomplished virtually everything that we set out to do and in some cases where we didn’t we at least laid significant progress.
I'm very happy about that but certainly that includes generating record operating cash flow strong free cash flow and we also returned a record $1.4 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends.
So I want to make sure that I highlight two announcements from this morning's release.
First of all we announced that we will soon launch a $500 million accelerated share repurchase program.
I'm sure you all saw that.
And then second we recently ordered 33 new 737-800s from Boeing and that is spread out for delivery in '16 '17 and '18; and the sole purpose for that is to accelerate further the retirement of our Classic fleet.
So mechanically we did that by exercising six options and then on top of that we placed new orders for 27 more.
So you get to 33 more new airplanes.
And then in addition to that on our fleet chart you'll also see that we have committed to two more used aircraft.
But I just want to reiterate that our capacity plans for the next five years are essentially unchanged by this announcement.
We're replacing the Classics with next generation airplanes.
And then in particular our capacity plans for 2016 are unchanged and we still plan to grow this year between 5% and 6%.
So the financial operations and customer service effects of these fleet announcement are all very favorable and Tammy will take us through all that.
Work continues along three basic themes this year as far as investment goes for the future.
One as we have significant airport renovation and infrastructure projects underway across the country some we're managing some we're not.
But big project at LAX Fort Lauderdale Chicago Midway and New Orleans.
In that Fort Lauderdale in particular will bring on new capacity for us in 2017.
Number two we've got significant commercial technology program underway and the headline on that of course is the replacement of a reservation system that's also targeted for 2017.
And then finally we have a major program underway with our operations technology and the headline on that is the new 737 MAX along with other very significant technology improvements that [Indiscernible] has planned and that is also a 2017 deliverable at least with respect to the MAX.
So for this year in addition to focus on these investment programs we want to do a handful of things.
We want to continue to manage our network growth and mature our developing markets.
Number two we want to compete vigorously in an increasingly competitive environment.
Number three we want to continue to work on and improve our reliability of our operations.
Next we want to continue our focused on the hospitality of our customer service and through all of this we want to continue to grow our unit revenues our margins and our earnings.
So there is nothing really fancy about or 2016; pretty basic blocking and tackling things.
But clearly 2017 is shaping up to be a pretty big year for Southwest Airlines.
I just want to highlight for our Southwest people finally that our profit sharing for 2015 will eclipse last year's record and increase by 74% to an all-time record of $620 million and I am very pleased about that.
I'm very proud of them and their hard work and I am very pleased that they're being justly rewarded with that.
So Tammy with that quick overview I'd love to turn it over to you and have you take us through the quarter.
All right thank you Gary and welcome everyone.
We're very pleased to report a standard year of record performance in 2015 representing our 43 consecutive year of profit.
Our annual earnings excluding special items were a record $2.4 billion or $3.52 per diluted share which was an increase of 75% year-over-year.
Our fourth quarter performance was also record setting and represented 11 consecutive quarter of profit.
Fourth quarter net income excluding special items increased 46% year-over-year to $591 million or $0.90 per share which was in line with consensus.
Operating income excluding special items was a record $992 million which produced a 5-point improvement in operating margin of 19.9% which is the best fourth quarter margin we've seen since 1978 and it's also worth nothing like last quarter with and without the benefit substantially large rail prices our earnings and margins improved year-over-year.
And the record that really stands out is free cash return on invested capital excluding special items of 32.7%.
I would like congratulate all of our outstanding employees on these fantastically built and like Gary thrilled we can reward our employees with a record breaking profit sharing $620 million for 2015.
Our total operating revenues in the fourth quarter were a record $5 billion up 7.5% year-over-year on a capacity increase of 8.4%.
Passenger revenues were also a record $4.6 billion.
Demand for our low fares remained very strong throughout the quarter resulting in more than 11% growth in traffic and an all-time fourth quarter record high load factor.
A softer yield environment resulted in a 7% decline in passenger revenue yields and an $8 decrease in our average fares.
Our fourth quarter operating revenues included a $125 million net benefit from the amended Chase contract and the required accounting treatment and this $125 million benefit was about 2 to 3-point improvement to RASM.
For 2016 we expect to realize a year-over-year incremental benefit from the amended Chase agreement and accounting change but once we reach third quarter we will of course lapse the year-over-year benefit.
For our first quarter 2016 our estimated incremental benefit is approximately $110 million and that is included in the RASM guidance that we provided.
Our developmental markets continue to perform in line with our expectations and Dallas continued to outperform the system on margins and return.
International is also developing as planned including our inaugural service from Houston which was launched during the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter RASM declined 0.7% which was in line with our guidance.
Considering a point impact from development markets and roughly 2-point impact from increased [indiscernible] in space we're very pleased with our fourth quarter record and likely industry leading revenue performance.
Thus far in January demand for our low fares remained strong soft yet stable yields have continued thus far into first quarter and based on our current bookings and revenue trends we are estimating first quarter 2016 RASM will be flat year-over-year.
In light of the current yield environment we're very pleased with our first quarter revenue outlook at this juncture.
Our freight and other revenue production was also favorable.
In addition to the incremental benefit from the amended Chase card that I mentioned earlier our ancillary revenue production was strong led by growth in EarlyBird and our upgraded boarding revenues.
And we currently expect first quarter 2016 freight and other revenues to be comparable with fourth quarter 2015.
I'll turn to our cost performance now and our fourth quarter unit cost excluding special items decreased just under 7% year-over-year due to substantially lower fuel prices and cost control particularly our fleet modernization efforts.
Our economic fuel cost decreased almost $200 million year-over-year and that was driven by a 23% decline in fuel prices.
With the current state of the oil market and oversupply situation we currently expect another year-over-year decline in first quarter and full year 2016 economic fuel cost.
Based on our current hedge portfolio for this year and market prices as of last Friday we expect our first quarter fuel price to be approximately $1.70 per gallon and I'll also provide you our estimates by quarter here.
Second quarter is expected to be approximately $1.60 per gallon and second half we expect that to be in the $1.80 to $1.95 per gallon range again based on last Friday.
And that brings us to a full year 2016 fuel price per gallon in the $1.70 to $1.75 range.
So our market prices we're still benefiting from lower fuel prices and currently estimate over $500 million in economic fuel savings this year.
Our first quarter 2016 estimated fuel price per gallon is below last year's $2 per gallon and represents the lowest economic fuel price we've realized since third quarter of 2006.
With respect to our hedge book our strong profit margins today call for a more conservative approach to hedging in this low fuel environment.
We will continue to manage our existing portfolio to minimize cost as we burn off our 2016 and 2017 position.
Prospectively we'll focus on catastrophic protection with no downside risk particularly in this environment for 2018.
As we reported or 35% hedged and that’s with all calls and call spread.
So while our hedging philosophy has not changed our tactics have in this environment.
And we will manage through our portfolio and just fourth quarter of 2015 we participated in 85% of the market decline.
So I’ll take you through our non-fuel cost quickly.
Excluding fuel and special items our unit costs were flat including a 30% year-over-year increase in profit sharing that our employees earned for fourth quarter 2015.
Our profit showing expense accrued in the fourth quarter was $136 million and that brings again the total for the year to understanding $620 million which again was a 75% year-over-year.
Excluding profit sharing and special items our non-fuel unit costs decrease 1.1% year-over-year which was towards the more favorable end of our cost guidance due primarily to a reduction in advertise and lower airport costs than we had expected.
Our fleet modernization produced the expected $700 million an EBIT this year and that’s even with the drop in fuel prices.
Based on our current cost trends we expect first quarter 2016 CASM excluding fuel special items and profit sharing to increase approximately 2% year-over-year.
And keep in mind that roughly one point of the year-over-year increase is driven by accelerated depreciation which of course is a non-cash charge from our recent decision to accelerate the retirement of the Classic fleet that Gary took you through.
For our full year 2016 we are currently estimating a 1% year-over-year increase in our unit cost excluding fuel our special items and profit sharing.
And again this modest cost inflation is almost entirely driven by the accelerated depreciation.
And as a quick reminder as we noted in our press release this morning this cost guidance only reflects our current labor contracts.
Therefore it does not include the impact from the tentative agreement currently out for vote with our ramp operations provisioning and cargo both.
I’ll move to our balance sheet and cash flows.
And of course our balance sheet and cash flows remain very strong.
We ended the quarter with $3.1 billion in cash and short-term investments and that's as opposed to being $835 million in cash collateral to third-parties.
We generated $3.2 billion in operating cash flow in 2015 and incurred $2 billion in capital expenditures.
For 2016 we continue to estimate CapEx of approximately $2 billion and I’ll cover our aircraft CapEx when I’ll review our fleet plans so shortly.
We returned $1.4 billion to shareholders in 2015 which exceeded our free cash flow of $1.1 billion.
And we will have $200 million remaining on the $1.5 billion purchase program after we launch our 500 million accelerated share repurchase which we will be doing soon.
We repaid $213 million in debt and capital lease obligations during 2015 and issued a $500 million senior unsecured note at an all-time low 2.65%.
And this was in light of our debt maturities of approximately $600 million here in 2016.
Our leverage including off balance sheet aircraft leases remains in the low to mid 30% range and of course we are very proud of our strong balance sheet with an aggressive investment grade rating that was further strengthened during fourth quarter with an upgrade to BBB+ and that followed an upgrade in July by Moody’s to BAA1.
We’re focused on preserving the strength in our balance sheet and cash flows while continuing our long standing track record of returning significant value to our shareholders.
I’ll move now to our fleet and capacity plans.
We ended 2015 with 704 aircraft in our fleet as planned and outlined in this morning's release.
Our press release also included our future delivery schedule that I pointed to that we restructured at the end of December in conjunction with our decision to further accelerate the retirement of our Classic fleet.
I’ll quickly take you through the revisions that they included the conversion of our remaining 25 NextGen-700 from orders to NextGen-800 from orders.
And it included the addition as Gary mentioned of 33-800 firm deliveries and as he noted some of those were options that we had exercised.
And we had two additional -700s.
We now intend to retire our Classic fleet no later than mid-2018 and that's compared to our previous plan that have retirement skewing into 2021.
And we had a 129 Classic aircraft in our fleet at yearend.
Roughly two thirds of our Classic aircraft were impacted by our decision to further accelerate the retirement; and the incremental in seakage [ph] aircraft in our restructured order book is intended to back flow these aircrafts while maintaining our current plans to keep our year-over-year fleet growth over the next three years to no more than 2% on average.
The accelerated retirement plan is estimated to produce cumulative EBIT improvement of approximately $200 million over the acceleration period and that's primarily through maintenance and fuel cost savings.
And I'd also note that this incorporates the approximate $100 million in accelerated depreciation that I referred to earlier.
And the overall customer experience will improve as well with a fully Wi-Fi equipped more modernized fleet.
Our future from capital commitments increased approximately 400 million as a result of the order book revisions and our 2015 capital expenditures increased $200 million to $300 million and that was primarily related or that was related to restructuring of our order book.
Our aircraft CapEx for 2016 is still estimated to fall in the $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion range and our average aircraft CapEx for 2017 and 2018 combined is currently estimated to be in a similar range as 2016 which was very manageable.
While the details of our Boeing agreement are confidential the economics of our NZ order book are very supportive of our continued fleet modernization efforts.
Overall the internal rate of return on accelerating retirement of our Classic fleet is estimated to exceed our -- the return of investment and this is after tax which we reported to you in 2015 of almost 21%.
So it was a very easy decision for us.
We are still optimizing our retirement schedule over the next few years but we expect in 2016 with roughly 720 aircraft.
With regards to capacity we ended 2015 as planned and we continue to plan for 5% to 6% year-over-year growth this year.
And as we previously noted the majority of 2016 capacity growth is related to the annualized impact of our 2015 expansion.
So in conclusion we ended an exceptionally strong 2015 with a record fourth quarter and our outlook for first quarter calls for another quarter of strong operating margins approaching 20%.
Despite a soft yield environment demand held strong producing record revenues.
We currently estimate our first quarter RASM will be flat year-over-year based on revenue and booking trends.
That's for 2016 which suggest the continuation of the strong demand and a soft yield environment.
Substantially lower fuel prices and other cost controls contributed to our favorable cost performance in 2015 and our outlook for 2016 calls for modest cost inflation excluding fuel special items and profit sharing.
And again that was driven largely by our decision to accelerate the retirement of our Classic fleet which is expected to produce a significant cost savings and an EBIT improvement and the $200 million range.
We continue to benefit from lower fuel prices and currently estimate this year's fuel cost to be more than $500 million lower year-over-year based on Friday's prices and including our current fuel hedge.
Our balance sheet is industry leading and our cash flows remain strong and as ever we are committed to creating value and we are very pleased that we were able to restore over 100% of our free cash flow to shareholders in 2015.
And as we announced this morning we will be launching our $500 million accelerated share repurchasing which will leave $200 million remaining on our outstanding 1.5 billion buyback authorization.
And again our pretax return on invested capital was an astounding 32.7%.
I would like to close by thanking all of our employees for their outstanding contribution to these very strong results.
So with that Tom we are ready to take questions.
Thank you.
And will now open our analyst portion of today's call.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you for waiting.
We'll begin our first question from Jamie Baker with JP Morgan.
I'm hoping to ask 2.5 questions here.
The half-question Tammy you noted also as a TA -- two TAs out right now they guided this morning and the impact assuming ratification.
Are you willing do the same in terms of what that would mean for the XL [ph] cabin guide you just gave? No Jamie just out of respect the process of -- we'll update that as we progress here.
Sure understood.
So why don't we move on to Gary here and another question on labor.
Given your history of profitability it's no surprise that your 737 wage rates came to represent the peak for U.S.
Airlines easily over the last decade.
But as the competitor wage bar begin to rise above yours currently is it inevitable the Southwest pass to establish a peak with every successful contract; or put differently is your business model predicated on maintaining above market pay scales or was that just a byproduct of how poorly the competition was at one point? Well I am going to try to give you -- I am going to try to answer your question and I want to try to be diplomatic and respectful of the negotiations process here.
But I would just say our business model Jamie is great service and low cost.
And we -- every single employee at Southwest Airlines signs up for that and of course we all need to continue to work hard every day to deliver on those two things.
So that is our business model not.
There has never been a promise to be the highest paying airline in the industry.
And so to the extent that we're able to do that because we produced great results I think that is terrific.
But all of that needs to obviously be negotiated with our labor groups and that's what happens and that's the way that works.
I think the overriding objective for us is to continue to have a healthy company meaning that we are safe and that we're financially strong.
And in order to do that we've got continue to offer great service and our objective is to the low cost producer and live up to the low fare brand promise that we have.
And as a follow up to that last point you've made and I guess this echoes the discussion that you and I had at the Wings Club.
You've never faced a larger percentage of competitive capacity that have lower costs than your own than you currently do.
In fact last time you faced a formidable competitor with a superior cost structure as near as I could tell you brought them.
So I'm wondering how growth at Spirit and Frontier given their cost structures alters how you think about your own business going forward? Let me just affirm virtually everything you said.
The only edit I would make is that actually when we acquired Air Tran their costs were not lower than ours interestingly enough at least by my analysis.
Fair enough.
But clearly there are carriers today whose costs are lower.
On that point you and I certainly agree.
And first of all I think that is inventible that overtime that an industry will get more competitive especially when there is a disrupter as there has been with Southwest Airlines.
So it is not shocking at all that we have more intense competition today than in any time in our history.
And it is a challenge for our Company and something that I'm very confident that our people will rise up to that challenge.
But indeed it will put an obligation on us to continue to innovate and work very very hard so that we don’t lose our low fare leadership position in the country.
So absolutely it is different and I think we recognize that the industry is more competitive today than it has been ever.
I would quickly add by the way that Southwest has never been stronger.
We've never had the route network.
We've never had the depth and the breadth of the service that we offer.
And we've never had a balance sheet this strong we've never had earnings this strong.
So it's really up to us to continue to make sure that we compete and be the best at service and price.
We’ll take our next question from Duane Pfennigwerth with Evercore ISI.
So the hedge liabilities you called out for '16 and '17 appreciate that detail.
I'm just wondering can that change or is it fully locked in at this point? In other words if fuel goes higher does it shrink? It is if fuel goes higher it certainly shrinks.
I'll start there.
And no it is not entirely locked in.
But I think the main takeaway there is that we -- as prices go down so does our fuel bill as well.
So yes I gave you a pretty good amount of detail there on our hedge as I walk through our -- my comments there.
So I think we're positioned very well.
We know what we have to manage and I think we're positioned well if fuel prices go up or if they go down from here.
And then as we think about the capacity that you had in development last year and specifically the Redmond markets can you help us quantify the benefit you expect having less of that capacity in development? And if you can help us with sort of the full pie maybe you could just talk about the markets that you launched in late 2014 that you should've had basically a year of experience with by the fourth quarter if you saw sort of significant RASM improvement there.
And thanks for taking the questions? Duane you were fading in and out but I think we got the gist of your question.
Yes we have -- we can quantify at least from an internal perspective what we think the opportunity is there.
I would just start out by acknowledging that that assumes all else as equal and – but I'm sure that you and everyone else understand that.
Yes just a couple of comments there to maybe help you out Duane.
We had again like you said a high number -- high percentage of our markets were under development.
You know what those markets are and I'll remind you that the high percentages did include the market that we were converting from AirTran over to Southwest.
So the point I'm making there is not all of the markets are created equal.
Obviously we reported a lot on Dallas Love Field and are very pleased with how those markets are progressing.
But we wouldn’t expect our international markets as an example to mature at the rate we would say Dallas or even the AirTran markets.
So they're all a little bit different but I can at least help quantify the impact we're expecting here in the first quarter.
And if you -- it's probably in terms of -- it's probably at 1 point I call it -- maybe not even a 1-point impact from development markets.
So as we move in to 2016 at least my expectation would be that we'll get some tailwinds from our development markets as those continue to mature.
We'll take our next question from Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Just two for you guys.
The first I guess with oil coming down so much and obviously you're going to see that benefit from the fuel numbers you provided.
How does that impact how you're thinking about the business either from a revenue or a capacity standpoint if at all? And then second question was just you announced the aircraft order today and the acceleration.
What drove down -- what changed over the last couple of months.
It seems like the opportunity has been out there for some time? Tammy I'll take a shot and if you want to chime in please do on both of those.
I would admit to you all that it is -- the year is off to a very concerning start when it comes to headlines around the world.
It's almost as if we're living in a different dimension here at Southwest and from what I've heard from some of our competitor reports too.
So our business continues to be strong but I will quickly admit that there are concerning headlines around the world.
So then you translate this to oil prices and living in Texas my entire life this is an oil and gas state and yes it is concerning the impact it will have on companies and debt payments and jobs and so on.
There's no question that the United States has benefited from the oil and gas boom that was occurring over the last X number of years since the -- really since the recession.
So yes that's all a concern that no doubt you have.
We share that.
But at least in terms of seeing any manifestation of that in our business we just – we don’t see it.
Even our oil and gas markets if you want to call them that produced very strong results in the fourth quarter.
Several of our markets have year-over-year -- our yield pressure if you will.
So that's not unique to those markets but they still produce very very handsome returns.
But yes it's just something we're going to have to keep our eye on.
And I offer that background just as an acknowledgment that we're just living in a world where we need to continue to be alert and be cautious.
I will then follow-on and say that we feel like our plan for 2015 was sound and it turned out to be so.
We think that the follow-on plan for 2016 is also sound.
It is more conservative then what we had committed ourselves for last year.
And as Tammy and I have both reiterated we’ve not made any change with our capacity outlook.
And especially for 2016 we’re still right in the 5% to 6% range and I think all of us would be prepared that if for whatever reason travel demand weakens then we would want to address that and then at least discuss what kind of options we have to react on the down side.
But in terms of taking advantage further advantage of low energy prices and boosting our capacity we don’t have any plans to do that.
Tammy before we go into the second question anything you would like to add? No I think that was perfect.
And in terms of your question on why did we decide to accelerate the Classics.
I guess I just point that to our fleet modernization efforts that when we set our plan I guess I just have to say we’ve been very pleased with the benefits from our fleet modernizations so far and as we've continued to evaluate just the operating cost of operating Classic as it dwindles in size.
We just really took out our pencils evaluated it and we were able to come up with a plan that actually is going to enable us to improve our EBIT at very modest capital levels.
So I think you know our Southwest well.
We prefer a simplified fleet and even though the Classic fleet is 737 we'd much prefer to operate 700s and 800s.
It certainly simplifies a lot of the operations and also just improves the reliability in terms of just less downtime from a maintenance perspective.
So I think we’ll get also get a boost from the productivity of our fleet which certainly was part of the EBIT contribution that we’re expecting.
So all-in-all when we set down and evaluated it it became pretty compelling to go ahead and accelerate the Classics.
So hopefully that helps provide a little color as to what went into the decision making tranches.
Gary did you have anything? Tammy only thing I would say about -- it’s always a fair question; why now? Why not earlier? Why not later? And I think it's back to that convergence or confluence of things.
First of all we’re at a fleet number that is manageable to think about accelerating retirement in that way.
We have more out of service time with those airplanes for maintenance reasons than we do the rest of our fleet.
And Tammy made that point.
I just want to reiterate.
You'll get a lot more productivity out of a new airplane than what we are currently getting out of these Classics which means you don’t necessarily even have to have a tail-by-tail replacement although that is our plan.
But they'll be more efficient.
The other thing is that Boeing was available to us.
Boeing had delivery positions and we were able to strike a deal with them and in a way that worked for them and was win for them.
It was win for us.
So that was key.
With respect to our people think about the people who have to touch the airplane the pilots flight attendants mechanics specially.
It’s just far easier for our people to operate the NextGen than it is the Classic.
That's just a fact.
So this will simplify a lot of things for all three of those work groups and in particular our pilots.
So it’s a good deal.
If it works out it will be better for our customers and all the way around we're just delighted that we have this alternative available and we’re able pull all together to end of the year.
But it was an idea and a decision that was aggressively pursued in 2015 in fact in the later part of 2015 and fortunately it all team together.
And just again on the cost obviously.
As always it's just part of our DNA at Southwest.
We're very focused on costs and being the low costs producer and this is just yet another way to help us as we’re managing our cost here over the next several years.
And we’ll take our next question from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research.
You guys didn’t buy back stock in the quarter for first time in almost five years it looks like.
You'd still put money off in the repo and I understand you did the $500 million ARS.
But I would have thought you guys would come in and thoughts on after cutting the revenue guide.
Did that have anything to do -- not buying the stock have anything to do with posting 800 [ph] million dollars in hedge collateral or can you give us any kind of colors the thinking behind sort of putting it on hold for the quarter? No.
It didn’t have anything to do with the fuel hedge collateral and honestly wouldn't read anything into that at all.
We are more focused.
As we said this morning we are launching a 500 million accelerated share repurchase and we'll get that launched soon and then after that we will have 200 remaining on our 1.5 which was approved at our shareholder meeting last night.
So we've gone through that authorization pretty darn quick returning more than a 100% of our free cash flow in 2014 to our shareholders.
So I'm very proud of what we did there in 2014 with respect to the share repurchases.
So again actually that included our dividends.
So we are -- I don’t think there is anything more to it than that.
That's true.
That was already a record amount and as we've allowed here we were also beginning to have serious thoughts and conversations with the Boeing company and what -- how that cash flow might flow from that deal.
So I think what's material is that we have announced the $500 million today.
Yes.
Okay that's just fair.
Thank you.
And looks like -- when I look at schedule data I think you guys are trimming over the capacity at Love Field markets into LaGuardia and Regan and moving some of that out west little bit.
Does that have anything to do with the operational challenges that you might be encountering at Love Field because of the ongoing legal dispute and obviously the [indiscernible] or feel it but does that have anything to do with that or is that unrelated and there are other factors maybe just sort of like market demand based decisions.
Any color around what's flowing into that -- if the [indiscernible] is correct.
Yes.
You bet yes sir you bet.
No.
There is no -- I think our operations folks have done a marvelous job.
They are doing what is for us ten turns a day on a gate with well -- in less than full utilization of 18 gates.
So the operation actually is doing fine which simply means that we have --- when we finally get access to all the gates we will be able to put more flights in there.
But you'll note Hunter that we make changes all over the country and we don’t make dramatic changes in Dallas but you've got markets like Seattle that come into mind and Fort Myers Florida where we make very significant seasonal adjustments.
The other things that I mentioned to the media on this very same question this morning is that you know that we have a lot of new flying that's transpired since October 2014.
And I went through all that stuff and so has Tammy.
So with all of those new way routes I think we would readily admit to you that in some cases we may have too many flights in some places we may not have enough flights in places and so there is always some tuning that continues and that is all that's going on here at Love Field.
So my recollection -- we'll still at a 180 daily departures which probably cut through everything and answers your questions best that way.
But yes we've got some pluses and minuses in routes and there's nothing unusual about that.
And will take our next question from Savi Syth with Raymond James.
Just on the unit cost growth I was just kind of curious with the higher capacity growth in the first half I would have thought maybe -- a little surprised by the 2% [indiscernible] growth and then just wondering -- I know the one-point from the [indiscernible] depreciation.
Just wondering the timing -- the timing issues or what was leading to that very high increase in 1Q? Yes.
You are exactly right Savi.
The guidance for the full year is more 1%.
So you are exactly right.
It's just the timing of when our expenses are falling.
Got it.
And then just on the USCC question they came up before; just wondering Gary if you have any thoughts here.
It seems like the industry was going through a bit of the segmentation.
And I know Southwest wants to be kind of the leading low cost low fare airline.
But there is a product differential and then your kind of performance or be at the product or the service and merely the things that I was just kind of curious as to what your thought process is? Do you need to be the lowest fare recognizing that there is a difference in product and then maybe your thoughts on kind of the customer segmentation if there is a customer segmentation or if this is truly like a commodity business and you just have to be -- have the lowest fares? Well.
I love your question.
Well everybody's question but that -- I think that's one that's an interesting one to share.
And I'm happy to have an opportunity to address it.
We want to be the best service at the lowest price.
Period.
And describing price I would agree that we are going to have to do some comparisons between unbundled pricing versus our more bundled approach.
All-in I want Southwest Airlines to be the lowest price.
We'll win if we have the best service at the lowest price.
And that's been our tradition that's been our history that’s what the whole Company is based upon and that's what our growth plans are fundamentally based upon.
I think it is a slippery slope to accept that our costs and our fares can be higher based on service because as you well know there is a long list of failures in the airline industry who pursue that exact strategic plan.
And it's really a compound.
It really not facing up to the challenges of finding more and better ways to compete on cost and on price.
So thing I love about Southwest is it's been a Company who has been able to do both.
And the other thing that you find I think which is a slippery slope is companies can change.
And while service may not be a great attribute for some of our competitors today who will go on unnamed who is to say as they can change that in the future.
And so we need to continue to strive to be the best at both and we need -- while we may not have all the answers at any given point in time I think that that needs to continue to be our guiding line.
And we have time for one more question.
We'll take our last question from Michael Linenberg with Deutsche Bank.
Two quick ones here.
When we started the quarter the guide was for RASM to be up about 1% and as we moved through much of the quarter that number was out there.
And then about a month back you took guidance down.
And when I think about across the industry we did see some some of the carriers come in with weaker than expected at revenues.
Some of it was fuel surcharges some of it was FX some of it was the Paris attacks.
Those are to take some things that I didn’t think impacted you on one hand.
Then on the other we did hear that some airlines just ran a better operation because the winter weather wasn't that bad.
So I am curious with your exposure on the energy patch was that some of it that you saw some demand weakness in your core energy markets or is it just a better run operation? What drove that down so much? Mike I don't think Tammy would either.
I wouldn't blame our energy markets at all although as I mentioned earlier I think it is true that the energy markets are seeing some softness in RASM year-over-year but they're still really healthy.
I think the thing that’s -- and Tammy will better insights no doubt but the thing that stands out to me was Thanksgiving.
And we were pretty much tracking along with our forecast for the quarter until then.
And if you'll recall our discussion with our November traffic the pricing environment was not -- I used a word and it was quoted at the time it was unusual.
So the Christmas holiday period was more normal.
But regardless you kind of fast-forward now and Tammy maybe it might be more helpful to talk about current trends as opposed to what changed but Mike that was the main thing that I recall in the fourth quarter was the yields over the week of thanksgiving holiday travel based on unusual discounting in the industry were lower than what we would have predicted.
Anything you want to add there Tammy? Yes Gary I agree.
That really was what -- that was primarily what was different from what our forecast was going into the quarter.
And by the end of year with the holiday performance in the December that was actually within our expectations.
So as we're just trying to sort through all of that I would just -- our expectation going into the first quarter based on what we've seen so far and in January is demand seems strong.
We're continuing to see strong load factors but again we're also continuing to see those come in at weaker yields.
So at least I guess the way I would characterize at least from what we're seeing so far and our bookings is stabilized.
Mike the only other thing I would just point out is we had the same question here after -- so Thanksgiving occurred the Paris attacks.
And whether there was an effect on bookings with us with our competitor I don't know.
That's hard to tease out all of that.
But the other thing that's going here is if you looking the border GDP results for the fourth quarter and they weren’t very good.
So it's possible that the industry was seeing some softening in demand that led to more aggressive discounting.
And it's coupled with the industry also growing faster than GDP.
So it wouldn’t be shocking to find that there was a little bit of a rough patch there and just trying to get supply and demand cleared at the right price.
So -- but any of that -- beyond that we're continuing to manage our developing markets.
We're continuing to manage our markets in which there are competitive changes in terms of pluses and minuses in activity and overall the demand -- that all -- as we said -- demand it all adds up to I think a very solid outlook.
And I'll just reiterate one more time that our results are not adjusted for the difference in stage length and gauge.
If you do that we're turning in positive unit revenue performances in the fourth quarter for the full year 2015 and that would also continue to be our outlook in the first quarter.
It's a good point.
And then just on the capacity I apologize if you threw this out there Tammy but I think you gave the full year number five to six which is obviously unchanged but normally around this time of the year you'd get it to us by quarter end.
The way it seems it seems like it would be front end loaded obviously impacted by the leap day.
Do you have kind of rough -- what those rates are by quarter how we should model it for the year? Well she did say 8 to 9 for the first quarter.
Yeah 8.
It's 8.
9 for the… It is – I think it was 8.3 in the fourth quarter or so.
The high watermark is going to be this quarter and then it will start trending down from there but I will defer to you on the rest of the quarters Ms.
Romo.
Thank you Mr.
Kelly.
Yes so after this quarter second quarter is in the 4% to 5% range yes.
And that concludes the Analyst portion of today's call.
Thank you for joining.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin our media portion.
At this time I'd like to introduce Ms.
Linda Rutherford Vice President of Communications and Outreach.
Thank you and good afternoon.
If you go ahead and queue up Tom you can give them instructions and we'll get started up on the media Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you for standing by.
We'll take our first question from Jeffrey Dastin with Reuters.
Has Southwest recently exited any pure hedge contracts early for further participation in the fuel price decline? And if so at what cost? Yes I'll be happy to take that.
We have reduced our hedges here in 2016.
So the answer to that question would be yes.
We -- we're just looking at what we had last reported to you in terms of our hedge percentages against the main difference would be in the second half of 2016.
so we did reduce our hedges there substantially in light of the declining fuel market.
So we went from call it 60% to 70% in the second half of 2016 to probably closer to 30% to 35%.
And a brief follow up to make sure I understood your earlier comments correctly.
Is Southwest relying more heavily on call options this year than last? That would be going forward and that's correct.
And in fact our 2018 position only represents call options.
That's exactly right.
So in other words we were already long with a position for '16 and '17 as 2015 unfolded.
So Tammy and her team are continuing to work those positions off as best they can but then any additional hedges that they're doing they're doing with the call options to answer your question there.
So the call options are also for 2016 and 2017 in addition to 2018.
Actually anything that we've added just to be fair to your question well… Yes.
The majority of what we've added in 2015 has been call because all we have is 2018.
But yes I think that would be fair.
[Operator Instructions].
And Ms.
Rutherford there appears to be no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you so much Tom.
If anyone in our media community has any follow-up questions please reach out to us 214-792-4847 or shoot us a question over to www.swamedia.com.
Thanks and have a great afternoon.
That concludes today’s call.
Thank you for joining.