Good day and welcome to the Level 3 Communications Inc.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jessica.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Crowe Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Storey President and Chief Operating Officer; Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Buddy Miller Vice Chairman.
Before we get started as a reminder our press release supplementary information and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available on the Level 3 website at www.level3.com in the Investor Relations section on the Quarterly Financials page.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 1Q '11 earnings presentation.
And that says that information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As today's presentation will discuss a business combination transaction the following information is required by the SEC's rules and regulations in the context of that transaction.
This presentation shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or solicitation of any vote or approval.
In connection with seeking approval for the transaction from their respective stockholders Level 3 and Global Crossing will file a registration statement on Form S4 a joint proxy statement perspective and other relevant documents concerning the proposed transaction with the SEC.
Investors and security holders are urged to read the registration statement in the final joint proxy statement perspective and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available because they will contain important information about Level 3 Global Crossing and the proposed transaction.
Investors and security holders will be able to obtain a copy of the registration statement and joint proxy statement perspective as well as other filings containing information about Level 3 and Global Crossing free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or from Level 3 or Global Crossing's corporate website.
Level 3 Global Crossing and their respective directors executive officers and certain other members of management employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed transaction.
Information about Level 3's directors and executive officers is contained in the proxy statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting.
And information about Global Crossing's directors and executive officers is contained in the proxy statement for its 2010 annual meeting.
Additional information regarding participants in the proxy solicitation may be obtained by reading the final joint proxy statement perspective.
Finally please note that on today's call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available on the press release which is posted on our website at www.level3.com.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Valerie.
Consistent with our normal practice we'll start with Sunit who will discuss financial results for the quarter and some outlook for the year.
Jeff Storey will then discuss operational matters including segment results and pricing trends.
I'll provide a quick summary and some context and then we will open it up for questions.
Sunit? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
I'll start with some of the highlights for the quarter which can be found on Slide 3 of our presentation.
We had a good start to 2011 with strong Communications revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth.
It was also a busy quarter from a financing perspective as we move to refinance upcoming debt maturities.
Turning to the detailed results for the first quarter on Slide 4.
Core Network Services revenue grew 1.3% sequentially as reported and on a constant currency basis.
Core Network Services revenue performance was particularly strong this quarter given that we normally see seasonal declines in the first quarter from the typical drop in broadcast revenues.
This is the first time since 2007 that we have reported sequential growth in CNS revenues in the first quarter.
Turning to results for our customer channels.
Core Network Services revenue from wholesale was up 1% sequentially.
We saw a particularly strong revenue performance from our wireless content and cable customers during the quarter.
Large Enterprise and Federal Core Network Services revenue was flat primarily due to the effects of the expiration of the U.S.
Census contract we mentioned on the fourth quarter call.
We expect Large Enterprise and Federal to resume sequential growth going forward.
Mid-Market revenue continued to show a nice improvement with 3% sequential Core Network Services revenue growth.
This is the second quarter in a row of double digit annualized revenue growth.
European Core Network Services revenue was up slightly on a constant currency basis and grew 1% as reported.
Year-over-year growth was a bit over 10% for the European business.
From a services perspective our CDN revenue grew 35% sequentially compared to 27% sequential growth in the prior quarter.
CDN services represent over 2% of our CNS revenue.
CDN growth continues to accelerate as we take advantage of our unique combination of data center transport data broadcast and CDN services.
Also Voice Services revenue was up 2% sequentially this quarter.
We expect continued volatility in Wholesale Voice Services revenue since we manage these services for margin contribution versus revenue growth.
As I indicated on our fourth quarter call we are providing some detail on revenue churn.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the first quarter of 2011 our total CNS revenue churn was approximately 1.3% compared to 1.6% on average in 2010.
For our Mid-Markets group CNS revenue churn for the first quarter of 2011 was 1.6% compared to 2.2% on average in 2010.
We are pleased to see all the effort that we have put in to improving our customer experience yielding benefit in terms of reduced churn lower DSOs and lower bad debt expense.
Turning to Slide 5.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased slightly to 60.9% this quarter compared to 61.1% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
As mentioned last quarter we expected small increases in cost of revenue from the expiration of certain term and volume discounts from the fourth quarter of 2010.
In addition the growth in lower margin Wholesale Voice Services revenue also contributed to the slight decline.
We generally expect gross margins to improve over the course of the year.
SG&amp;A.
In the first quarter despite the typical first quarter increases in payroll taxes Communications SG&amp;A increased slightly as we continue to manage expenses tightly.
Turning to Slide 6.
Our adjusted EBITDA performance was better than expected.
Communications adjusted EBITDA increased 1% sequentially and 11% year-over-year and is on pace for double-digit year-over-year growth.
Communications adjusted EBITDA margin held steady at 24.6% in the first quarter of 2011 from the fourth quarter of 2010.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures were relatively flat in the first quarter of 2011 compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 as we had the benefit of investments made in 2010 when we leaned forward on capital expenditures given the delivery issues and upgrades across several layers of our network platforms.
Turning to Slide 7.
Free cash flow was negative $115 million for the first quarter of 2011 compared to positive $73 million for the fourth quarter of 2010 and negative $90 million for the first quarter of 2010.
As we indicated on the fourth quarter call and consistent with previous years the first quarter typically reflects greater cash outflows.
Cash interest expense in the first quarter was $46 million higher than the fourth quarter.
Working capital uses or needs are heavier in the first quarter due to normal -- due to annual bonus payments prepayments for maintenance contracts and property and payroll tax payments.
In addition to what we mentioned in the press release and as we discussed last quarter the biggest change in working capital in 2011 compared to 2010 will come from accounts receivable being a use of cash in 2011 compared to being a source of cash in 2010.
The 2010 our accounts receivable days sales outstanding or DSOs went from 32 days at the end of 2009 to 26 days at the end of 2010 due to improved customer billing experience and particularly strong collection efforts.
Last year this improvement was a source of about $60 million of cash to working capital.
We do not expect further improvement in DSO performance going forward.
Furthermore growing Communications revenue will result in accounts receivable growing and therefore a use of cash in 2011.
Turning to Slide 8.
As a result of the transactions we have completed year-to-date we now have no remaining maturities in 2011.
Given our pro forma cash balance of $616 million after the partial redemption of 2014 maturities we can comfortably pay down our 2012 maturities.
In 2013 the only remaining maturity is the $400 million of the 15% convertible senior notes.
With the progress we've made on liability management over the past years we are very comfortable with our debt maturities and believe we'll continue to improve our credit profile.
We continue to remain focused on reducing our leverage ratio or debt to adjusted EBITDA to our target of 3x to 5x.
Turning to our business outlook for the rest of 2011 on Slide 9.
As we indicated on our fourth quarter call we continue to expect to see sequential Core Network Services revenue growth for the rest of this year.
We expect sequential CNS revenue performance to strengthen and be better than the growth we saw in the first quarter.
With our high incremental margins we expect consolidated adjusted EBITDA to increase at a rate faster than CNS revenue growth leading to low double digit percentage growth in adjusted EBITDA year-over-year.
We expect capital expenditures to be roughly 12% of Communications revenue which is about what we saw in 2010.
We are pleased with the great start we've seen so far this year and we expect to see continued steady progress throughout the rest of 2011.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to take a moment to provide an overall summary of the quarter.
The momentum we saw at the end of last year continued in the first quarter marked by 1.3% sequential growth in Core Network Services revenue.
Our 2010 initiatives from our dedicated focus on the customer experience increasing the size of our sales force investing in our product capabilities to expanding our network footprint are paying off and resulting in continued revenue growth.
Improvement in churn and increases in usage are also contributing to the growth.
Combination of sales and usage growth improved sequentially.
Turning to the results by market group wholesale revenues were up 1% quarter-over-quarter.
We saw continued growth from our wireless customers who require increasing bandwidth to meet growing demands for wireless data.
Additionally we saw growth from our content customers both from existing customers and new logos.
Our key customers continue to express high confidence in Level 3's service experience and our ability to scale to meet the explosive demand for applications such as online video and website acceleration.
Content customers value our creation to consumption model and our full portfolio of services to meet their diverse needs.
As a recent example the growing relationship between the Major League Baseball Advanced Media Division and Level 3 is an example of the true partnership based on this creation to consumption model.
Level 3 provides MLB Advanced Media broadcast services as well as co-location High Speed IP and data services for their New York City facilities.
More recently Level 3 has also become a content delivery partner for MLB.TV a subscription-based video service that served more than 1 billion live videos streams entering 2011.
The scalability enhanced platform and high performance of Level 3's network were among the key factors in MLB Advanced Media's decision to select the Level 3 solutions.
We're excited to be supporting this important customer and its online strategy.
Revenues for Large Enterprise and Federal were flat quarter-over-quarter but up 6% year-over-year.
With our focus on network transformation and generally larger scale opportunities sales cycles in this area of the business continue to be longer than with other areas.
Core Network Services sales increased in the first quarter which is the key leading indicator for revenue growth.
Churn within this segment is within expected range and we remain focused on opportunities to increase our market share in the Large Enterprise and Federal markets.
Large sales within the Federal segment have extraordinarily long lead times.
While focused on supporting the major network initiatives we continue to augment a stream of smaller deals by adding additional salespeople aimed at circuit-specific or agency-specific opportunities.
This approach more firmly establishes Level 3 as a quality provider and better positions us to win the major initiatives.
Within our Mid-Market customer group we delivered another good quarter of growth with 3% sequential revenue growth.
As we have transitioned to our local market approach over the last two years we've also seen a steady improvement in churn.
Additionally based on the opportunities we see among Mid-Market customers we continue to grow our sales force to take advantage of those opportunities and expand our market share.
For our European group on a constant currency basis revenues were up slightly quarter-over-quarter and 10% year-over-year.
Customer demand remains strong across the entire European product portfolio and while growth may be lumpy in some quarters we continue to expect revenue growth in this area of the business.
Key opportunities to grow revenue are coming from the expansion of our metro and overall geographic footprint growing demand for CDN services and increased penetration with enterprise customers.
Data services revenue growth led our results from a product perspective.
Within the data services product family in addition to the CDN revenue growth that Sunit mentioned we also saw growth in our High Speed IP and business-grade Internet services as well as strong performance for VPN products.
Turning to pricing.
We see little change in the overall pricing environment.
As reported in past quarters we've seen relatively stable pricing for transport and infrastructure services with more aggressive pricing for High Speed IP and CDN.
Recently we have seen pricing pressure increase for wavelength services on certain high-volume routes.
We believe that one of the key factors in our revenue growth is our ongoing focus on the customer experience.
We continually strive for process improvement with our service delivery service management and billing processes leading to improved customer satisfaction and overall loyalty to Level 3.
Following each customer interaction for example on new install or a maintenance issue we conduct transactional surveys with our customers essentially asking the question how did we do? These transactional surveys have shown steady improvement over the last couple of years in both service delivery and service management.
In fact our first quarter 2011 service management survey showed the highest level of customer satisfaction since we began conducting these surveys.
We also conduct annual overall satisfaction surveys and I'm pleased to report that our satisfaction across the board improved again this year.
In our Mid-Market group where the customer experience had been an issue in the past customer satisfaction improved significantly over last year and we are performing well.
I'd also like to take a moment to update you on the Global Crossing acquisition.
First of all I'm very excited about this transaction.
I believe that together the two companies have a greater opportunity to serve wholesale enterprise and content customers on a global scale.
In addition to an expanded product portfolio we will have access to the high-performing Global Crossing sales team.
And when combined with the Level 3 sales force we'll have superior market coverage.
As a combined company we will continue to expand the sales force and execute on the opportunity to cross-sell the products and services each company offers today.
Integration planning is off to a great start.
We have appointed a dedicated integration planning team comprised of key leaders from both Level 3 and Global Crossing.
The combined team will deliver and after closing implement an integration plan focusing on growth and maintaining an excellent customer experience while still achieving the projected synergies.
From an approval process perspective our regulatory team is processing -- progressing on the approvals required for the closing of the transaction.
We have submitted applications with all of the 22 state public utility commissions that require them.
All other regulatory approvals are in the process of being filed.
Initial feedback from our customers has been very positive.
We believe the transaction creates a company with a unique capability to meet local national and global customer requirements in a wide range of markets that will benefit our customers worldwide.
In summary we are pleased with our results in the first quarter and are excited about the opportunities for revenue growth for the remainder of the year.
We remain very focused on executing on those opportunities.
Additionally we have a committed team focused on the integration planning process to ensure a smooth transition when the Global Crossing transaction closes.
With that I will turn the call back over to Jim.
Thanks Jeff.
As usual Jeff and Sunit have done a good job summarizing quarter general outlook for 2010.
For my part I'd like to emphasize 3 points.
Last quarter I said that 2010 may very well be remembered in our industry as the year of visual Internet.
By that statement I meant that for the American consumer online delivery of video content and including a long-form full screen movies and TV shows is quickly becoming a reality.
I think that this trend is growing in importance and will lead inevitably to the increasing importance of CDN technology across our network and for the whole of our industry.
We think that we are unique in our ability to combine live broadcast capabilities network facilities and CDN to meet our customers' needs.
And we think it's becoming increasingly obvious that we are taking share in this critical market.
Next as Sunit pointed out our very high operating leverage combined with accelerating revenue growth means that we expect EBITDA will trend towards double digit growth rates over the course of this year.
Finally I'd like to once again emphasize our excitement about the potential of our acquisition of Global Crossing.
As we proceed with our integration planning our confidence in our ability to create value for our investors continues to strengthen.
And we see more and more opportunity to better serve our customers.
With that operator would you explain the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
We've had a lot of mergers in the industry this year including the Global Crossing deal you referenced earlier.
But can we talk a little bit about the other impacts on your business AT&amp;T T-Mobile the fiber to the tower the wholesale business and also Century Qwest and Century Savvis? How should we be thinking about any potential churn down the road or any change maybe to your fiber to the tower strategy given consolidation of the wireless industry? Yes with respect to the first part of your question as is normally the case and we have quite a bit of experience in this area now initially we see more opportunity as companies that emerge groom circuits and require -- request additional capacity.
That's often followed by some slowdown in their needs.
I should emphasize that's fully baked into the kind of synergies we've expressed and the outlook that we expressed when we announced our merger.
So there's nothing here that is unexpected.
It's all baked into the kind of annual guidance we've provided on this call and last call and the kind of synergy estimates we have.
With respect to tower backhaul anytime you have growth rates exceeding 100% a year in unit terms looking out very far is a perilous thing.
But there's some points that we should make.
First it's a rare tower that simply has one provider.
That is most towers have last statistics I saw was a little over three wireless companies each.
The mergers say between T-Mobile and AT&amp;T isn't going to suddenly mean there are single service provider towers across the country.
And that means there is an opportunity and a large and ongoing opportunity for neutral third parties to provide service since it's difficult for anyone of the service providers to simply provide capability for themselves.
So I personally think when you look at the incredible growth rate in units and let's -- keeping in mind that we're just starting to see 4G deployment.
We're just starting to see video adapted to the small screen combined with the fact that there is no one carrier that is in a position to self provide outside of their service territory.
I think it remains a very large opportunity for a lot of the participants in our industry.
We'll move now to John Hodulik with UBS.
First just a clarification on the guidance.
You posted double-digit EBITDA growth this quarter.
And from your comments on revenue growth and acceleration and improved margin it sounds like that you expect that to accelerate from here so maybe some comments on that through the year.
And then from a revenue improvement standpoint it looks like you got a lot of the improvements so far through a real turn in the Wholesale business but maybe expect some of the improvements going further to be in the Large Enterprise side and maybe the Mid-Market.
Could you talk a little bit about your pipeline in the Large Enterprise and Federal space and just how you expect to see those other revenue lines kick in? Okay I'll take the first question.
I mean as we said we expect sequential performance to strengthen in the second quarter and that generally we expect better sequential performance in 2011 compared to 2010.
So putting both of that together and we've said in the past that incrementally our gross margins where we need dollar revenue about $0.80 in CNS revenue growth in CNS revenue and 60 -- and therefore 60% incremental EBITDA margins for CNS revenue growth.
So yes generally consistent with that we expect that both the revenues and EBITDA will keep -- will grow given that kind of operating leverage.
So given that we've started the first quarter with 11% year-over-year adjusted EBITDA growth I think we feel pretty good.
We should be able to deliver on the guidance we provided there.
And Jeff you want to answer the second question? Sure with respect to really Enterprise Large Enterprise and Mid-Market and whether we expect growth we do expect growth.
If you look at the Mid-Markets business we had 3% sequential growth.
I believe 3% in the previous quarter as well.
So we are on a double-digit revenue growth trajectory annualized trajectory there.
And our Large Enterprise business our sales I mentioned our sales in the first quarter exceeded our sales in the fourth quarter so we continue to see that as an increasing part of our business.
The one nuance that I would add is a lot of our sales historically have been monthly recurring revenue.
We're seeing a pretty significant increase in our usage growth which we don't report as sales but it comes when it comes.
And so we see growth in several different areas.
We'll take a question now from Goldman Sachs' Jason Armstrong.
Guys Scott Goldman on for Jason.
I guess a couple of questions just follow-up to the last one.
Talking about EBITDA growth on a double digit front and how that's taxed up relative to the CNS growth you're expecting.
Looks as though the incremental margins would suggest more than just kind of the 80-60 relationship you're just talking about Sunit.
So maybe you could talk a little bit more about what some of the initiatives you have in place to keep cost out of the business and help drive the incremental margins above maybe that 80% gross margin contribution? And then secondly just wondering maybe you could talk a little bit on the wholesale side within the CNS.
You guys saw a nice sequential pick up this quarter.
Can you talk a bit about how much of that is coming from the CDN side? You've been pretty vocal the last couple of quarters about some contract wins and some investments in the CDN business and sort of the outlook for CDN for the remainder of the year and if that's going to be the biggest driver of wholesale growth going forward? Let me ask a clarify question here.
Are you suggesting that from your analysis the kind of incremental margin Sunit talked about are less aggressive or more aggressive than your own? I wasn't clear about that.
No I think what I'm saying is if you look at sort of where your EBITDA growth expectations are for double digits for the year kind of where and obviously a little subjective on where we are for revenue growth for the year.
But if you look at the incremental margins that implied for 2011 would suggest you're probably going to be over 100% incremental margins in 2011 relative to 2010 on those numbers.
So that was where the question was coming from.
Yes Jason.
Maybe I should look at your I mean or Scott I should look at your analysis.
But I think that we continue to feel comfortable at 60% incremental EBITDA margin that does translate to the current double-digit growth that we've talked about.
I would say that obviously over the last year you are right.
We've done better than that principally because we have really kept expenses in check.
And I would say even here in the first quarter while we had increases in payroll taxes which is pretty common the actual increase in SG&amp;A expense was pretty limited because we continue to manage expenses tightly.
Having said that I think that as you heard from Jeff and what Jim was saying we are continuing to add sales people because we suddenly see the prospects for a fair bit of growth especially whether it's in the enterprise sector large and small the European business so we are adding sales people.
So I think we continue to feel comfortable with 60% incremental EBITDA margins and it does and it strengthened our CNS growth.
It does translate into double-digit EBITDA growth.
With respect to the question on the percentages CDN growth as part of our wholesale growth.
CDN is a very good product for us.
It's contributing to the results not only wholesale but also our European business and we expect it to continue to grow.
And it's one of the variety of products to wholesale so our wavelength business is very strong.
Our High Speed IP business is growing.
So it's a wide product portfolio that will contribute to our wholesale growth.
And I think we identified wireless as one of the major contributors.
And I'd reemphasize that while we fully expect CDN services to be a very important part of our ability to meet wireless carriers' needs over time that's still a future.
That's not something that's contributing today.
We'll move now to Ana Goshko with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Global Crossing also released results this morning.
And they were not directionally the same as your results unfortunately.
So there was a decline in revenue and a decline in EBITDA on a sequential basis.
And I'm assuming as a part of the diligence and the M&amp;A process and the fact that the merger was announced post quarter end that you would have a look at the results prior to today's announcement.
And now that they're out wanted to understand how you got comfortable about the direction of the results.
In general if you see anything concerning in their performance? Well I would emphasize that we remain two separate companies and that their outlook is their outlook.
We certainly have our outlook informed by all of the factors you described.
We're going to have a proxy here at some point and we'll be asking for shareholder votes.
So I think if you have questions about Global's outlook you really ought to talk to Global.
I think they were pretty straightforward in their call today.
Okay.
And then if I could just take a second one in just Sunit on the maturity profile you still have a lot of 2014 maturities to eventually deal with and your debt has responded very well since the announcement of the Global Crossing merger.
So I've been getting a lot of questions from people wondering if you might take the opportunity to address it resize some of the 2014s even before the merger close? Well I think a couple of points.
One we obviously have to make sure we're in good shape to close the transaction that's priority number one.
The 2014 maturities are still three years off.
But as we have in the past we've been at a run rate well north of $2 billion a year in terms of refinancing activity.
For the year so far we refinanced about $1.1 billion of maturities so I think we will continue to take a look at how everything is trading and make decisions that are appropriate.
But as I said the top priority always is to get the transaction closed.
We'll take a question now from Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Can you -- on the Global Crossing deal any regulatory push back U.S.
or otherwise that you're seeing? And then can you comment on overall Internet traffic volumes in the quarter? Any thoughts on the growth trajectory there? And what's your thoughts are and what your thinking is for what that will look like from a growth prospective year-over-year for the rest of the year? This is Jim.
We -- it's premature to comment about any regulatory reaction.
We're only a couple three weeks into it and we have filed in the 22 or so states that require approval.
We filed at the national level and those countries that require approval.
And we'll have to see how things progress from here.
We certainly don't anticipate any issues.
With respect to IP growth I'll give you my normal caveat.
It becomes increasingly meaningless in an industry where CDN means sources of IP traffic are distributed across the country and are not distributed homogeneously.
They're distributed more and more where the traffic ends up.
You combine that with substitution where very large companies major search companies major portals software distribution companies increasingly buy lower-level services and often distribute on an IP basis on their own.
I saw an assessment that for instance listed Google as having gone from effectively not measurable to one of the major providers of IP services in the country.
So it's I think very difficult to give a single metric that gives some sense of the complexion of the Internet.
But to answer your question it's like 17% 18% last quarter quarter-over-quarter fourth quarter to first quarter for IP alone.
It doesn't include CDN.
It doesn't include any substitution effect.
Inc.</strong> Would you anticipate that similar sequential growth rate going forward for the remainder of the year? Well I -- it's been lumpy and it will continue to be lumpy.
We've said for some time that we think 40% to 60% annualized growth is not an unreasonable guess.
Setting aside for the moment CDN NVIDIA which is growing at an incredible rate.
And if you were to -- if you give credence to Cisco's Visual Networking Index and we do I mean we think they're not correct but they're more correct than most any other analysis we've seen over 90% of the traffic on global Internets will be video by 2014.
So when I say excepting CDN I'm going to be excepting more than 90% of the bits.
But yes I think the balance at least for the foreseeable future might be in that 40% 60% range.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
It's very helpful.
We'll hear now from Jefferies' Romeo Reyes.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick questions.
As we look at kind of Mid-Markets which troughed around Q2 of '10 and then large and Federal government which troughed around I guess Q3 of '09 you've seen a very nice ramp over the last I guess call it 3 to 6 quarters on both of these segments.
Where is the growth coming from? I think obviously on large Federal governments probably because you extended that Federal government section.
But are you seeing growth primarily from existing customers buying more? Are you seeing growth from going out and getting new customers? One of the pieces you mentioned there was that your churn was down quite a bit at least this quarter.
Can you just comment on kind of whether the -- what have been the principal drivers behind the uptick in both of those segments new versus existing customers versus churn? Yes with respect to both of those segments Mid-Market Large Enterprise I'll start with again a caveat.
We're seeing something of a fundamental shift which goes under the somewhat overused term cloud-based services.
And that applies to individuals.
It applies to enterprises.
It's hard to pick up even a general piece of media and not see that term used.
It's real.
This isn't something that simply technical jargon.
It means that kind of applications and storage which you typically did locally is going to move to either internal centralized storage or to commercial.
And our bet is more and more commercial.
That is third parties who manage storage and applications or who offer services combining those two.
That's just starting.
And I believe that will have a pretty big effect over the next five years on growth in our industry for our Large Enterprise Mid-Market.
Right now I think it would be fair to say we don't see that effect.
It'd be fair to say we generally have a small share in a very large market.
We provided estimates of the total market size.
But for Mid-Market we have 1% to 3%.
So I think it would be fair to say we're taking share often from the incumbent.
But I think in the midterm I think the market starts to grow again.
I don't think it's fair to say it's growing all that rapidly now.
If Jeff or Sunit you have any comes jump in.
We still have a low share and we expect to continue to just take it.
Inc.</strong> Yes I was hoping to get a little bit of color.
I mean Global Crossing as mentioned that roughly 70% of growth is from existing customers.
And then at roughly I don't know 25% 30% is from new customer wins.
I was wondering if you had any kind of similar analogous metrics? Well in the Mid-Market it's highly skewed to new customers for Large Enterprise.
Sunit do you have a...
Yes I think generally we have been adding new logos especially in Large Enterprise some of it might come from some of our newer more innovative services CDN being a good example in the Large Enterprise side including leveraging our leadership position in the wavelength market.
With Mid-Market a lot of it's been driven by just adding to our sales force and other channels that we work with.
I would say from an overall perspective our customer counts have remained fairly stable now so we're not losing customers.
But as Jim pointed out a lot of the Mid-Market growth comes from new customers we've added.
I think the overall growth is coming from both existing and -- within the Enterprise segment that is is coming from both existing customers and new customers.
We'll try to give you a little more granularity on that going forward.
We'll hear now from Tim Horan with Oppenheimer.
On CDN you've had now some experience here and I think new customers have on the quality of your network and clearly the pricing.
Where are you maybe in the pipeline for new customers? And why at this point if what we're hearing that your quality is as good or better than your peers and your pricing is as good or better and you have such low market share why would you really be ramping up on the market share front in CDN? And then secondly maybe how important is applications distribution your capabilities there other than just video and maybe how important is having more of a global footprint and where you're at with that on the CDN front? Yes good questions.
Well we grew in the mid-20% range third quarter to fourth quarter and mid-30% range fourth quarter to first quarter.
So obviously we're accelerating and we expect that to continue.
I think your characterizations are accurate.
We spent a lot of time measuring quality.
And obviously we deal with some of the most sophisticated and demanding customers.
Jeff mentioned MLB Major League Baseball.
They're generally known in the sporting industry as among the most demanding of customers.
We certainly see it that way.
Netflix is certainly near the top of the list in terms of demanding customers.
Their customer satisfaction is as good as any consumer technology company and they jealously guard that.
So you're not going to get in the door unless you have the kind of quality that supports their needs.
We think we have a better cost structure than any of our competitors.
We simply control more of the supply chain.
Bandwidth is not a purchased item for Level 3 so our cost of goods is much more under our control.
Put that altogether we have a very compelling proposition.
And as I said in my remarks we're taking share we believe.
With respect to your other questions we are adding site acceleration application acceleration.
We have our brand names for them.
I encourage you to take a look at the sales collateral material on our website.
We add new capability all the time.
But I'll tell you without a doubt we are determined to be a market leader in content distribution and in all services related to content distribution that our customers want from us.
And we think our determination is apparent but over the last three years and the effort we've put in into it and now in the successes we're achieving.
We'll hear now from Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> I have two questions.
The first one have you done an analysis where you're providing fiber backhaul services to T-Mobile and AT&amp;T local markets? And if so is that a meaningful or at least a material amount of revenue? The reason obviously I'm asking is I think that that may be at risk of going away if in fact that T-Mobile and AT&amp;T transaction comes together.
And then my second question has to do with additional M&amp;A.
I think on your conference call talking about the Global Crossing transaction you talked about how you think you'll have your hands full and you're not necessarily interested in making other acquisitions.
But it seems like there might be other meaningfully sized assets that could be potentially coming to market in the near term.
And just curious if that would alter your view on that? I'll take the first question.
I mean I think as we have mentioned generally speaking we've seen growth from the wireless sector.
However we don't have much exposure at this point to fiber backhaul to towers.
We definitely see that as an area that is in general a growing area.
You've all seen the demand I mean just the wireless data growth numbers have been amazing.
We see that continuing.
So we think that in general there will be more and more need for fiber-type backhaul to towers and we certainly hope to participate in that.
But again most of our growth historically from the wireless sector has come more from the mobile switching center into the network as opposed to from a mobile switching center to the tower site.
So we don't have much exposure there on that question and I'll turn it over to Buddy on the M&amp;A question.
Yes you always would like more guidance than we can possibly give on questions like that.
We're going to be careful about the integration.
We had a problem four years or so ago.
We've learned from it.
We are very confident in our ability to get this one done and done well and rapidly but we're going to be a little careful about that.
But that said we're always out there scouring for M&amp;A opportunities have been for years we've made that very clear.
So we'll try to be intelligent about the balance that we strike.
We want to make -- we will make absolutely sure that we get this deal integrated well and we'll be intelligent as we look forward to what we might do next and when that might be.
Trying to make a prediction now wouldn't be useful.
LLC</strong> I think the other if I could just sneak another question in on the integration I think on the last call you guys mentioned that all the previous acquisitions that you've done have been integrated from a network standpoint at this point.
Have you also integrated the customer portal the billing platforms? Are all those on one platform at this point? And are they expected to be if they are not? Just a little bit of color on that would be helpful as well.
With respect to portals we have several different portals.
They're not based on historical companies that we've combined together.
Their based on customer needs and the products that those customers want to use.
For example our reseller portal is different than our content portal which is different than some of our enterprise portals.
So the portals we don't have a single integrated portal but that's not a reflection of integration.
With respect to the broader question the answer is yes we've integrated the networks and systems.
You're never completely done with that.
But the best measure of our success is the fact we believe the metric that suffered the most our ability to provide service in a timely interval has gone to the point where we now believe we're back to industry-leading intervals that is for services that we don't have to go to a third party read off net.
And in our case that's among the lowest percentage of our services in the industry and we have more on that than most any other company.
We are now waves for instance.
We're provisioning those in less than 30 days.
Some cases significantly less.
So yes I think the single -- all of the metrics that really tell you "Have you gotten that job done?" point to the fact yes we have.
One other point I'd want to make the difficulties we had with integration were difficulties associated with companies that owned local facilities local fiber networks.
What's required there is a difference of time versus long-haul.
With local fiber networks you roll trucks in order to install new services versus a long-haul network which is much more straightforward in integration.
We have not had any issues with -- and did not have any issues with Genuity with WilTel or with the long-haul portion of Broadwing which is much more akin to the job we have ahead of us with Global.
So there is a difference in time between them those we have trouble with and the time we're contemplating today.
We'll move to Michael Funk with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
First one just a comment I mean on the shape of bookings during the quarter how you exited 1Q versus entering the quarter.
Second related to that just provisioning times those new orders specifically maybe Mid-Market and Large Enterprise and Federal? And then also related to that in actions last year in Mid-Market maybe a comment or two on the sales force productivity? I think you had ramped that pretty heavily with your sales force during 2010.
So any kind of productivity metrics that you have around that as well? All right.
So with respect to bookings we have already mentioned that we saw increases in sales in Mid-Market and Large Enterprise.
Federal is a very lumpy type of customer that will either grow major initiatives.
We have focused our efforts in Federal on growing just the steady day-to-day business growing circuits and agency-specific opportunities.
So we continue to see some of that smaller growth.
We haven't seen the huge opportunities let out by Federal government recently.
Within provisioning times our provisioning times Jim mentioned our provisioning times if it's on net are industry-leading.
Our provisioning times when they're off net we still think that we're doing a better job of managing our off-net vendors than many others.
And so our provisioning times while we always want to improve they're acceptable within the market.
Our customer experience within each of those customer segments really indicates how we're doing.
And our customer experience with our Mid-Market customers I mentioned earlier in the prepared comments has continued to improve and we are focused on that.
And we also see that in the reduction of our churn.
Michael I'd like to add Sunit's discussion of his outlook or our outlook for the balance of the year is sort of a summary of where we see our business going and it expresses some confidence.
We wouldn't have made of those kinds of statements if both sales and signed but uninstalled order volumes didn't support it.
Remember that we're in May and Sunit correct me but given the number of billing cycles 12 in January 11 of February by the time you hit  May what are you almost 50% of the billing cycles? Yes.
A half so we have reasonable visibility and a high degree of confidence in what we say.
Yes and Michael a couple of points.
I mean I think generally if you look at sales in terms of MRR and user sales sales have generally held up nicely in the first quarter.
We see that improving across the course of the year.
Productivity is holding pretty steady and shooting through a little course of the year generally running on average about 8 000 per month per sales person across the whole system.
So in the metrics as Jim pointed generally it looked good which is the reason why we provided the outlook we have which calls for a strengthening CNS sequential revenue growth which is really the sum of everything we've talked about.
And maybe just one point of clarification on the outlook then as well I mean I can understand and do the math on the low double digit growth and adjusted consolidated EBITDA for the full year.
But then you also say you have consolidated adjusted EBITDA to increase this year in line with CNS revenue growth.
Would that be on an absolute basis saying that CNS revenue grew say around $28 million year-over-year in 1Q? Is that the right way to think about it on an absolute basis or how do you square those two with a percentage of growth year-over-year in adjusted EBITDA versus the growth relative to CNS? Yes sure.
I mean keep in mind out of the revenues we report $700 million of the $900 million plus in revenue is CNS revenue growth.
The Wholesale Voice is not really a driver for the business.
The other revenues which are now either less than 2% of the revenue pie declined at about 40% year-over-year.
I think that trend is holding up.
So probably the best way to sum it up is to think about it in the following way: Our EBITDA margins are running about 25%; incremental EBITDA margins are about 60%.
If you work that math to everything I think we've talked about in the past is that for every 1% increase in CNS revenues that's year-over-year the EBITDA growth is 2x that.
And I think the other way to look at it as we start off the year in the first quarter with EBITDA being -- Communications adjusted EBITDA being up 11% year-over-year.
So you put all of that together and that's how it flows through.
We'll now take a question from D.A.
Davidson's Donna Jaegers.
On the CDN business can you talk a little bit more on how you won the Major League Baseball? Congratulations by the way on that win.
And then talk a little about your pricing in CDN versus where it was say two years ago? Because two years ago you guys were very aggressive in the space.
You're obviously picking up share but are you as aggressive picking up share just on a pricing basis? With respect to Major League Baseball they're a very demanding customer.
You don't get in the door unless the level of quality is sufficient to meet their standards.
After that they're like any sophisticated buyer.
It's going to be value of which price is one component.
We've I've spent some amount of time with our larger CDN customers.
And it's always interesting to hear a discussion of the factors they value.
And while price is certainly there when you're growing at the pace some of these companies are growing at growth rates measured in the hundreds of percent in unit terms being able to assure a customer that you'll be there six months or nine months or a year from now is a big issue.
So scalability price responsiveness are all keys.
If you are offering online full screen movies long form full screen movies or TV shows the number of buffers per hour and anyone on the call happens to watch online video you know how annoying it is when things freeze and you see the little set of bars or dots at the bottom rebuffer.
The folks who offer that kind of service maniacally measure that rebuffer rate.
So putting all of those together is essential.
Price obviously is meaningful but it isn't the only factor that goes in.
With respect to our own pricing we're competitive.
We think we're competitive with any of those companies that can offer the level of value and service that we offer.
And we think our combination of services and facilities create something that is very hard to compete with in terms of reliability and scalability.
So we like our competitive position.
Great.
And just a quick follow-up on the dynamic site acceleration and app acceleration products that you guys are offering do you view -- Akamai has sued Cotendo that's teamed up with AT&amp;T.
Do you see any patent barriers to your offerings? And what's the size of your sales force just focused on CDN? With respect to intellectual property Buddy what was it four years ago give or take? We wrote some for us fairly sizable checks to get foundational patents in CDN.
We purchased the intellectual property portfolio and some assets from Savvis.
We cut a deal with IBM to cross license roughly 8 000 or 10 000 patents.
And I think we feel -- you never know for certain and anyone can sue anyone at any time.
But I would say looking across the industry we feel pretty good about our intellectual property position.
Since that time we have regularly filed patents updated patents.
I think we'd be one of the few newer entrants into the industry that has a growing patent portfolio and a whole program to make sure that we're well protected.
So I don't think -- I think we feel good about the position we're in.
You had a second part to that question? Yes just the size of the sales force devoted to CDN products.
Well the whole sales force.
We have as you would expect sales engineering and specialists.
But our goal is to offer CDN across our entire portfolio of customers.
And if you look at some of the press releases we've had success with government.
We've had success with Large Enterprise.
We've had success with service provider with portals with search with online content distributors.
The reason we have that kind of success is over the last I'd say a year 1.5 years we productized CDN.
Again I would encourage you to take a look at our website.
You can see some of the effects of that productization of CDN and all of the collateral we have.
So we've enabled our sales force broadly to sell CDN.
And obviously if there's a technical issue we need to deal with we bring in the right expertise.
But it's part of our product portfolio.
And our last question today will come from David Sharret with Barclays.
If I can ask Sunit just one balance sheet question.
Your cash position at $660 million seems very healthy and obviously is going to be higher when Global Crossing closes.
Just want to get your sense on kind of what is the right cash position for the company if that seems sort of elevated and you do some of that as part of your upcoming refinancings or you want to hold on to more cash as you go through the integration? And then specifically I think you may have touched on this during the call but did you say you intend to repay the 3.5%'s next year with cash to reduce hold co leverage as opposed to refinancing those notes with additional debt at that level? I mean historically we've always been delivering and maintain healthy levels of cash balances obviously with a combination leverage thus go down right at the outset and improves quite a bit over time with synergies.
But I think that and then the point on the debt that is due next year the 3.5% I think what we say is always do we have plenty of cash to handle the 3.5%? I don't know that we have any position at this point in time in terms of when or how we take care of that maturity certainly 3.5% is an attractive interest rate from an expense perspective.
But and also I think once we close the transaction we will have good sizes as we talked about when we announced the transaction in terms of integration costs and transaction costs.
So I think to sum it up I will just say that we continue to be firm believers in maintaining decent cash balances and I think we've always done that.
And I don't think that will change too much over the next year or two given everything else we've say.
And our long-term obviously with big reductions in leverage we can go back and rethink that.
Okay thank you.
Operator that ends the call.
And this concludes today's Level 3 Communications Inc.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you all for attending and have a good day.
Good day and welcome to the Level 3 Communications Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jessica.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Crowe Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Storey President and Chief Operating Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started as a reminder our press release supplementary information and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available on the Level 3 website at www.level3.com in the Investor Relations section on the Quarterly Financials page.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 2Q '11 earnings presentation and that says that information on this call and in the presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As today's presentation will discuss the business combination transaction the following information is required by the SEC's rules and regulations in the context of the business combination transaction.
This presentation shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or solicitation of any vote or approval.
In connection with seeking approval for the transaction from their respective stockholders Level 3 and Global Crossing filed registration statements on Form S-4 a joint proxy statement prospectus and other relevant documents concerning the proposed transaction with the SEC.
Investors and security holders are urged to read the registration statement and the final joint proxy statement prospectus and any other relevant documents filed with the SEC.
Investors and security holders will be able to obtain a copy of the registration statement and joint proxy statement prospectus as well as other filings containing information about Level 3 and Global Crossing free of charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or from Level 3 or Global Crossing's corporate websites.
Level 3 Global Crossing and their respective directors executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in favor of the proposed transaction.
Information about Level 3's directors and executive officers is contained in the proxy statement for its 2011 annual meeting and information about Global Crossing's directors and executive officers is contained in the proxy statement for its annual meeting.
Additional information regarding participants in the proxy solicitation may be obtained by reading the joint proxy statement prospectus.
Finally please note that on today's call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available in the press release which is posted on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Jim.
Jim? Thanks Valerie.
As is our normal practice we'll start with a financial summary from our Chief Financial Officer Sunit Patel.
He'll also provide some thoughts about the balance of the year.
Jeff Storey will then pick up the conversation.
He'll discuss operational matters including segment results and provide an update on Global Crossing integration planning and status.
I'll provide some contextual remarks and then we'll open it up to questions.
Sunit? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin with some of the highlights for the quarter which can be found on Slide 3 of our presentation.
We saw a further improvement this quarter in Core Network Services revenue growth with 2% sequential revenue growth.
Communications adjusted EBITDA increased to $234 million excluding $8 million in costs associated with the Global Crossing transaction up from $225 million last quarter.
Additionally we generated positive free cash flow during the quarter.
Finally we raised $1.2 billion in unsecured notes for the Global Crossing acquisition and this morning we launched a $650 million senior secured term loan transaction to complete the financings necessary for the Global Crossing transaction.
Revenue.
Turning to the detailed results for the second quarter on Slide 4 CNS revenues grew 2% sequentially as reported and 1.7% on a constant currency basis.
Notably our sales and installs were also up sequentially from the prior quarter.
Moving to our customer channels Core Network Services revenue from wholesale was up 2% sequentially.
We saw particularly strong revenue performance from our wireless and content customers during the quarter.
Large Enterprise and Federal posted 3% sequential growth Mid-Market Core Network Services revenue increased by 2% sequentially.
European Core Network Services revenue declined by 1% sequentially on a constant currency basis and increased 1% as reported.
Year-over-year Core Network Services revenue growth for Europe was 6% on a constant currency basis and 16% on an as reported basis.
From a services perspective CDN revenue grew 13% sequentially.
Year-over-year CDN revenue increased 115% and it now represents over 2% of our CNS revenue.
Wholesale Voice Services revenue declined to $151 million this quarter from $164 million in the second quarter.
Wholesale Voice Services revenues were down this quarter due to declines in usage.
We expect continued volatility in Wholesale Voice Services since we manage these services for margin contribution versus revenue growth.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the second quarter of 2011 our total CNS revenue churn was approximately 1.5% compared to 1.3% in the first quarter of 2011.
The sequential increase was primarily from one wireless customer disconnect during the quarter and even with this disconnect revenue from our wireless segment grew 4% quarter-over-quarter.
For our Mid-Markets group CNS revenue churn for the second quarter was 2% compared to 1.6% in the prior quarter.
Even though churn picked up a bit in the second quarter we still expect overall and Mid-Market churn in 2011 to be lower than 2010.
Turning to Slide 5 gross margin as a percent of revenue improved to 62% compared to 60.9% in the first quarter of 2011.
The growth in high margin CNS revenue and the decline in lower margin Wholesale Voice Services revenue contributed to the improvement in overall gross margin percentage.
The gross margin contribution from growth in high margin CNS revenue more than offset the decline in lower margin Wholesale Voice Services revenue.
Gross margin dollars increased from $557 million in the first quarter to $566 million in the second quarter.
SG&amp;A.
Communications SG&amp;A expense excluding costs associated with the Global Crossing transaction were flat compared to the prior quarter.
We continue to add sales people and manage expenses tightly.
We incurred approximately $8 million in expenses associated with the Global Crossing transaction primarily for upfront legal and professional services fees incurred as part of signing the transaction.
We will continue to provide updates on transaction and integration costs as they are incurred.
Turning to Slide 6.
Communications adjusted EBITDA was $226 million for the second quarter of 2011 or $234 million excluding the $8 million of expenses associated with the Global Crossing transaction.
Communications adjusted EBITDA was $225 million for the first quarter of 2011 and $209 million for the second quarter of 2010.
Excluding expenses associated with the Global Crossing transaction Communications adjusted EBITDA increased 4% sequentially and 12% year-over-year and remains on pace for double-digit year-over-year growth.
Communications adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 24.8% in the second quarter of 2011 or 25.6% excluding Global Crossing related expenses up from 24.6% in the first quarter of 2011.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures increased to $125 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared to $115 million in the first quarter of 2011 as we continue to invest CapEx for revenue growth opportunities.
Turning to Slide 7 given strong execution around working capital free cash flow is a positive $6 million for the second quarter of 2011 compared to a negative $115 million for the first quarter of 2011 and negative $19 million for the second quarter of 2010.
As of June 30 2011 we had $584 million of unrestricted cash on the balance sheet.
On Slide 8 in 2 separate transactions we've raised $1.2 billion of unsecured senior notes to fund the Global Crossing transaction.
In July certain orders converted approximately $128 million of our 15% convertible senior notes due 2013 into equity.
Approximately $272 million of the original $400 million of these notes remain outstanding.
We expect to recognize $29 million of other expenses in the third quarter associated with this transaction.
The Global Crossing related financings will result in an estimated incremental GAAP interest expense of $26 million in the third quarter and resulted in incremental GAAP interest expense of $6 million in the second quarter.
With the progress we've made on liability management over the past few years we are very comfortable with our debt maturities and believe we'll continue to improve our credit profile.
We remain focused on reducing our leverage ratio or debt-to-adjusted EBITDA to our target of 3x to 5x.
Turning to our business outlook for the rest of 2011 on Slide 9 we continue to expect CNS revenue growth for the rest of 2011 and low double-digit consolidated EBITDA growth in 2011 versus 2010.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately 12% of Communications revenue for the full year 2011.
Free cash flow is expected to be roughly break-even for the last 3 quarters of 2011 in aggregate.
This outlook excludes any effect from the pending Global Crossing acquisition.
We feel very good about the progress we've made this year towards our financial objectives and look forward to a good second half of 2011.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to start out with a summary of the quarter.
We saw nice growth in Core Network Services revenue sequential growth in Core Network Services sales and we continue to make progress as we prepare for the Global Crossing acquisition.
Turning to the results by market group Wholesale revenues were up 2% quarter-over-quarter.
We saw continued growth from our wireless customers even with the disconnect Sunit mentioned which was a planned disconnect resulting from a network upgrade we completed with the customer last year.
We also saw growth from our Content customers both from existing customers and new logos.
Revenue for Large Enterprise and Federal were up 3% quarter-over-quarter and Core Network Services sales increased nicely during the quarter.
In fact the Federal group recorded its best sales month ever in June.
We're pleased with the progress we've made with the federal government and the various research and education networks we support.
Within our Mid-Market group revenues grew 2% compared to the prior quarter.
Through our local sales force we continue to look for opportunities to more effectively utilize and grow our deep metro networks.
Our Mid-Market operating model utilizing a direct and local sales force combined with our extensive metro and long haul networks and a robust product portfolio make us an excellent choice for Enterprise customers.
As a recent example Denbury Resources Inc.
the largest oil and natural gas provider in both Mississippi and Montana selected Level 3 as their primary provider of IP VPN service connecting their 60-plus company field offices.
Level 3 also provides SIP Trunking local voice private lines and high-speed IP in some of their locations.
Denbury Resources chose Level 3 based on our ability to deliver service in their off and remote field offices and because of the local sales support they received both helping them remain on the leading edge of technology within their industry.
The results with our Large Enterprise and Mid-Market customer groups validate our efforts and our approach in serving these important customer segments.
For our European group on a constant currency basis revenue declined by 1% quarter-over-quarter but was up 6% year-over-year.
In addition to our core carrier business we continue to see growth opportunities in the broadcasting finance and gaming sectors somewhat offset by pricing pressure in high-speed IP.
We saw strong growth in CNS sales for Europe in the second quarter compared to the first.
We also continued to expand our network adding more locations on net to take advantage of growth opportunities.
This quarter we added transport PoPs in Dresden and Leipzig and new IP PoPs in Slovakia and Croatia.
From a product perspective we saw revenue growth across our 4 broad product families: infrastructure transport data services and local and Enterprise Voice.
Data services continues to show strong growth not only from CDN revenue but also from business-grade IP services ethernet-based services and managed.
Turning to pricing we see little change across our product portfolio from last quarter.
As we've mentioned previously we see relatively stable pricing for transport and infrastructure services particularly for metro services with more aggressive pricing for point-to-point wavelengths and usage-based services such as high-speed IP and CDN.
We continue to make the customer experience a priority.
We were recognized last month with 5 awards from ATLANTIC-ACM in their North American Business Services Study which recognized Level 3's leadership in delivering voice and data services to Enterprise customers.
We won best-in-class awards in the ILEC/IXC category for best brand network performance voice quality voice value and data value.
We have a number of initiatives currently underway to continue to improve the experience we provide our customers and further separate us from the competition.
I'd like to give you a brief update on the Global Crossing acquisition.
When we announced the Global Crossing transaction in April we stated that we expected to obtain regulatory approvals and close the acquisition before the end of the year.
Although we have a number of regulatory approvals left to obtain we still have that same expectation.
More specifically I'm pleased to tell you that as of today we received regulatory approvals from 21 of the 23 state public utility commissions that must approve the transaction and related financing.
We've also received approvals in some but not all of the foreign jurisdictions where approval is required.
At the U.S.
federal level we are working with the Department of Justice to respond to its request for additional information in the Hart-Scott-Rodino proceeding as we announced 2 weeks ago.
This week brings a close to the comments cycle with the FCC for the approvals required in that jurisdiction.
We'll be working with the commission staff to prepare appropriate approval orders.
In short our regulatory approval process is proceeding well with some matters being closed out more quickly than we predicted and others taking a bit longer.
We'll make further announcements on this as warranted.
Our integration planning efforts are progressing well and we remain committed to minimizing any disruption to our customer during the filing process or the implementation after the acquisition closes.
It is imperative that our customers continue to have a positive consistent experience with us throughout this transition while also taking advantage of what will be our combined global assets and service portfolio.
For example our operations teams are evaluating the processes that need to be put in place on the day of closing to enable ordering and provisioning and to make that process as seamless as possible for the customer.
Post-closing we'll maintain our focus on the customer and move toward the long-term processes outlined by the teams.
We've already begun developing our 2012 operating plan which will align with the combined companies' long-term global strategy.
In summary we're pleased with the progress we've made in growing Core Network Services revenue and sales.
We remain focused on the opportunities in front of us from continually improving the customer experience to executing on sales opportunities in order to achieve continued revenue growth.
Additionally through our ongoing planning efforts we're focused on making the Global Crossing acquisition a success.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Jim.
Thanks Jeff.
As usual Sunit and Jeff have done a good job summarizing the quarter and the outlook for the balance of the year.
For my part I'd like to emphasize 3 points.
First our improving revenue growth rate together with the very high operating margins we've enjoyed puts us squarely on track for the double-digit adjusted EBITDA growth we projected at the beginning of the year.
We believe this kind of performance is industry-leading for larger wireline communications companies.
And importantly given the overall low market share we have in our various addressable markets we think we can continue to accelerate this growth rate over time.
Next as Jeff said we're making good progress in the Global Crossing integration planning and I'd like to add we continue to see opportunities to improve the economics of what we think is already a great transaction.
As Jeff said we still expect to close by the end of the year.
And finally on a related point I'd like to congratulate John Legere the CEO of Global Crossing and his entire team for a very solid quarter with impressive growth particularly in Latin America.
Global Crossing and Level 3's performance jointly provides evidence to the power of the combined companies' very broad and deep portfolio of optical IP services their broad geographic diversity including fast-growing emerging markets and particularly our joint dedication to customer service.
All 3 together create the opportunity to provide superior value for our investors.
Operator that ends our prepared remarks if you'd please discuss the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ana Goshko with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
On the revenue outlook for the rest of the year so you guided to sequential growth but I noticed that the language is a little bit different than it was in the prior release and you don't talk about sort of an increased pace of sequential growth.
So wondering what kind of trends you expect to see for the next 2 quarters.
And generally other than when we're in a pretty serious economic decline on a macro basis the fourth quarter does tend to be the strongest quarter of the year.
I'm wondering if that's a seasonal impact you expect to see this year.
Yes let me take that Ana.
I think on the revenues front last year we established a firm 1%-type growth base.
I think if you look at the average for the first half of the year 1.3% and 1.7% it puts us in a 1.5% pace.
I think that -- as we've indicated in the past we are shooting for 2% sequential growth -- and I think that the momentum you see in the second quarter should continue in the second half of the year.
We feel pretty good about the business as Jeff and I indicated.
Our sales were up in the second quarter.
Sales funnels up also.
So we feel good about the second half of the year and our objective is to keep increasing the pace of -- and keep working towards our 2% objective.
The question on the fourth quarter yes we do see -- we have historically seen seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
Some of that's driven by our Vyvx business given all the football season in the fourth quarter.
So this year should be no different given recent news so I think that will also be there.
Okay and then a second question is on the revenue churn being up.
I just wanted to ask Jeff to clarify.
So it sounds like that wasn't really like a lost customer.
It was really sort of an upgrade of service so there really wasn't a net revenue loss.
It was just part of the methodology of how you calculate churn.
Is that accurate? With respect to the one wireless customer that Sunit and I both mentioned they went through a major upgrade of their network last year and as a result some of those services that they were using in the prior network were turned down and that's the churn that we're talking about.
But you're right it was replaced with other revenue from last year.
Okay so the net revenue from that customer has not declined as a result of this upgrade? No.
If you take at Slide 4 in Sunit's deck there's a footnote that goes to your point Ana.
That is the way we measure churn includes disconnects associated with upgrades of service.
So that is maybe different from how certain other companies report their churn.
We'll take a question now from Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Jeff I wonder if you could just dive a little deeper into the demand drivers sort of break out what's really coming from increased volumes versus any change in the competitive environment or the pricing intensity.
I think you did talk a little bit about some pricing pressure in CDN and high-speed IP but overall are you seeing pricing fairly consistent with prior trends? Any big changes there? And on Europe the weakness there is that something that's really one quarter and we'll start to see a return to sequential growth later in the year? Or are we seeing some of the macro pressures that we're reading about starting to impact demand? Sure.
The second question first with Europe I do believe it's a one-quarter thing and that we had a good sales in the second quarter have a strong sales funnel have an excellent team and an excellent network excellent products.
And so I do think that's just a one-quarter issue.
As far as demand drivers on the wholesale side demand drivers are data usage and the same things that we've talked about over the past few years.
That the increasing amount of bandwidth required by our wholesale providers continues to grow and as they serve the needs of their customers so that will continue.
On the Enterprise side we're taking share.
We have great products and a great footprint and are beginning to execute on our sales plan and our customer experience plan.
As a result we're winning more and more business.
I'll add to Jeff's remarks.
He underlined that we've seen very little difference in the pricing environment.
When he said that everything but CDN and IP continued as in the past we mean as we've said before plus or minus 10%.
CDN and IP have higher declines.
They have for quite some time but they're offset by much higher unit increases.
So all in all I think we find the pricing environment fine.
I mean obviously we like many others would like to raise prices but we're happy with the pricing environment.
Now just on the lines Simon and I think the European business continues to be pretty healthy.
So this is a one-quarter phenomenon.
We expect them to keep growing quite nicely.
And as everything that Jeff mentioned points to continued sustained growth.
We'll hear now from David Dixon with FBR Capital Markets.
I wonder if you could first of all help me with the extent to which there's been any products product mix shifts within the data segment across the board there? Yes it's Jim.
We continue to see CDN grow relative to other data products.
IP VPNs and ethernet-based services are substituting for other types of protocols.
I think that would be consistent with many other companies.
In general we have said and repeat video is in its various forms the visual Internet if you would is an enormous driver.
It's clear that's true in landline networks and we are beginning to see more and more demand from the wireless side still small in absolute terms but growing very rapidly.
And announcements like our recent HBO GO win where HBO's announced their intent to put most if not all of their library online and it's formatted in part for consumption on mobile devices.
Those kinds of trends we don't see changing.
So video expressed in all of its forms on all of the platforms that we all have on our hip on our laptops and on our TVs is a huge driver Enterprise it's IP VPNs.
And Jim what about these solutions that's up between MPLS and VPN IP sectors that sell VPN are you seeing any shifts there? I wonder if you could comment on the relative profitability of both of those solutions? I'll let Sunit talk about the profitability.
With respect to the trends I think we see ethernet as a major player in the future both as a transport product and as an access product.
The reason is math -- the economics I should say the industry.
The last I looked this metric isn't fresh but it's directionally correct.
There were millions of the ethernet chipsets sold -- they're obviously in most every device -- versus a few hundred thousand SONET chipsets sold in other competing technology.
So like much of our business consumers and their demands and the underlying technologies are driving changes in Enterprise.
That's a shift from 20 years ago.
So we think ethernet's a big deal and ethernet VPNs are increasingly important.
Sunit you want to talk about relative pricing or margin -- across the products? Yes I think margins generally for CNS products are pretty high as you've said historically and we are seeing today better than the incremental 80% margins on new revenue gross margins and about $0.20 to the SG&amp;A line.
But the point that Jim mentioned on ethernet is important.
It's been a big big driver for CapEx remaining very cost-effective because the cost on the CapEx per bit for ethernet-based technologies is substantially below for example what we had seen in big fab drivers and then that is continuing to drive a lot of -- stimulates a lot of demand growth like video for example.
I'd add one last comment that about every couple of quarters we point out.
We view margin as the output of our selection of services our selection of the geography into which we sell those services and the customers to whom we sell.
That is we don't view margin as something like the weather that just happens.
We work hard at selling the right services in the right locations largely on our own networks to the right set of customers.
And that's the reason we have 80% incremental gross margins and 60% 65% incremental EBITDA margins.
That's a managed number.
So it shouldn't surprise anyone that when we add new services that's the output.
That's what we manage to.
And then maybe just lastly if I could.
In terms of your peering arrangements I'm curious to know if you could provide any details of the contractual terms if any there? And whether the traffic ratio trends are expected to change post the Global Crossing's merger? Well you've asked a question that could consume a good portion of the amount of time we have left.
I'll summarize it this way.
The economics and the contractual arrangements associated with interconnection among IP networks is influx.
The old arrangements were struck at a time when IP and IP networks were dominated by quasi-governmental entities.
And we didn't have the kind of growth rates nor the importance that current IP optical networks have.
There is a lengthy discussion of these issues and the various filings made and the -- what's now referred to as the Comcast-Level 3 dispute.
There will be more.
We simply say equity and fairness ought to be the goal.
If there is a market on both sides of the interconnection let the market set it.
You want to give it away for free and support your business by putting ads on the side of your trucks? Fine.
If there's no market that is if one side or the other has a dominant position then the last person that gets to decide what the terms of the interconnection are is the individual with a dominant or monopoly position.
In that case there's a role for government.
We as a generality prefer market-based solutions bend over backwards to look for market-based solutions.
But let's face it in parts of our industry certain parts -- certain of the players have dominant positions as a result of previous government-granted exclusive franchises.
If you want more on the topic I'd suggest getting in touch with our IR group who can point you to probably more information than you may wish to read.
We'll move now to Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> To what extent is the CDN business driving additional network sales? Can you give us an idea of what's sort of the total impact of getting larger in that space? And then have you -- I apologize if you covered this earlier but have you seen much of a competitive response going into the merger? I know you've said that you do expect to lose some customers that maybe were using Level 3 or Global Crossing as a primary or redundant route that may go to another carrier.
Have you seen much of an impact from that at this point? I'm going to let Jeff handle that second question.
With regard to the first CDN has a couple of benefits.
Obviously if you believe as we do very strongly and we have lots and lots of company and lots and lots of data to support our belief that the future is all about a visual Internet then CDN changes from a unique separate distinct technology to part of your ability to provide a Network Services.
We've said before we'll repeat if you're not in the CDN business you're going to have a hard time being in  the communications business in the future.
And we are taking share because we think the combination of a network and the CDN technology that is having both a bandwidth and the CDN technology puts you in a strong competitive position.
That has led to pretty rapid growth in CDN sales as Sunit mentioned.
Less easy to point to but nonetheless real is the value of CDN as an introductory service to a broad and increasing number of customers.
Large Enterprise is a good example.
We had a strong quarter in Large Enterprise and at least part of it because we uniquely I think are able to serve a broad range of services including CDN that becomes increasingly important to folks across Enterprise.
More and more -- all you have to do is log on to about any Large Enterprise's website and look at the video content in their web pages.
Look at the importance of a rapid web page load.
I looked at a statistic where about beginning of this decade an 11% page -- or an 11 second page load was acceptable.
Today if you're not under 2 you lose customers.
That's CDN.
Being able to offer that kind of service along with Transport Services Voice Services IP or ethernet VPNs is a powerful combination.
And we're seeing real benefits across the whole company.
Jeff you want to take that second? Sure with respect to the -- have we seen any loss of customers as a result of the announcement of the transaction? Customer-specific stuff is one of the things we do not discuss with Global Crossing until after the close so I'm going to answer the question but I'm only answering for Level 3 side.
I spend a lot of time with our customers and talk to a lot of them and across the board we've seen support.
We think our customers think this is a good transaction giving us the scope and scale and breadth of services that they desire from their providers.
And so across the board we see support.
We do expect that there'll be some cases where a customer may need diversity but there are relatively few places where we believe Level 3 and Global Crossing are the only providers for those customers.
And so we don't -- while we think there could be some of that we think the upside is far greater.
That what we bring to our customers from the ability to deliver from a local metro network in the U.S.
to deep within Latin America creates far greater opportunities than the downside.
We'll move now to Cowen and Company's Colby Synesael.
LLC</strong> Great I just have 2 quick questions.
First off as it relates to the acquisition costs that we saw this quarter the $8 million that you called out do we expect any more of those either in the third or fourth quarter? And I was wondering if you could help quantify those.
And then my second question we did see the communications cost of goods sold decrease I think about $10 million on a sequential basis this quarter.
Curious if you could just talk about what's driving that and how much more opportunity there is to actually see cost of goods sold come down versus just simply remaining flat? I'll take the second.
Sunit you want to take the first? The acquisition cost -- first of all in the second quarter more than half or the majority of the costs related to legal fees and advisory-type fees that led to the announcement of the transaction.
We do have some amount of ongoing fees what I would describe as professional fees for integration planning.
Some of those will continue in the third quarter and I would say that they are small and we'll talk about them but they will continue in the third quarter.
The biggest chunk of expense is what I talked about in my remarks which is the interest cost GAAP interest expense associated with the borrowings.
But obviously post-transaction some of that will be offset by debt paydowns also.
With respect to cost of goods sold or using industry parlance gross margin network revenue minus network expense.
And in our case to make sure we are clear that's a pure network expense.
That is the cost of third-party connections to customers we don't connect directly to with our own network or to locations we don't connect directly to with our own network.
The answer to your question is yes.
We think we can continue to improve our gross margin percentages.
Absolute dollar declines are another matter.
As we grow revenue as Sunit mentioned to you we expect a 20% give or take gross margin.
We manage to 20%.
So if you want to oversimplify you'd say for every 4 connections we provide on our own network we expect to provide one equivalent connection 1 out of 5 that is on someone else's network.
But why not 1 out of 10 or 1 out of 3? The answer is that's our best judgment about the way we maximize cash flow.
If we said we only want to sell on our own network we would limit our ability to sell and it would be too narrow.
We said to our sales folks sell anywhere you want anytime you want with any services you want.
We might up our growth rate but we wouldn't be happy with the cash flow impact.
LLC</strong> To your point though I mean it's unique that in a recurring earning-based business model that your actual costs on an absolute basis come down and that is obviously what we saw this quarter.
I understand that the contribution margin associated to business.
I'm just trying to get at what actually led to the absolute decrease and if there's more opportunity to actually see that happen.
Yes I mean I think the biggest thing keep in mind is that the incremental margin on Wholesale Voice is like 30%.
So obviously Wholesale Voice revenues goes down for every $1.
That revenue goes down you have more than a 70% decrease in cost of sales.
So that's a big driver.
And the other one as I've said is we're adding new revenues at more than 80% gross margins.
So it's a combination of those 2 and as Jim mentioned we continue to manage expenses tightly everywhere not just in SG&amp;A but in network expense.
So there's some amount of grooming.
But the biggest driver is the fact that what is coming down the $0.70 of expense coming down for every $1 of reduction our Wholesale Voice revenues is a big big driver of that reduction.
Which is why we encourage investors to separate those 2 revenues when you assess our company.
One is CNS which is what percentage of our gross margin dollars Sunit over 90%? More than 90%.
We separate that and then take a look at that and then Wholesale Voice separately.
We'll hear now from Chris Larsen with Piper Jaffray.
First Sunit could you just give us the terms of the $650 million term facility? You've been taking down your interest expenses quite well.
I just wonder what the terms were there.
Secondly you mentioned pricing pressure in High Speed IP.
Is that in data centers? Is it one specific carrier that's doing that or is that just across the board? And then third we've have a number of tech companies like Cisco Juniper F5 Linear Technologies Riverbed all have somewhat disappointing results.
But you guys are talking about a very robust environment.
You posted robust numbers in terms of good sequential growth.
Is there a disconnect here or are those guys losing share? What is it that you think you're seeing that maybe some equipment companies necessarily aren't? Sunit while you're thinking about that first I've got a couple of comments.
With respect to equipment companies obviously you covered a lot of ground when you take somebody as large as Cisco with all of their various services Juniper et cetera et cetera.
There's a broad range of markets and a broad range of results.
What we would say is what we've said for a period of time Jeff said it I've said it Sunit said it.
20 years ago when you bought equipment for a communications network you bought industrial grade DC Telco central office grade equipment.
It might have a 386 processor in it and a central office switch would cost $10 million.
We watched that whole market change and be disrupted by consumer grade equipment servers running general-purpose operating systems Linux with software loads that mimic a central office switch.
From our perspective that same process continues.
When we build CDN clusters for instance we like others buy low-cost storage and disk drives lots of them.
And we write software to make sure we have the level of reliability.
We're watching now in Transport the same thing happen in routing where in Transport we're seeing ethernet-based services.
In routing we're seeing more and more ethernet with overlay software.
We've written our own to provide switching and reliability.
That's a huge shift.
Some win some lose some get out ahead out of this shift to consumer-grade equipment with smart software on top.
Some will struggle.
But it's one of the reasons to your second point why we don't think IP and CDN pricing is bad.
It's just dropping more rapidly than Transport.
In fact Jeff said last quarter and I think we would repeat we've seen an improvement in CDN pricing versus unit growth.
A year ago we said CDN -- or not CDN IP pricing was unhealthy.
Today we'd say it's very healthy and the same with CDN.
And the part of the reason is we use a different set of technologies.
We're watching our underlying costs drop and folks like -- and we're watching more and more uptake more and more video because as price dropped demand goes up even faster.
Sunit do you want to..? Yes the $650 million senior secured term loan that was launched this morning was at a price of LIBOR plus 425.
There will be a LIBOR floor of 125 to 150 range.
We'll see how that gets finalized.
So we're looking at roughly a cost of 5.5% to 5.75% for that financing.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Funk has our next question.
We've heard from some of the incumbent carriers this quarter and they've talked about negative business formation creeping back up and that pressuring some of their revenue stream.
And I wonder if you can you just compare and contrast what you're seeing right now in the market with regard to demand from the business customers with what you were seeing a couple of years ago in 2008.
I'll repeat what Jeff said in his remarks -- or excuse me in answer to a previous question.
If you have 90% of the market macro growth or shrinkage whether a business formation increases or we see a reduction in the absolute number of businesses you're directly affected.
The incumbents are directly affected by those macro wins.
When you have 2% or 3% of the market and you're taking share that's far less important far less important.
And we're in that latter category.
In fact who knows about the future? But in the past and again we've said this a number of times when times get a little tougher sometimes the propensity to switch on the part of Enterprises goes up.
When times get tougher people sharpen their pen or pencil and say now is the time to look at all our expenses let's see if we can do better let's see if we can shift for instance from traditional voice to a VoIP-based solution let's see if we can have an integrated access product where all our voice data and videos are with the same set of services.
That's when often the propensity to switch goes up.
So if anything we tend to think when you have 2% 3% market share when the economy maybe is a little rockier we see opportunity.
Yes and to be clear we're not seeing anything close to what we saw late in '08 when the economy completely fell off and we saw a big sharp change.
So we're not seeing anything like that.
I think to Jim's point in this kind of environment what people are looking to save cost and underlying demand for our services in terms of big consumption both at the Enterprise and the home is growing I think we are favorably leveraged.
Let me just add that if you talk to our Enterprise customers and you ask them what they want from their providers they want a local sales team dedicated sales team that they know the name.
They don't want to call into a call center.
They want a customer care team that works with them daily and weekly and regularly that they know the name and can rely on and trust where they have a face into the company not just be one of millions of millions of nameless customers.
And they want solutions.
They want us coming in with solutions to solve the problems in their network.
They want us to be flexible and responsive.
Those are the things we win on.
When we have such a low market share the business formation is less of an issue for us and if we deliver on those things that's why we grow.
And then in a recent filing I think you noted that about 4% of your and Global's customers are dual-homed with the 2 companies.
I mean is that where you see most of the revenue risk post-merger? And then what's the corresponding revenue number to that 4% of customers? Jeff or Sunit are you familiar with that statistic? I believe I know but I'm a little bit speculating so...
I think we need to get back to you on that one because 4% of all customers sounds to me high.
I mean 4% of a certain class of customers sounds more correct.
But Michael I think what you're hearing is we need to check that number.
I'll repeat though what Sunit or what Jeff said earlier.
In our merger model we think we were pretty conservative about the revenue that we would lose with respect to customers who may want diversity.
It's built into all of the numbers that we provided at the time of the announcement.
It's built into our level of confidence about synergies.
And we believe pretty strongly for all the reasons we've talked about at length there's more upside than there is downside to the combination far more.
Okay and by -- it came from your filing with the SEC from Nicholas Cliche [ph] right 2% to 4% was the number? I think that may be trends that -- or that may be DIA or a specific class of customer.
In fact I'm almost certain of it.
How many total customers we've got today? We each have about 15 000 there.
So I don't think it's 4% of total customer count.
I think it's 4% of a particular class of customers who are affected but I'll label that as preliminary.
We will come back to you.
Okay now that's it's very helpful.
There's one more like quick one here then -- you kind of walked through the regulatory process and what you've gotten for approvals and where you still are.
I didn't hear you mention Vesuvius.
Where are we in that process? That's not a public process.
We'd simply say it's proceeding as expected and we still continue to expect to close before the end of the year.
We'll take a question now from Donna Jaegers with D.A.
Davidson.
Just 2 quick ones if you would.
Jim or Jeff on CDN pricing the talk in the market's been that pricing has been down 20% 25%.
Are you seeing anything more aggressive recently? No.
Our CDN pricing is consistent kind of quarter-over-quarter and we see declines in CDN pricing.
But to Jim's point earlier we see volume growth that -- the doors to the decline in pricing.
And so on the balance it's going roughly as we expect.
Yes I think the number you just mentioned on an annualized basis is in the right ballpark.
And I'd add for High Speed IP it isn't a lot different either.
We said last year that at one point it got up into the 35-plus percent for High Speed IP and we didn't think that was too healthy.
It's much better today.
With respect to CDN the unit growth rates are staggering.
Yes I mean on both -- I mean High Speed IP and CDN revenues are growing.
Yes and then on peering I think people are concerned about -- obviously you guys ended up paying Comcast sort of a last-mile toll just to put some language around it to terminate CDN revenue.
Are you seeing any change in the level of that last-mile charge besides just being linked to volume? Let me make sure I understand your question.
Are you saying have we -- are we seeing a change with respect to Comcast or in general across the industry? Both I guess.
Is Comcast trying to charge higher rates and then are other last-mile ISPs also joining in to charge sort of last-mile tolling rates? Well I'd point you to the press release we made with respect to Cox.
I think it stands on its own and I have nothing other to add other than read the quotes and it will give you some insight.
I think Cox said they were happy and we said we're happy and consistent with our principles.
With respect to Comcast the dispute is not over.
We feel just as strongly as we always have.
And as I said earlier in this call if you have -- the threshold question is do you have a dominant position.
If you read the FCC's Open Internet Order in some -- several markets the cable provider has over a 70% market share of the home broadband market capable of supporting video.
Over 70%.
Last time I talked to anyone that's a clear definition of those in the antitrust business.
That's clear definition of dominant.
It isn't finished.
It's a huge battle as you know Donna.
It's not going to be settled in a day or a week.
But we've said all along customers are going to get what they want.
With respect to Level 3 it's not material.
We'll adjust.
If for whatever reason that those charges remain in place we'll adjust.
We're able to adjust better than most because we have a complete network our own data centers our own server clusters and our own CDN.
Yes and I mean financially as we've said in the past these charges are very small.
Obviously you can see these really had no impact on our margins or anything like that.
They're insignificant in the scheme of things.
But overall over the next 10 years we clearly are in favor of something that supports growth and allowing customers to get what they want.
Understood great.
And then one last question on obviously you redeemed some of the in-the-money converts a little early.
If other owners of those converts would want early redemption would you guys be open to that? Well it's tough to really comment on that.
These are pretty much reverse inquiries that are executed under the SEC 3-09 rules.
So it's tough to comment on it but I think what we have said and we have continued to say is that we are focused on reducing our leverage until we get down to our target debt-to-EBITDA ratio.
And our final question today comes from David Sharret with Barclays Capital.
I was going to ask on the convert.
Maybe just one other -- with respect to the secured financing that you're launching today the $650 million.
I think Sunit previously you've said you have the flexibility under your commitments there to flex that up from $650 million.
Just -- I know you're out with $650 million today.
I guess depending on demand of the market is that something that you would consider increasing from $650 million? And if you can you give us any update on how much capacity how to increase that based on covenants above $650 million? Well I mean when we announced the transaction we had lined up bridge commitments for $650 million which is what we've launched this morning.
So we just remain focused on getting that done.
Tough to see -- market's pretty volatile so it's tough for us to gauge what happens over the next few days.
But we are focused on $650 million.
And then certainly over time we do have debt coming up that we can finance and we certainly have plenty of flexibility to refinance existing debt obligations.
So where it makes sense and where we can save interest expense we would look at that.
But right now we are focused on getting $650 million done.
Well thanks to everyone for participating in the call and operator that's the end of this conference call.
And this concludes today's Level 3 Communications Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for attending and have a good day.
Good day and welcome to the Level 3 Communications Incorporated's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jessica.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Crowe Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Storey President and Chief Operating Officer; Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John Kritzmacher CFO of Global Crossing.
Before we get started as a reminder our press release supplementary information and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available on the Level 3 website at www.level3.com in the Investor Relations section on the Quarterly Financials page.
Unless otherwise noted in the press release presentation slides or in our remarks on this call the results presented are for Level 3 Communications only.
As such unless otherwise specifically noted the results that we are discussing today do not include results for Global Crossing Ltd.
We need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 3Q '11 earnings presentation and that says that information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual risks may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Finally please note that on today's call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measure and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available in the press release which is posted on our website at www.level3.com.
I will now turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Valerie.
As is our normal practice we're going to start with Sunit Patel who will discuss financial results for the quarter and the general outlook for the year.
Jeff Storey will then provide an operational update including segment results and will provide an update on the status of integration planning and implementation.
I'll provide a summary and some context and then we'll open it up to questions.
Sunit? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
I'll start off by noting that since the Global Crossing transaction closed only about 4 weeks ago and after the end of the third quarter my comments today mostly pertain to Level 3 only.
However I'll also touch on the highlights of Global Crossing's results a bit later.
Turning to Slide 3 of our presentation for an overview of third quarter results.
We had a good quarter and saw improvement in Core Network Services revenue growth again with 2% sequential CNS revenue growth and 7% year-over-year growth on an as-reported and on a constant currency basis.
Communications adjusted EBITDA increased 6% sequentially and 14% year-over-year excluding costs associated with the Global Crossing transaction.
Turning to the detailed results for the third quarter on Slide 4.
We saw sequential and year-over-year growth in Core Network Services revenue across all of our customer channels.
Our Core Network Services sales grew 8% sequentially.
Core Network Services revenue from wholesale was up 1% sequentially driven by growth primarily from our cable and carrier customers.
Large enterprise and federal and our mid-market channels both showed strong performance this quarter with 3% sequential CNS services revenue growth.
European CNS revenue increased by 5% sequentially on a constant currency basis and increased 3% as reported.
Year-over-year CNS revenue growth for Europe was 7% on a constant currency basis and 12% on an as-reported basis.
Our CDN revenue grew 9% sequentially.
Year-over-year CDN services revenue increased more than 110% and represents over 2% of our CNS revenue.
Also voice services revenue was $152 million this quarter compared to $151 million in the second quarter.
We expect continued volatility in wholesale voice services revenue since we manage these services for margin contribution versus revenue growth.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the third quarter of 2011 our total CNS revenue churn was approximately 1.3% compared to 1.5% in the second quarter of 2011.
Turning to Slide 5.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue improved to 63.1% compared to 62% in the second quarter of 2011 primarily as a result of growth in high-margin Core Network Services revenue and continued network expense savings.
Communications SG&amp;A expenses increased slightly this quarter sequentially primarily due to seasonally high utility costs increase sales and sales-related headcount partially offset by continued expense management.
We incurred $11 million in expenses associated with the Global Crossing transaction compared to $8 million in the second quarter.
We'll continue to provide updates on transaction and integration costs as they are incurred.
Turning to Slide 6.
As reported Communications adjusted EBITDA was $236 million for the third quarter of 2011 or $247 million excluding the $11 million of expenses associated with the Global Crossing transaction.
For the second quarter Communications adjusted EBITDA was $226 million as reported or $234 million excluding $8 million of Global Crossing-related expenses and was $216 million for the third quarter of 2010.
Excluding expenses associated with the Global Crossing transaction Communications adjusted EBITDA increased 6% sequentially and 14% year-over-year and remains on pace for double-digit year-over-year growth.
Communications adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 25.5% in the third quarter of 2011 or 26.6% excluding integration expenses compared to 25.6% excluding integration expenses in the second quarter of 2011 and 24.1% in the third quarter of 2010.
The EBITDA and margin growth we continue to see reflect the high degree of operating leverage we have in our business driven by high-margin CNS revenue growth.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures decreased to $110 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $125 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Turning to Slide 7.
Free cash flow was negative $42 million for the third quarter of 2011 compared to positive $6 million for the second quarter of 2011 and negative $61 million for the third quarter of 2010.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 the quarterly increase in negative cash flow was due primarily to $36 million of higher net cash interest expense and higher working capital usage primarily from a 2-day increase in our days sales outstanding.
As of September 30 2011 we had $461 million of cash on hand.
And pro forma for the Global Crossing transaction including cash on hand from Global Crossing and completion of the related financing and related acquisition activities we had $921 million of cash on the balance sheet.
Turning to Slide 8.
With the closing of the Global Crossing transaction Level 3 has repaid or discharged $1.36 billion of Global Crossing's outstanding consolidated debt.
This financing has resulted in approximately $29 million in GAAP interest expense in the third quarter and will result in an estimated incremental GAAP interest expense of $49 million in the fourth quarter which includes bridge commitment fees and interest on the Tranche B II Term Loan.
Our pro forma gross debt as of September 30 was approximately $8.55 billion and pro forma cash was $921 million.
Therefore pro forma net debt is now at approximately $7.6 billion.
This compares to gross debt of $8.23 billion and net debt of $7.39 billion as of the second quarter for both the companies combined before any acquisition financings.
Going forward we expect our annual cash and interest expense to be approximately $700 million.
With the closing of the Global Crossing acquisition we have significantly improved our credit profile.
Our September 30 "pro forma gross debt to annualized third quarter adjusted EBITDA" ratio excluding integration expenses and synergies was 6.0x and our pro forma net debt to annualized adjusted EBITDA was 5.3x.
As we grow our adjusted EBITDA from both revenue growth and synergies over the next 2 years our debt to adjusted EBITDA ratios should improve significantly.
Recently both Fitch and Moody's upgraded the company's long-term debt ratings and Standard &amp; Poor's reaffirmed our rating early in 2011 with positive implications associated with the Global Crossing transaction.
We feel comfortable with our liquidity in relationship to our upcoming maturities and cash flows over the next couple of years and we remain active in managing our debt maturities ahead of when they come due.
Turning to Slide 9.
I'd like to take a moment to provide information on Global Crossing results which are presented using historical Global Crossing definitions for all metrics.
In the third quarter of 2011 Global Crossing generated "invest and grow" revenue of $629 million.
On a constant currency basis "invest and grow" revenue increased 1% sequentially and 8% year-over-year.
The third quarter included $7 million of customer buyouts or long-term obligations which was $2 million lower than the second quarter customer buyouts.
On a constant currency basis and excluding the impact of the customer buyouts "invest and grow" revenue increased 2% sequentially and 7% year-over-year.
Sequential improvements in "invest and grow" revenue for the quarter were driven by enterprise revenue growth in the rest of the world in GC Impsat segments.
On a constant currency basis "invest and grow" revenues for the rest of the world increased 1% sequentially and 10% year-over-year and GC Impsat increased 2% sequentially and 10% year-over-year.
GCUK "invest and grow" revenues increased 1% sequentially and decreased 2% year-over-year in constant currency terms.
Turning to Slide 10.
OIBDA in the third quarter was $102 million a sequential increase of 6%.
Sequentially OIBDA growth was primarily driven by higher revenue.
Year-over-year the OIBDA decline was primarily driven by $12 million of higher accrued incentive compensation in the third quarter versus the year-ago period.
OIBDA for the second and third quarters of 2011 also included $3 million in costs associated with the transaction.
Foreign exchange movements did not materially impact OIBDA sequentially year-over-year.
On a segment basis rest of the world GC Impsat and GCUK contributed OIBDA of $25 million $55 million and $22 million respectively.
For the third quarter Global Crossing had free cash flow of negative $13 million compared with free cash flow of $10 million in the prior quarter and negative $1 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The sequential decrease in free cash flow is largely due to $13 million in higher cash interest related to timing of coupon payments and cash used for operating working capital due to a reduction in accounts payable.
Cash flow provided by operating activities for the quarter was $35 million including cash used from working capital interest payments of $49 million and $35 million in proceeds from the sale of IRUs and prepaid services.
Global Crossing used $48 million for capital expenditures.
Turning to Slide 11.
I'd like to take a moment to cover our business outlook for the fourth quarter of 2011 and the full year.
We remain confident about the business outlook we have previously provided including our expectation for continued CNS revenue growth.
Since we just closed the Global Crossing acquisition we are not providing specific fourth quarter guidance for Global Crossing.
Consistent with our previous practice we will provide a business outlook for 2012 for the combined business when we announce our fourth quarter results.
Additionally our fourth quarter and full year 2011 business outlook excludes any effect from the Global Crossing acquisition including integration and transaction costs intercompany eliminations and purchase price accounting adjustments.
We filed an amendment on Form 8-K on October 27 2011 which includes pro forma financial statements.
The estimated effects of the intercompany eliminations and preliminary purchase price adjustments on our historical financial statements are provided in this 8-K.
For example things like deferred revenue are still under review so these are just preliminarily based on historical financials.
We continue to expect sequential revenue growth for Level 3 in Core Network Services revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We also continue to expect double-digit percentage consolidated adjusted EBITDA growth for the full year 2011 compared to the full year 2010.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately 12% of Communications revenue for the full year 2011 and free cash flow is expected to be roughly breakeven for the last 3 quarters of 2011 in aggregate.
We are quite confident about the timing and amount of synergies and integration costs we expect as a result of the Global Crossing acquisition and reiterate the guidance we provided on this at the announcement of the transaction in April.
For fourth quarter reporting we plan to continue to report revenues as if -- as we have reported historically.
While we will provide consolidated revenue results across the Level 3 and Global Crossing combined business for the fourth quarter we'll continue to provide detailed revenue results whether by customer channel segment or service separately for the 2 companies in line with current reporting methodology.
We will be evaluating reporting categories for the combined company and on our fourth quarter call we'll provide a new disclosure format we will use to report results for 2012.
The combination of the 2 companies also improve the diversification of the revenue base as our top 10 customers on a combined basis now represent 18% of Communications revenue versus 26% for Level 3 on a stand-alone basis.
In summary we are pleased with the continued progress we made this quarter to grow CNS revenues manage expenses and improve our credit profile and have now turned our focus to integration while we maintain our momentum with our customers.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to give my highlights on what I believe was a solid third quarter and I'm excited to have closed the Global Crossing acquisition in early October.
I see great opportunity ahead of the combined company with an expanded customer base network coverage and product portfolio.
Sunit covered the Global Crossing results for the third quarter so I'll focus my remarks on Level 3 results and I'll also provide an update on the integration progress.
Looking at the results by customer-facing group wholesale revenues were up 1% quarter-over-quarter.
We saw growth from our cable carrier and content customers this quarter.
We continue to provide relevant scalable solutions for wholesale customer base and these customers turn to Level 3 for our broad portfolio of services that enable them to scale quickly and efficiently to meet their end-user requirements for bandwidth.
As an example high-performing IP networks are critical for the cloud-enabled applications that are driving growth in content providers and across multiple industries.
Whether for a cloud-based customer relationship management system a music storage company or a myriad of software-as-a-service offerings access to a low latency highly scalable network means a huge difference in our wholesale customers' ability to provide a great customer experience for their cloud users.
Gaming has traditionally been an area where end users are highly critical of the network experience demanding the highest levels of performance.
For this reason Level 3 has been quite successful selling our full portfolio of services to support the online gaming industry's infrastructure requirement.
A new customer we announced last month Gaikai an interactive cloud gaming service delivering popular titles such as The Sims and Mass Effect 2 from the publisher Electronic Arts is using Level 3 to support their networking needs.
Level 3 was selected based on our ability to support Gaikai's low-latency requirements our ability to scale and the consistent quality experience Level 3 enables for their end users.
Revenue for large enterprise and federal were up 3% quarter-over-quarter and Core Network Services sales increased during the quarter for these customers.
After a record sales month last June the federal group had another record month in September.
Within our mid-market group revenue grew 3% compared to the prior quarter and we are seeing particular strength from healthcare professional services and financial services customers.
We are pleased to see our efforts to focus on enterprise solutions are paying off and increase sales and revenue growth for large enterprise federal and mid-market customers.
As we projected on the last quarter's call revenue growth in Europe turned around nicely.
On a constant currency basis Core Network Services revenue in Europe grew 5% quarter-over-quarter.
We continue to see strong growth in broadcasting finance and gaming sectors for the number of new contracts won in the third quarter.
From a product perspective we saw revenue growth come from infrastructure services including fiber and data centers and from data services which was primarily driven by growth in ethernet-based services CDN and IP VPN.
Turning to pricing.
We see little change across our product portfolio from last quarter.
As has been the case for the past several quarters we see relatively stable pricing for transport and infrastructure services particularly for metro services with more aggressive pricing for point-to-point wavelengths and usage-based services such as High Speed IP and CDN.
I'd like to turn now to an update on the Global Crossing integration.
Our goal for the day of closing was to minimize disruption to customers and continue the sales growth we've seen in both companies.
We developed a plan for what we referred to as our day one operating model a comprehensive plan to enable sales to continue selling existing services while minimizing disruption to service delivery and customer support.
As part of this day one plan we established a process for customer-facing employees to escalate and resolve issues quickly to ensure the quality of our customer experience.
We also developed playbooks for key functions that serve as interim operating manuals.
While we may continue -- we may encounter some bugs along the way this approach has been successful so far and our customers have told us they are very pleased that our companies have come together to provide a platform to meet their global communications needs.
I'm also particularly pleased to report that I've met with employees around the world and everyone I've spoken to is excited about our new company and the opportunity ahead as we become the premier global communications provider.
Prior to closing and per standard legal restrictions we did not have access to detailed information about Global Crossing's sales force or customers.
Now that the acquisition is closed we've begun a more thorough evaluation of these areas.
Our sales force has nearly doubled.
We now have more than 1 000 quota-bearing headcount and approximately 400 commission sales engineers around the world.
As we've mentioned previously we intend to grow our sales force to take advantage of the opportunities we see in the market and have been happy so far with our ability to retain key sales talent.
In evaluating how the companies categorized revenue while Core Network Services and "invest and grow" revenue are mostly aligned we do see some differences.
As Sunit indicated over the coming months we'll be further analyzing revenue definitions and we'll provide you details on our fourth quarter call.
As we noted last month the company will operate through 3 geographically organized regions: North America; Latin America; and EMEA which is Europe the Middle East and Africa.
Each region will have one leader accountable for sales operations and marketing for that region.
Corporate functions will be centralized in North America and will support the company globally.
We have announced a management team that draws on the best talent from Level 3 and Global Crossing: 8 of the executives directly supporting me 4 are from Global Crossing and 4 from Level 3.
In selecting the very best of both companies we've been pleased with the balance of backgrounds that it produced.
Moving to synergies.
As we noted last month we remain confident about our synergy targets.
Just under half of our EBITDA synergies are expected to come from network expense reductions and we began executing on our plan to achieve those synergies as of the day we closed.
In fact we are already exchanging traffic between the 2 networks and have taken actions to reduce off-network expense like redirecting voice minutes which otherwise would have terminated on an off-net provider.
Our teams are hard at work to achieve network synergies in all areas as quickly as possible.
On the operating expense side our main goal is to maintain our focus on providing the industry-leading customer experience our customers expect.
Producing headcount is the secondary focus and much of the targeted reductions may occur through natural attrition.
While we have reduced headcount at the executive level our approach to headcount synergies for the broader organization is milestone-based; that is our first priority is to fully integrate functions before identifying any reductions.
The company is working on opportunities to integrate processes systems product capabilities and improve the operational excellence of our team.
Our integration team continues to work diligently to find -- to identify the effects of changes on our customers before new processes are rolled out.
Now that our day one plan is behind us we are well into our day 100 plan.
Again the key guiding principles of the plan are to maintain the sales team's focus improve the customer experience and utilize our extensive network to bring more of our products to the broader market opportunity.
In summary we are pleased with the progress we've made in growing Core Network Services revenue and sales and are pleased to have closed the Global Crossing acquisition and look to leverage what we believe to be the best set of assets and people in the communications business.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Jim.
As usual Jeff and Sunit have done a good job of summarizing the quarter and the general outlook.
For my part I'd like to emphasize a number of points.
First I believe that the kind of top line growth we've enjoyed for the last 2 quarters results from a structural position we enjoy in our market.
Our research indicates and continues to reaffirm that there is a very large market opportunity for services provided by a company that has the size scope of services and geographic presence of the larger incumbents combined with the customer focus flexibility of alternative providers.
We think we are the only such company that combines that size and flexibility in the wireline industry.
And we believe that given our small share of a very large market we can continue our growth.
We further believe that the combined company substantially enhances our ability to uniquely meet our customers' needs.
Next in my second quarter remarks I mentioned that we expected improving revenue growth rate trends and that coupled with industry-leading operating leverage we would see double-digit adjusted EBITDA growth rates.
As Sunit discussed this quarter's results displayed just that outcome with 7% year-over-year CNS revenue growth producing a 14% year-over-year growth in adjusted EBITDA after eliminating transaction expenses.
And we expect that as we continue to integrate our operations both our revenue growth rates and our operating leverage will result in substantial increases in operating cash flow and improving bottom line results.
Finally and as Jeff explained we're making great progress in both integration planning and now execution and we continue to see opportunities to improve the economics of what we think is already a great transaction.
On a related note I'd like to once again thank John Legere the CEO of Global Crossing and his entire team for their ongoing advice and assistance.
Their support is one of the reasons that our confidence in the ability of the combined company to capitalize on opportunities remains high.
That ends our prepared remarks.
Operator would you describe the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] And our first question today comes from Cowen and Company's Colby Synesael.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2.
First off on the Global Crossing acquisition I was curious if you guys are planning on providing specific revenue and EBITDA guidance to help get a better assessment of the puts and takes associated with the integration costs as well as the synergies in 2012.
Is that something we should be expecting? And then the second question I just wanted to get a better sense on Europe.
You know that that was up 5% quarter-over-quarter on a constant currency basis much better than last quarter.
I'm just curious if there was something company-specific that drove that or if it's just better execution based on the environment you're seeing.
Colby I mentioned what we are going to do with guidance for Global Crossing in the fourth quarter.
But with respect to your question on 2012 as I said when we report fourth quarter we will provide guidance going forward for 2012 on a combined-company basis.
We haven't decided what's the nature of the guidance we will provide.
As you know as has been our style we generally provide general guidance but we'll evaluate all of that and have more to say about that when we report fourth quarter.
With respect to Europe last quarter when talking about Europe I noted that the results were a little sluggish for the second quarter but said that we didn't see anything in our final forecast or the trends of the business that led to them being down going forward.
In fact we said at the time that we thought that the revenues would rebound fine and that's what we saw this quarter.
So our execution and our team there is very good and very focused and it's -- you just had something set in one quarter versus another and we see the trend that they've been on for the last couple of years and expect that to continue.
And I'd add that as we've said numerous times in the past if you're looking at the fundamentals we've got the leading IP backbone across Europe lowest latency lowest number of hops.
That leads to great opportunities to connect the growing amount of cross-border traffic.
In addition we're seeing roughly half of our CDN sales in Europe.
Gaming is particularly strong but there are a number of other segments supporting gaming.
And the team over there has done a great job of meeting the needs of content media gaming.
Put it all together and we're comfortable and confident about the future.
We'll move now to Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a question for Jeff.
I think when you did the deal you talked about getting about 2/3 of the integration synergies in 18 months.
Can you -- obviously you've closed it a little bit earlier but perhaps you could just talk to us about the phasings particularly on the network grooming side how many long-term contracts and operationally how we should expect to see those flow through.
I'd also be interested in any commentary from customers about how they're reacting to the merger.
Are they really looking to some cross-selling opportunities here? Or are you getting hearing from people you may didn't -- maybe didn't hear from because of the new assets you bring there? Sure.
With respect to synergies we said during the announcement that we expected to receive approximately 2/3 of those within the first 18 months after closing.
We still expect to see that.
We are focused on interconnecting the 2 networks looking at opportunities where we pay a third-party provider that we could provide that service ourselves and moving and grooming that over to our own networks now.
We'll continue that effort.
My guidance would be exactly in line with what we said before.
There are no -- have been no surprises and we expect to achieve that.
With respect to customers our customers have been uniformly whether they're Global Crossing customer or Level 3 customer or brand new ones our customers have been uniformly excited about this transaction.
And Jim mentioned in his comments that we went out and we talked to hundreds of customers and they have told us that they are looking for the type of telecom company that we're becoming one with the scope and scale and breadth of network and breadth of services to meet their full needs across the globe but also with the responsiveness and the agility of a nonincumbent.
And so they are very excited about this.
I think that we bring to them exactly what they've been waiting for what they've been looking for and what they've been hoping for.
And we -- on top of what Jeff said we hired a third party with experience in this area to separately from our own inquiries talk to a fair number of both Global Crossing and Level 3 customers in various segments and channels.
And it confirmed just what Jeff said: Combine the kind of solid breadth and scope and reliability that you get out of the large companies would be much easier to do business with than those large incumbents.
And so we -- all of what we thought has been confirmed both inside and by third parties.
And we'll hear now from Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an idea of your government exposure going forward? And also what is your outlook for wholesale for the combined companies? And what is -- what are the thoughts there on that exposure and how that business is trending? I'm going to take the first question and if you would take the second Jeff.
With respect to our business with the government our federal sales -- coincidentally I'm getting on an airplane right after this call to go visit several agencies that we do business with and hope to do business with.
We have had record sales in our federal channel.
And by record sales I mean sales that are 2x 3x what we've had at this time last year.
We see big opportunities.
And oddly it comes or not oddly but understandably maybe it comes because governments local state federal are all under budget pressure.
When they're not they tend to continue to do next year what they did last year.
Under budget pressure every program is reviewed every opportunity to get a better value proposition is being explored and that's a great opening for us.
So we see substantial opportunities across not just our federal channel but with the state governments with educational institutions and it's showing up in sales.
With respect to wholesale we grew our wholesale revenue 1% in the third quarter without giving specific guidance for a specific customer segment.
Let me talk about the value proposition that we bring to wholesale customers.
They value a provider that can -- that has network scale and network scope and efficiency and effectiveness and the customer experience that we deliver.
If you look at the combination of Level 3 and Global Crossing we improve on all of those fronts.
We improve on the scale of our network.
We improve on the scope of our network.
We can bring more services to greater parts of Europe to greater parts of North America to greater parts of Latin America for both companies.
Both companies have the advantage of using a network that is not available before.
Our efficiency and our effectiveness Global Crossing has a well-known reputation for being very customer-focused.
Level 3 does as well.
And we think that the value proposition for our wholesale customers has increased.
We'll take a question now from Michael Funk with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 quick questions.
I appreciate that you don't want to comment specifically on Global Crossing guidance.
I think a lot of investor attention is focused going on the Global Crossing results.
And I thought you'd just comment on what your thoughts are as far the pace and trajectory of sales installations at Global Crossing at the end of 3Q.
I understand there might have been some distractions at the end of the deal closing.
And then second do you think you can update us on your thinking around the impact of the intercarrier compensation reform over the FCC what impact that might have on Level 3? John Kritzmacher? Sure.
So first Mike in response to your question around the pace of sales and installations at Global Crossing I would say my observations are that we continued to maintain the momentum of the business; albeit if you look back we had very solid sequential growth in the second quarter versus the first.
At the time we noted that it was unusually strongly impacted by a number of items including some customer buyouts on contracts.
But when you look at the momentum the second quarter and then again in the third quarter as Sunit noted normalizing for the impacts of currency and normalizing impact with these customer buyouts we had strong 3% sequential growth in the second quarter and then strong 2% sequential growth in the third quarter.
So we're feeling good about the momentum of the business order intake continues to be strong.
On a year-to-date basis our order intake in 2011 is up 9% over 2010 so the pace is looking good.
And we continue to maintain our growth momentum.
With respect to your question about intercarrier compensation.
As you know Michael that's a relatively complicated area.
There's a I think it's a 500-page order and notice of inquiry that we need to analyze but I can make some general comments.
First we are more facilities-based than most when it comes to our wholesale voice and other voice products.
We've noted before that given our extensive local networks we're within a single connection of over 90% of the U.S.
population.
Second the Global Crossing transaction roughly increases our volume in wholesale voice by about 2/3 to something in the $900 million or $1 billion a year range which means we've got a lot of volume and a lot of scope and scale and plan to take advantage of it.
Third adding it all up together I don't think any change is going to be material in any financial sense.
There'll be puts and takes.
We continue to think that speaking specifically to that wholesale voice it's a great business that contribute cash it's part of a building block of our other services.
But it's CNS revenue growth and the kind of operating leverage we have there that really determines our results.
And we'll hear now from Michael Rollins with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the progress that you're making in the lease and mid-markets segments with respect to volume.
Can you talk a little bit more maybe about customers and customer changes versus getting more spending out of the existing customers with respect to the contributors and moving parts of those revenue lines? So Michael you blanked out at the very first part of your sentence.
What was the segment or channel you were referring to? Research Division</strong> Oh sure so if you look at the lease and the mid-market segments I was just wondering if we could think about volume relative to the number of customers and trying to understand how that's going versus maybe the spend per customer in those segments.
So I commented earlier about the federal channel and I just reiterate that we have small share of a market that is really focused on value proposition and we now have the kind of scope and scale that governments need.
We have a big federal channel.
And government is a -- both state and federal have long sales cycles.
They have inertia.
You have to propose into programs get qualified and then have individual contracts.
That's behind us and I think we look forward to a great and increasing outcome for our federal channel.
With respect to large enterprise Jeff do you want to comment? Yes.
If you look at -- if I look at large enterprise and end markets large enterprise most of our revenue growth comes from existing customers.
We have a pretty good coverage across that set of customers and as a result a majority of the wins come from our embedded base.
If you look at mid-markets and without the -- the percentage varies any given month any given quarter but something between 20% and 25% of our revenue -- of our sales come from brand-new customers.
Typically or oftentimes we go in with a small piece of their business with a plan of winning more of it over time.
And so it's pretty much in line with how we want to go in and win: get a piece of it grow our customer base the revenue from those customers over time.
I might add the combination of Global Crossing products and Level 3's it really positions us well for enterprise.
Global had a strong collaboration  suite of products.
Level 3 not as much.
Enterprises big and medium really value collaboration products so we think that's a great opportunity.
Global also had a series of VPN products that were more mature than Level 3.
We have the IP transport and most importantly the local networks so we can deliver the whole suite of products at high-gross margins.
So we're optimistic I think about the full suite of enterprise.
And I note that structurally I think you're going to see enterprise just inevitably get to be a bigger and bigger percentage of our sales.
Oppenheimer's Tim Horan has our next question.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Sunit if you add together both EBITDAs I know you have some of this in the 8-K but would it be a material difference on a pro forma basis on a combined basis? And I know with Global Crossing you're a little reluctant to give next year's guidance or will soon but can you talk about maybe for the remainder of this year? And I apologize if I missed it.
And then lastly Jim some are talking about video growth not being as robust as expected this year.
Just curious kind of what you guys are seeing there.
Okay.
I will -- I think on the 8-K that you referred to has a preliminary view on intercompany eliminations and preliminary views on purchase price adjustments based on allocation of purchase price.
So from an EBITDA perspective the only -- the intercompany eliminations impact revenues not EBITDA.
Typically when we buy companies we have to look at the deferred revenues.
There are some write-downs there.
In the scheme of the combined companies' EBITDA none of this is material as you see in the 8-K we filed.
So I think it's all material.
It's certainly not economic because of writing off noncash balances.
So I would say in aggregate not material compared to the combined companies' EBITDA.
And we'll have more specifics to provide on this when we report fourth quarter but you can see some indication of the magnitude in the 8-K filing.
With respect to your question about video growth we would not agree with the statement that video growth is slowing tailing off.
In fact what our view and believe and see in our network the opposite.
We continue to think that if anyone would like a third-party assessment of this area take a look at Cisco's Visual Networking Index.
It's as good a third-party assessment.
It's done with rigor and detail.
We agree with its general outlook and projections that is over 90% of network traffic will be video by 2014.
And I would add we believe that that projection doesn't adequately account for video to mobile devices.
That is a market that is tiny today.
As 4G is deployed we fully expect that content video gaming visual content to mobile devices to tablets will be more and more important and that's CDN technologies.
That is caching close to cell towers.
It's going to get to be a major opportunity for companies like ourselves who have a mature robust set of CDN tools not just caching content but site accelerators site transformers 2 things that allow you to speed up webpage delivery or reformat on the fly for various devices.
A good example for us is HBO GO where we have 100% of that business and we handle those tasks for HBO.
So most affirmatively we disagree and we also believe we're taking share in the broad market for video media distribution.
We'll move now to Chris Larsen with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions one on the housekeeping side.
Sunit any ideas where share-based comp and integration expenses might shake out for the fourth quarter? And then secondly one of the comments you had made earlier was that you get most of your growth from existing customers on the large enterprise side.
And I was wondering if you could comment whether that was -- is that skewed more towards more connections? Or is that skewed towards more throughput? And lastly if you can just Jim maybe make some comments around pricing what you're seeing out in the overall market in terms of is it more or less stable than maybe say 6 or 12 months ago.
Sunit? Yes.
So on share-based comp and integration expenses I don't think there'll be too much of a difference in share-based comp per se in the fourth quarter just because Global Crossing was in a different kind of plan and Level 3 will remain in the plan we have.
I think integration costs will be higher in the fourth quarter because we will have some of the transaction costs that we had and we will have just a high level of integration effort.
It will probably mark the highest possible we'll have and then it will trend down for them so tough to provide specifics.
As we said we'll report on them as we incur them but I will say generally they will be higher in the fourth quarter.
Chris for large enterprise customers your question was is our growth coming from more connections or more throughput? And it's really coming from both which is we're becoming more of their core network.
We work with our large enterprise customers and over time just continue to grow as a key piece of their infrastructure meaning adding more of their locations expanding the capacity.
As their network needs evolve and grow we continue to sell them more products and more services.
Jim mentioned CDN our CDN and our website acceleration products follow on top of our transport products and other things so it's becoming more integral in their network.
Yes I'll follow up just on that and then try to answer your question broadly about pricing.
Jeff's got his finger on a key issue that I touched on in my remarks.
The larger incumbents I think uniformly are losing share.
You can see we track this of course and they're generally lower or higher single-digit losses on the wireline side.
That kind of -- now take the size of their revenue streams and you look at the market that's becoming available.
Obviously some of that's price compression but a lot of it is a willingness on the part of large enterprise to consider switching primary providers from the incumbents.
That's a fairly new phenomenon and one we plan to take advantage of as I said in my remarks.
We're uniquely positioned big enough to have the scope scale breadth of service that the large incumbents have.
In fact arguably we have a bigger scope and scale post the Global transaction.
If you take a look at networks set of products CDN combined with the whole suite of infrastructure IP voice products it's clear that we have a broader suite of products than the very large incumbents a broader geographic scope.
And we're fully intending to be the primary choice of large enterprise and I think we're making great progress there.
With respect to pricing Jeff commented that quarter-over-quarter we haven't seen any particular change in trends.
What that means at the high level is the roughly 90% of our business that's other than usage-based fairly steady rates a healthy pricing environment.
With respect to the 10% that's High Speed IP or other usage-based services.
Right now things -- unit growth outpaces price decline that can -- depending on the market and the location and who our competitor is.
From time to time somebody in our view gets a bit outside the normal range.
But add it altogether a healthy pricing environment and we've been saying that now for quite a number of quarters.
We'll take a question now from Donna Jaegers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Question for John Kritzmacher because this is probably the last time we'll get to ask him.
3 questions really.
On the U.K.
have you guys transitioned over the FCO business yet? And then on Impsat in Latin America it looked like revenue growth was a little slower than it has been trending in the past.
Anything material going on there? And then finally on IRUs I thought you gave an amount was it $39 million for the quarter? IRUs for the quarter were 35.
IRUs and prepaids were 35 as compared to 38 in the prior quarter.
Working backwards with regard to the trend in Latin America you're probably thinking the growth trend in the second quarter for Latin America was very strong right? 7% sequential growth when we reported Latin America last period a bit slower pace.
We indicated when we reported our results for the last quarter that that was a bit unusual in terms of sequential change but the business there continues to be quite strong.
As you saw on a year-over-year basis the reported growth for Latin America is running at 10% so we're in the double-digit range.
I'm still feeling good about the pace of progress there.
And we continue to enjoy not only solid growth but very solid margins there as well.
With respect to the FCO the transition around the FCO was continuing to move at a fairly slow pace.
You may recall a while back in time we thought that would see erosion on the order of $10 million to $15 million revenue on the back half of the year.
We subsequently revised that to something more like $10 million on the back half of the year and we're now looking at something that's down in the mid to lower single digits.
So the pace of that migration has caught on more slowly.
It will migrate but it will migrate out in 2012.
And we're continuing at this point in time to serve the customer and look for new opportunities to expand our relationship.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up question for Level 3.
On your policy on IRUs Global Crossing has been using them pretty aggressively I think to help on their cash generation.
Any change in Level 3's policy going forward on selling IRUs to large carriers and companies? I think we're going to continue with the commercial practices for both companies depending or dictated by the desires of the customer and then just look at it over time.
But at this point in time we are not planning on any sharp changes.
And our final question today will come from David Dixon with FBR Research.
Research Division</strong> Yes so I appreciate your insights on Global Crossing's here on the call.
Jim it seems too early to quantify the upside opportunities from tapping Fortune 1000 companies to a greater extent incorporating Global Crossing's ability to provide you with international reach.
That's the first question.
The second question is just on the competitive positioning with your low-latency IP backbone.
What we're seeing is a major shift in the focus of capital investment from the major carriers moving away from transport towards more of a data center focus.
And from proprietary standards we've seen a rise for companies like Cisco to move on a kind of standard platform.
And I'm just wondering if you'd talk about your competitive positioning in the data center arena relative to those shifts that we're now seeing there.
And then lastly just on the CDN outlook I wondered if you can update us on the pressures that you're seeing from other networks regarding a push to change the tiering model something we've seen for some time now.
I'm just wondering how you would evaluate the risk of not migrating to that model over time and whether the tiering is significant in your view.
With respect to -- I wasn't able to write quite fast enough there so I had to get a repeat of the question there from Jeff.
With respect to our competitive positioning we talked quite extensively about this at the time we announced the merger and in the days thereafter.
There are most I guess if not all of the Fortune 1000 and many many other companies that might be smaller and fast-growing whose  businesses don't stop at water's edge or the borders of countries.
In fact most companies today that get started live on the web or to use the current term cloud-based in many ways.
And they have a global market almost from the day they're formed.
There is no communications company that has facilities that match up with that group of customers period.
You can buy the services of somebody to coordinate provision of services by the various PTTs or local in-country communications companies.
You can buy systems integrator services.
But if you're looking for someone to provide you end-to-end service with a suite of modern-based transport -- IP VPN CDN we think we enjoy a fairly unique position.
With respect to the outlook we feel positive and strong.
The specifics of course we'll provide our outlook as Sunit said at the end of the fourth quarter.
With respect to your observations about the trends in data centers we agree and have for some time.
We've been saying and our Chief Technology Officer Jack Waters I think has said this for a number of years: There's a sea change going on in technology.
15 20 years ago large enterprises carriers led the charge with respect to developing technologies.
Today it's flipped around and look to consumers and large-scale consumer components and you build carrier costs enterprise-class functionality out of lots of low-cost commodity components tied together with sophisticated software.
By the way that's precisely what CDN is.
And from the start commodity servers commodity -- or open-source operating systems to build our server clusters which are huge stores of information whole libraries of many of the streaming providers duplicated in several parts of the country.
So we agree we think it's open source we think it's market-based standards.
We think that if you are not able to capture that curve and you're tied into proprietary standards or centrally planned standards you're going to end up noncompetitive over time.
But with respect to our approach to data centers we've said all along we think the word "data center" needs to be subdivided into segments and markets.
There are in our view 7 or 8 such segments ranging from those who live and provide their services from a data center Google or Microsoft to more and more of those who perfectively are network-based providers of services of various sorts.
At the other end there are smaller companies that need a whole suite of services from one source.
We our segment our focus tends to be on those who need a combination of data center services and access to substantial amounts of bandwidth and I'd add now globally.
And we think there's a very large opportunity there.
The statistics obviously are available.
We already operate one of the industry's largest collection of data center space and we see nothing but growth opportunity there.
I might add that GC Impsat has been a leader by the way in a number of areas of data center services that we plan to really spend some time understanding and looking to deploy further.
With respect to your question about CDN -- CDN I think 2 or 3 years ago we said CDN needs to be viewed as a part of a carrier business.
If you believe what I said earlier and what a number of observers have mentioned that video whether you think it's going to be 90% in 2014 or 85% or 95% if you think the trend is clear you can't be in the carrier business if you don't have CDN.
You cannot allocate enough capital either in access networks or in backbone networks to simply say "I'm going to provision enough bandwidth to cover all the traffic that's coming." The math doesn't work.
You're off by an order of magnitude.
You cannot get a return simply by throwing bandwidth at it.
You have to have in effect smart caching.
You have to store copies intelligently.
You have to have site transformers and site accelerators.
We've said that all along.
The other half of that statement is if you're simply providing a CDN service and you don't own the bandwidth you're going to not be able to have a competitive product over time.
And we would argue and we believe it's visible that those trends are playing out.
Well thanks everyone for listening in.
We look forward to reporting the fourth quarter full year.
Obviously that'll be an important report.
And we'll try to provide you as much insight as we possibly can.
That's the end of the call operator.
This concludes today's Level 3 Communications Incorporated's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for attending and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Communications Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday February 8 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Crowe Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Storey President and Chief Operating Officer; Sunit Patel Chief Financial Officer; and our Vice Chairman Buddy Miller.
Before we get started as a reminder our press release and the presentation slides that accompany this call as well as our detailed supplemental schedules are all available on the Level 3 website in the Investor Relations section on the Quarterly Financials page.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 4Q '11 earnings presentation and that says that information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Finally please note that on today's call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available in the press release which is posted on our website at www.level3.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Valerie.
As is our normal custom in our prepared remarks we'll start with our Chief Financial Officer Sunit Patel who will discuss results for the quarter and the year and provide an outlook for 2012.
Jeff Storey will take over and discuss operational and matters including segment results pricing trends status of integration.
I'll provide some strategic commentary and then we'll open it up for questions.
Sunit? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Before I review the details I'd like to start on Slide 3 with some highlights of the combined company and our performance for the quarter.
Our quality and diversification revenue base improved significantly with the combination with Global Crossing.
By now we have about $6.3 billion in annual revenues with 62% of the revenues from enterprise customers and we expect that percentage to grow in the future.
By comparison in 2010 only about 40% of Level 3's revenues were from enterprise customers.
About 71% of our CNS revenue are from the U.S.
17% from EMEA and 12% from Latin America.
Our credit profile improved sharply as we reduced net debt to adjusted EBITDA from about 7x at the end of 2010 to less than 6x at the end of 2011.
On a standalone basis Level 3 had a great year.
We grew CNS revenues every quarter throughout the year with sharp improvement in the fourth quarter and grew adjusted EBITDA 13% for the full year 2010 (sic) [2011] excluding the effects of the Global Crossing acquisition.
Turning to Slide 4 of our presentation for an overview of Level 3 standalone fourth quarter results we ended the year on a strong note.
Please keep in mind that all -- in all of the results in my discussion here exclude the effects of intercompany eliminations and purchase price -- purchase accounting adjustments with Global Crossing and acquisition-related costs.
Core Network Services revenue grew by 2.6% sequentially and 7.9% year-over-year on a constant currency basis.
Adjusted EBITDA increased sequentially at 15% year-over-year.
We had a great quarter for free cash flow generating $103 million of positive free cash flow.
For Global Crossing on a constant currency basis Invest and Grow revenues declined 1% sequentially and increased 3% year-over-year.
Sequential declines were a result of expected declines in U.K.
government revenues.
Excluding U.K.
government revenues Invest and Grow revenues were roughly flat sequentially.
Invest and Grow revenues for GC Impsat grew 2% sequentially with particular strength from enterprise customers.
We continued to improve our maturity profile and liquidity position through transactions during the quarter and earlier this year.
Turning to the detailed results for the fourth quarter on Slide 5.
Level 3 on a standalone basis saw a sequential and year-over-year growth in Core Network Services revenue across all of our customer channels.
Our CDN revenue grew 14% sequentially compared to 9% in the prior quarter.
Compared to the fourth quarter in 2010 CDN revenue grew 91%.
With our larger revenue base CDN services revenue now represent 1.6% of our CNS revenue.
Also Voice Services revenue was $144 million this quarter compared to $152 million in the third quarter.
As we are continuing to manage our combined Wholesale Voice platform for margin growth we expect continued volatility in Wholesale Voice Services revenue going forward.
At the bottom of Slide 5 for the fourth quarter of 2011 Level 3 CNS revenue churn was approximately 1.2% compared to 1.3% in the third quarter of 2011.
Turning to Slide 6.
Gross margin as a percent of revenue improved to 63.4% in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to 63.1% in the third quarter of 2011 and 61.1% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This was primarily as a result of growth in high incremental margin Core Network Services revenue continued network expense savings and a decrease in lower margin Wholesale Voice Services revenue.
SG&amp;A expense decreased slightly to $337 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $338 million in the third quarter of 2011.
We incurred $26 million and $11 million in acquisition-related costs in the fourth and third quarter of 2011 respectively.
We'll continue to provide updates on integration costs as they are incurred.
Turning to Slide 7.
Adjusted EBITDA increased sequentially to $255 million in the fourth quarter compared to $247 million in the third quarter of 2011.
For the full year 2011 adjusted EBITDA grew 13% over the full year 2010 to $961 million.
The increase was a result of growth in high incremental margins CNS services and continued cost optimization on our network expense.
At the bottom of Slide 7 as you can see for the full year 2011 capital expenditures were approximately 12% of revenues on par with 2010 levels but with improved revenue growth performance in 2011 as we take greater advantage of our existing network assets.
Turning to Slide 8.
Free cash flow was positive $103 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to negative $34 million for the third quarter of 2011 and positive $71 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
We had strong cash collections in the fourth quarter and working capital was a source of cash.
Turning to Slide 9 I'd like to review Global Crossing's results on a standalone basis.
These results are presented using historical Global Crossing definitions for all metrics and once again exclude the effects of intercompany eliminations with Level 3 purchase accounting adjustments associated with the acquisition of Global Crossing by Level 3 and excludes transaction and integration costs.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 Global Crossing generated Invest and Grow revenue of $603 million.
Excluding the effects of the $7 million of customer buyouts and long-term obligations in the third quarter of 2011 which we talked about last quarter Invest and Grow revenue grew declined 1% sequentially and increased 3% year-over-year on a constant currency basis.
Sequential declines in Invest and Grow revenue for the quarter were driven by declines in U.K.
government revenue partially offset by growth in GC Impsat revenue.
On a constant currency basis GC Impsat revenues grew 2% sequentially and revenues from enterprise customers in Latin America grew approximately 4% sequentially.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue Invest and Grow revenue was roughly flat quarter-over-quarter on a constant currency basis.
Turning to Slide 10.
OIBDA in the fourth quarter was $89 million compared to $105 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The decline was primarily as a result of the $7 million from early termination revenue recognized in the third quarter of 2011 which did not recur this quarter and lower revenue from GCUK.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 Global Crossing generated free cash flow of $23 million compared to negative $13 million in the prior quarter.
Turning to Slide 11 I'd like to take a moment to discuss our results on a pro forma consolidated basis.
The company generated approximately $1.37 billion of Core Network Services revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011 and $5.4 billion for the full year 2011.
On a consolidated basis Wholesale Voice and Other was $915 million for the full year 2011.
As I mentioned earlier we plan to manage Wholesale Voice Services for margin contribution versus revenue growth so we expect to see continued volatility in that line.
Other Communications revenue was roughly 1% of total consolidated revenues for the full year 2011 and we expect it to decline at the rates we've seen over the past several years.
For 2011 the total revenue and adjusted EBITDA excluding acquisition-related transaction and integration costs but including the effect of intercompany eliminations and purchase price accountings was $6.318 billion for total revenues and $1.303 billion for adjusted EBITDA.
Our adjusted EBITDA margin for 2011 with those figures is 20.6%.
Going to synergies.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 we achieved approximately $37 million of run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies with network expense synergies of roughly $10 million and operating expense synergies of roughly $27 million.
Our revenue reporting format for 2012 is provided on Slide 12.
Core Network Services is based on the combination of Level 3 CNS revenue and Global Crossing Invest and Grow revenue with some minor reclassifications between the Invest and Grow revenue and also Voice Services revenue categories to reflect a common alignment of revenue definitions for 2012 reporting for the consolidated company.
As you can see we are reporting CNS revenue by region and further by wholesale and enterprise revenues within each region.
Additionally we are providing a separate breakout of U.K.
government revenue within the EMEA region which grows up into overall enterprise revenue for the company.
Also we are combining Wholesale Voice and Other Communications revenue.
A few highlights on the results in this reporting format.
On a constant currency basis enterprise revenue was up 2% sequentially or 3% if you exclude U.K.
government revenue.
We expect U.K.
government revenue to continue to be under pressure this year.
Latin America enterprise revenue remained strong with 4% sequential growth this quarter.
North American Enterprise revenue also grew nicely at 3% sequential growth in the fourth quarter.
Also revenues declined 1% sequentially while overall CNS revenues was up 1% sequentially on a constant currency basis.
Turning to Slide 13.
We announced 2 capital markets transactions since our third quarter 2011 earnings call.
During the fourth quarter we obtained a $550 million aggregate principal amount Tranche B III Term Loan that matures in 2018.
The net proceeds were used to prepay the $280 million term loan and redeeming the $274 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 3.5% convertible notes due 2012.
We recognized a loss of $27 million or $0.13 per share on these prepayment and redemption transactions.
After the close of the quarter we issued $900 million of 8 5/8% senior notes due 2020.
In conjunction with this transaction we are redeeming the $807 million to the outstanding principal amount of our 9 1/4% senior notes due 2014.
In the first quarter of 2012 we expect to recognize a $22 million loss associated with this redemption.
As of December 31 2011 we had cash on hand of $918 million or $951 million pro forma for the capital markets transaction in early 2012.
We feel very good about our improving credit profile maturity schedule and liquidity position and we'll continue to be opportunistic in managing our debt maturities.
Turning to Slide 14 on 2012 business outlook.
We expect Core Network Services revenue to continue to grow sequentially.
From a consolidated adjusted EBITDA in 2011 of $1.216 billion we expect 20% to 25% growth for the full year 2012 over the full year 2011.
Both years include acquisition-related integration and transaction costs.
We expect our 2012 acquisition-related costs most of which will be integration costs to be roughly comparable to the $87 million of acquisition-related costs in 2011.
We expect the strong adjusted EBITDA growth to come from growth in Core Network Services revenue and cost synergies.
We expect GAAP interest expense of approximately $740 million and net cash interest expense of approximately $680 million for the full year 2012.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately 12% of revenue including capital expenditures associated with integration for the full year 2012.
Free cash flow for the full year 2012 is expected to be negative.
We expect working capital to be a use of cash as we reduce the average number of days to pay suppliers across the company and other integration costs to deal with previously disclosed tax and litigation matters for Global Crossing.
We're quite confident about the timing and amount of synergies we expect as a result of the Global Crossing acquisition and continue to expect run rate EBITDA synergies of $300 million and CapEx synergies of $40 million as we had previously guided.
As part of the acquisition of Global Crossing the company evaluated and revised the estimated useful lives of its fixed assets and determined that the period it expected to use core [ph] fiber and transmission equipment was longer than the remaining useful lives originally estimated.
While this change was made for the fourth quarter 2011 as a result for the full year 2012 depreciation and amortization is expected to be approximately $780 million.
For the first quarter 2012 as is consistent with previous years free cash flow use is heavy in the first quarter driven by working capital uses due to annual bonus payments prepayments maintenance contracts property and payroll tax payments and $60 million in higher sequential cash interest expense.
In summary we had a strong 2011 and are now focused on operational execution for 2012.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to start off with the highlights on the overall company and follow that with a review of the performance of Level 3 and Global Crossing on a standalone basis.
In the future I will only report on the results of the combined company.
But today given that the transaction closed in the fourth quarter I will address the standalone companies as well.
At the time of our third quarter earnings call we had just closed the Global Crossing transaction a few weeks earlier.
Now we recently passed the milestone of 100 days as a combined business.
We are pleased with the progress we've made in coming together as the new Level 3 and we continue to be excited about the opportunities we have across our extended network our product portfolio and our people.
We are maintaining our intense focus on the customer experience we provide and our customers continue to be excited about the strength of our business.
For the past few months our sales teams have been working to reduce channel and account manager overlap.
In reality this is an ongoing process that never ends but we feel that we've made good progress so far.
We are also rationalizing our product portfolio and identifying the key go-forward products for the company.
Through ongoing training and the operational support model we've established we are working to enable every salesperson to sell the full product portfolio appropriate for the opportunity and the geography.
We are progressing from a network integration perspective as well.
The voice networks were interconnected quickly and we have been exchanging voice minutes for several months.
Interconnection of our transport backbone continues and we are very focused on reducing third-party expenses for off net capacity.
As Sunit mentioned we've already begun to make progress in realizing synergies in this key area.
Further our procurement and network teams are aggressively targeting ways to reduce equipment costs and combine the extent of both companies in order to benefit from greater volume purchases.
We remain confident that we will meet our targeted NetEx and CapEx synergies.
From our customers we continue to hear that they are excited about the opportunity for Level 3 to be the new type of telecom company they've been seeking a company with a broad set of solutions to meet the challenges they face a network with the scopes to deliver those solutions worldwide but also an organization that's easy to do business with and focused on delivering the best customer experience in the industry.
We feel we are well positioned to meet their expectations.
Turning to the standalone results for legacy Level 3 we are pleased with another quarter of Core Network Services revenue growth.
CNS revenue grew across all of our customer groups with strong growth from our large enterprise and federal business growing 5% sequentially this quarter.
Mid-market grew 1% this quarter and 9% year-over-year which represents the sixth consecutive quarter of sequential CNS revenue growth for this customer group.
Wholesale services grew 2% sequentially primarily a result of strong seasonal growth in our media and entertainment business.
Our European business continues to do well growing 4% this quarter on a constant currency basis.
We also saw good traction in the quarter with the European Enterprise market as well as content providers.
Throughout 2011 Level 3 focused on the disciplined investing and high margin services and expanding our enterprise focus.
Our performance for the year demonstrates the results from this approach.
Turning to Global Crossing.
On a standalone basis results were more mixed.
For the rest of the world region as we mentioned last quarter Global Crossing had a $7 million one-time benefit from early termination revenue in the third quarter.
Excluding the effect of this one-time item Invest and Grow revenue for the Rest of the World was flat sequentially.
As expected GCUK saw continued pressure from declines in U.K.
government revenue as well.
For GC Latin America revenue from enterprises continued to show strong performance increasing 4% sequentially on a constant currency basis.
Wholesale revenue in Lat Am was negatively affected by a large known disconnect that occurred in the beginning of October.
As we look to the 3 regions of the company on a going-forward basis North America EMEA and Latin America I'd like to give some color on our progress and what we are seeing in the market.
Overall as you can see in the 2012 reporting format in the press release enterprise growth globally was strong growing 2% sequentially on a constant currency basis.
If you exclude U.K.
government revenue the growth would have been 3% sequentially.
We believe we are well positioned to take share in all of the regions where we do business and we'll continue our disciplined approach to investing capital to bring more buildings on-net and other investment in support of this growth.
Globally our combined wholesale business declined 1% sequentially.
And while we do expect some pressure going forward we see opportunities to leverage our global network footprint to carriers.
Demand for subsea capacity both Transatlantic and Transpacific remains strong.
Execution of our cross-sell/upsell strategy for the combined service portfolio especially collaboration international transport and VPN is expected to result to new opportunities and a broader penetration of customers purchasing multiple product lines.
In North America we continue to see growth opportunities with our large and mid-market enterprise customers as well as with our government customers.
These customers are looking for a scalable reliable provider with a product portfolio to meet their global needs.
As an example Level 3 provides network connectivity to meet the bandwidth needs of Shriners Hospitals for children.
Shriners Hospitals is a one-of-a-kind international health care system of 22 hospitals dedicated to improving the lives of children by providing specialty pediatric care innovative research and outstanding teaching programs.
Like many health care providers Shriners is faced with significantly increasing bandwidth requirements while also dealing with budget pressures.
Level 3 connects all of Shriners' 22 locations with VPN services.
And by providing multiple services over this network Shriners is able to meet their full range of communications need including data voice video support for telemedicine and other requirements in a cost-effective and easily scalable manner.
In EMEA we see the opportunity to leverage our rich intercity U.K.
network our extensive long-haul network across continental Europe and the continued expansion of on-net buildings to grow our enterprise business.
We already have plans for the EMEA team to mitigate and reverse revenue declines with the U.K.
government.
We are organizing our business to win in new central government departments and local government and implementing measures to mitigate the effect of known revenue declines on the overall gross margin.
I'm very excited about the opportunity to sell to U.K.
enterprises.
Prior to closing Global Crossing already had efforts underway to sell to the significant portion of enterprises passed by our network.
I believe we can accelerate this effort given the company's stronger financial and operational capabilities.
We are focused on maximizing the productivity of our EMEA sales force most notably around enterprise quota-bearing headcount which increased 29% in 2011.
We have seen an increase in sales productivity from QBHC that had been on board for at least a year compared to those whose tenure is 6 months or less.
Going forward we are working to increase sales by reducing the ramp time of our sales people enabling them to sell the full-service capabilities of the company through cross product training and marketing campaigns as well as the investment in new building ads that will create new opportunities for our U.K.
sales force.
By the end of the first quarter of 2012 we expect to have the majority of our enterprise sales people fully trained and able to sell the complete portfolio.
Across EMEA our sales teams are primarily focused on selling high incremental gross margin monthly recurring revenue services.
And we will reduce the focus on early termination fees and lower margin equipment sales.
I mentioned the results for Latin America when discussing Global Crossing standalone but we continued to see strong growth opportunities in the region.
Throughout 2011 the Enterprise business showed strong sequential revenue growth on a constant currency basis.
The market continues to experience strong demand and we believe that we are well positioned to address these demands.
Brazil Colombia and Argentina represent particular areas of opportunity for us.
Today we believe we have good opportunities to grow and intend to leverage the North American and European sales forces to sell our Lat Am infrastructure.
In general we are confident that just as we have demonstrated over the last several quarters at legacy Level 3 the combination of an excellent customer experience great products additional sales people and an expanding addressable market resulting from our disciplined investment in connecting our network to buildings data centers and other customer locations is a proven formula for increasing revenue growth rates.
That formula has resulted in a very positive revenue growth rate with the last 3 consecutive quarters of growth averaging 2.2%.
The new Level 3 will continue to follow the same approach that has driven our growth in 2011.
Turning to pricing we have seen little change in the competitive environment from what I have been reporting earlier in 2011.
We continue to see aggressive pricing for High Speed IP CDN and point-to-point labeling services particularly in Europe but offset by increases in demand.
As a point of reference IP and CDN services represent about 11% of our CNS revenue.
Before I close I'd like to provide additional remarks on where we are focused as we look to 2012.
Customer experience remains a key priority.
With every acquisition we've done we've learned valuable lessons.
We know without a doubt the more you listen to your customer the better off you are.
To that end we continue implementing a comprehensive set of metrics to monitor customer satisfaction as an early warning system for the company.
Jim and I both take escalations directly from customers.
On at least an individual basis I know that I've not seen a marked increase in the number of escalations I've received from customers since the transaction closed.
Since I provide my cell phone number and my e-mail address to our customers I take this is a good sign.
However this is an area where you can never be too diligent.
We will keep our eyes wide open and focus on the customer.
I have no doubt we'll make mistakes but when we do we will react quickly.
We've reduced headcount at the executive level.
But closely related to our customer experience focus our approach to headcount synergies for the broader organization remains milestone-based.
That is our first priority is to integrate functions before identifying reductions.
From an overall perspective I expect us to grow as an organization as we ramp to meet the opportunities in front of us.
In summary we are optimistic about our opportunities.
We are maintaining our customer experience and have consolidated the organization into 3 regions to fully address customer opportunities within each region.
We remain confident about our synergy targets and the strength of the company.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Jim.
Thanks Jeff.
As Jeff and Sunit said after this earnings release we'll no longer refer to Level 3 and Global Crossing separately.
We're one company.
So I'd like to take this opportunity to make some comments about Level 3 standalone performance.
Since Jeff Storey arrived at the end of 2008 he and his team have made some outstanding improvements in almost every operational area from sales effectiveness to customer satisfaction.
I point to improvements in the CNS revenue growth rates as an example of what's been accomplished.
From the fourth quarter of 2008 to the fourth quarter of 2009 CNS revenues declined by approximately 10% in part because of our problems installing services we've sold within the kind of standard time frames we promised and because of the customer buying strike that resulted from the credit crisis.
Contrast that with the fourth quarter of 2010 through the fourth quarter of 2011 where our CNS revenue increased by just a bit below 8% and importantly has displayed an accelerating quarterly trend line culminating in the 2.6% discussed in the press release.
I believe this is industry-leading performance for larger wireline service providers and I'd like to recognize Jeff and his team for this turnaround.
Turning to the combined company's strategic outlook I'd like to make 3 points.
We indicated that we expect adjusted EBITDA including all transaction expense to grow between 20% and 25% in 2012.
Given that CapEx and interest expense will grow at a much smaller rate than this our ability to generate free cash flow should improve markedly over the next 4 to 6 quarters.
I believe the demand for our approximately $1.5 billion of debt that we sold last year is a clear indicator that the debt markets understand this trend line.
For some time now we have said that video delivery over the Internet will come to dominate global communications traffic.
We've also said that combining an IP optical network with CDN technology is a tremendous advantage in meeting this demand.
Since owning bandwidth is a major determinant of both the cost of service and the product quality and features we think we're in a great position not just to meet the demand created by more and more video sold to individuals at their home entertainment gaming et cetera but also the clearly growing demand to embed video in every enterprise communications a trend we see clearly.
A good portion of the growth that we see comes for instance from the federal government that increasingly embed videos in their websites as do other enterprises.
The growth in our CDN product a revenue highlighted by Sunit is evidence of our leadership in this strategic product line and positions us well over the coming years.
Now finally I'd like to underline something Jeff said.
The turnaround in Level 3's revenue growth rate was the result of actions we think we understand clearly.
We are laser-focused on offering great products and great service sold by an increasing number of effective salespeople who sell to a growing addressable market created by connecting more and more customers directly to our network.
We expect and are applying that same formula to the combined company with the added advantages that we now have substantially more network reach on a global basis.
We have clearly more financial and operational resources and we expect results to be clearly visible in the coming quarters.
Operator that ends our prepared remarks.
Please describe the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Donna Jaegers of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I have a question just on the Latin American growth.
The Enterprise growth looks good but can you sort of clarify what you meant by the loss of the wholesale customer? And then also give us some visibility on data center capacity that you have in Latin America? This was driving a lot of Global Crossing's growth and I think they were getting a little tied on capacity.
Sure.
The wholesale customer was a known disconnect that a big customer of ours from a few years ago was acquired by somebody that had network themselves and at the termination of that contract that circuit went away which occurred at the beginning of October.
So it was largely realized through the first -- through the fourth quarter.
On the data center data center is great part of our business in Latin America and we continue to invest in the data centers.
There are places where we are tied in capacity.
And the Latin America team is working to augment capacity.
We have given them capital focused on those opportunities.
There are places where we have plenty of capacity and so it's a key part of our business and we can expect to continue to grow it.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Funk of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> First a clarification on the EBITDA guidance that you gave.
It's pretty clear there.
If I back into a revenue growth guidance it seems you're suggesting a mid-single-digit top line growth estimate for 2012.
I just wanted to clarify if my math is correct on that.
And then just second on the CapEx can you have more clarity or conversation around the breakdown of the growth versus maintenance CapEx? And how do you plan on allocating that geographically during 2012? For example Latin America versus North America and some of the growth expectations around those projects? Sure.
So on the EBITDA guidance as it pertains to revenue growth Michael I think that the incremental margins we've talked about before meaning 60% incremental margins to the EBITDA line that continues.
If you back compute from there I think you get generally in the range you're talking about but I think that again it's tough to say at this stage as Jeff pointed out we're so focused on investing -- which leads to your second question -- to position us for more revenue growth which is that if you look at our CapEx guidance the combined company last year CapEx as a percent of revenue was in the 10-plus percent range; we're spending 12%.
So even though we have some level of integration CapEx in 2012 we also have savings from synergies from the CapEx line.
So I think in general we're investing more this year than we did last year as a combined company.
And I think that your question on maintenance CapEx we think maintenance CapEx is probably about $200 million or $250 million.
And in terms of allocation of CapEx it's allocated in several different places.
I walked through that.
So number one generally we're going to invest more in metro as we establish more on-net connectivity to our customers not just for cost savings on the NetEx side but also to win more business and create more stickier business with our customers.
And that applies in the U.S.
where we have extensive metro networks in Latin America where we have extensive metro networks and in the U.K.
In addition we'll do other investments on the product side along the lines Jeff talked about for example on data centers in Latin America wiring up more life-supporting menus across those 3 continents so delve on the product side.
And we'll continue with the Level 3 strategy on geographic expansions.
As you know our EMEA business has been adding a couple of new geographies every year.
We'll continue to do that.
So I think our allocation of capital we now have more growth engines.
One of the big benefits of a more diversified revenue base is we have more growth engines which means we can spread our bets across more places and we have plenty of more places to put money to work which means we can maintain our payback criteria that we had as a standalone company.
So I think the combination of more investment and taking advantage of more network that we can sell to more customers and more products we feel pretty excited about.
Our next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You referenced the strong CNS revenue growth at Level 3 of 2.6%.
Can you just talk about the drivers behind that? To what extent are you seeing macroeconomic improvements that businesses are really becoming a lot more confident in the future and that this is sort of a sustainable recovery? And then on the synergies Sunit I think in the past you said $300 million in OpEx synergies should get 2/3 of that in 18 months.
Is that still the right sort of time frame? So by sort of at the end of this year you're looking at $200 million or so on an annualized rate as part of that EBITDA improvement? Yes let me go to the synergy question and Jeff can go to the other one.
On the synergy what we say is we expect to hit 2/3 of the $300 million run rate in EBITDA synergies 18 months from closing so that will be sometime early next year.
And yes we remain quite confident of that.
With respect to the 2.6% CNS revenue growth in the quarter primarily predominantly we're seeing that come from enterprise customers; federal government included in the enterprise customer group.
We're seeing strong growth in Enterprise data services so VPN and transport and the other types of products that we can offer on the regional and the national and the global basis that many cannot provide.
And so from a macroeconomic environment I've said for the last couple of years that our ability to win is based on the quality of the service we provide the quality of the products we provide and the scope and reach and cost effectiveness of our network.
And we think those are the key drivers just right behind 2.6% growth in the last quarter and the growth that we've seen over the past several quarters.
Id comment that the trend line growth you've seen is right through any broader economic disruptions and we think it's the result of some trends that are durable.
Those trends include the word "virtualization " which is used a lot and sometimes imprecisely.
But virtualization of computing capacity that is Cloud computing where customers gain both economic and service value by in effect outsourcing IT to those who specialize in particular vertical forms of applications.
That kind of virtualization clearly a big driver.
It doesn't work without virtualization of connectivity so there's this big trend towards virtualization of IP IP VPN virtualization of Ethernet Ethernet VPNs.
There's a major trend given that's connected to both virtualization of processing and virtualization of network to focus on network-based security.
I'm sure everyone on the call is more than well aware of the importance of network-based security.
We are a clear leader in all 3 of those areas.
Sunit mentioned investment.
Those are 3 areas we're certainly focused on.
Finally I'd say there's this secular trend towards distribution of video with bandwidth requirements literally thousands of times greater than a webpage browsing session.
That requires some pretty sophisticated technology we started working on 5 years ago.
We think you're seeing the results today.
So you add them all up we think you may find some weakness in the macro-economy certainly that affects additional services provided by traditional carriers.
But what we're selling to customers that we're addressing we've seen no evidence.
Let me put it this way.
If we didn't read the papers we certainly wouldn't see any weakness in demand.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> You don't have the breakdown of EBITDA by the quarter on a consolidated basis for the year do you? Because it looks like you don't -- what you're reporting this quarter is kind of well above what you're saying in the full year as in $1.2 billion $1.6 billion.
Or maybe you can just talk about what really drove up the increase this quarter versus what we saw for the full year.
And then just secondly on the overall competitive environment maybe you can just discuss how the customers feel about your global footprint now and who you're really looking at for -- your main competitors now in the global basis.
I'll take the EBITDA question.
I mean I think that we have provided EBITDA in several different ways so you can look at both -- well one is for the fourth quarter of 2011 and for the full year 2011 with or without acquisition-related cost.
And as I mentioned for the full year it was $1.303 billion excluding the acquisition-related costs.
And for the fourth quarter I mean the run rate in the fourth quarter excluding acquisition-related cost was about $1.328 billion roughly.
I think that you see that in the presentation on Slide 11.
So I think that with everything going on the increase in EBITDA in the fourth quarter for Level 3 was driven by as I said revenue growth and just continued network expense optimization.
So Tim I don't if that's the question you're asking...
Research Division</strong> Yes sorry Sunit I missed that at that the beginning.
I apologize.
But is this -- I guess the bigger question is this revenue you reported this quarter in EBITDA is this a good run rate to build off of for the future as you're looking at all the puts and takes? Yes yes.
I think both the fourth quarter and the annual numbers are -- they are pretty close if you look at them from an EBITDA perspective.
So yes the answer is yes that's a good run rate to build from.
And Sunit underlined a couple of times and I'd underline the projections -- the year-over-year projections include integration expenses.
So the guidance is comparable fourth quarter to first quarter.
With respect to your second question over the last I guess from the time of closing to right up to today Jeff Storey Buddy Miller -- our Vice Chairman who handles Corporate Development M&amp;A who's here in the room myself Sunit and several other executives have been touring the country and in extended meetings have been interacting with customers.
I think the number is several high several hundred.
I think personally I've interacted with about 300 in several meetings on both coasts.
We also have hired now a couple of different third parties to interview existing customers of both Level 3 and Global Crossing.
So to answer your question it's at least informed by an effort to really dig deep.
As Jeff said and I think anyone that talks with customers will hear over and over again customers have for some time wanted an organization with the depth the breadth and the perceived stability of an AT&amp;T or a Verizon but somebody that's easy to do business with.
I've said a number of times that AT&amp;T and Verizon are outstanding companies great competitors and serious business people.
But they've got a lot on their plate.
They're focused on wireless broadband to the home the multinationals that happen to be headquartered in their industry.
And at least in our point of view the broad business market is lower down on the priority list in terms of capital in terms of intellectual investment.
And you can see it in the top line; they're shrinking.
We think that creates an enormous opportunity to do exactly what customers tell us they want invest in connecting their networks with the kind of products that meet future needs the kinds of products I've discussed with the last conversation about with Simon Flannery about the security virtualized networks -- communications networks virtualized IT infrastructure and applications at least the part of the supply chain we participate in and then security.
So we are absolutely focused on doing what our customers tell us be stable be a good partner invest in what we need globally.
And we think the results are visible.
We think it's a formula we can duplicate we'll continue to duplicate and the results are clearly visible in our results.
Our next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael of Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> First off I was wondering can you tell us what FX assumptions you're using in your 2012 guidance.
I know it's a much bigger component now to the overall business than it was previous to Global Crossing.
And then my second question I was wondering what your comfort level is on additional M&amp;A perhaps in the second half of 2012 and whether or not we would potentially see you look to get involved.
If you're just going to take a clear approach and say no we're not interested in acquisitions for x amount of time until we get further along with Global Crossing.
Just a little bit of color on that will be helpful as well.
All right.
Let me take the FX question.
So just as a give a backdrop before we get to specific assumptions or anything like that for the expected guidance just keep in mind a couple of things.
One predominantly our revenue continues to be denominated in U.S.
dollars.
So from a revenue by currency perspective close to 80% of our revenue base is in dollars.
The next exposure is bond sterling; it's about 10%.
But at the EBITDA line since our regional headquarters in EMEA is in London from an EBITDA perspective you're effectively hedged on the bond.
The next one is euro.
Our euro-denominated revenues are probably about 5% of the revenue base.
So some exposure there but obviously more limited.
And the next one is Brazil which is about roughly 4% of the revenue base.
And then after that it drops pretty rapidly.
Argentina is the next since [ph] about 1% we're hedged there too since our Latin America headquarters are in Argentina.
So really the only exposures we have of note is from an unhedged perspective if you like the EBITDA line is euros and the Brazilian real.
But as I indicated in some it's less than 10%.
So I don't think the guidance is that sensitive to the EBITDA guidance.
It's not sensitive the currency rates.
Obviously if we had big movements and the dollar appreciated a lot we might have something to talk about.
But I think within small movements we're in fact in a good place.
With respect to global M&amp;A and our appetite and what's in the market I'm going to ask our Vice Chairman Buddy Miller.
I said earlier repeat Buddy handles Strategy and Corporate Development our business development M&amp;A.
So Buddy? As we've said from the time we've announced this Global Crossing merger our top priority is going to be making sure we get this integration done right.
We learned some measures the hard way in the past and so we're very very focused on making sure we get through this integration right and that we don't distract ourselves from that task.
As you know M&amp;A transactions take a long time to gestate.
And there are parts of the world where we don't have a lot of integration work going on.
And just by the nature of the combined company we're getting a lot more inbound calls than we used to and we of course have typically made a lot of outbound calls.
So our level of interest both by us and by others in us is high.
And so we'll continue to have discussions that are forward-looking not without a particular closing date in mind but just for industry-shaping kinds of discussions we've always had those continue to have those.
It's going to be a judgment call on our part when we're close enough to on the one hand finishing the integration tasks we've set for ourselves.
And on the other hand how long we think it would take before we could close the transaction and it would pose any meaningful load on the people we're looking to for the integration.
So it's a combination of a lot of factors that will determine when we can do anything what part of the world it's in whether we have integration activity.
And then beyond that when we get to a point on integration activity we can continue to -- that we could resume looking at any kind of an acquisition.
I don't want to try to put any kind of prediction on the timescale on that.
We will be very cautious.
As just said in the start our first priority is making sure we get the integration done right.
You can be certain; we're going to make sure of that.
But you can also be sure we'll maintain our typical interest in M&amp;A.
And as I said the interest level in us is higher and we're happy to see that.
That answers your question Colby? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that's perfect.
I think we're closing in on the end of the call.
We have time for one more question I think.
Our last question comes from the line of Romeo Reyes Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on the integration for Jeff.
We talked a couple of quarters ago about kind of the all the different components.
In the last 3 months have you seen anything that would make it -- make the transition or rather the integration more or less difficult or is it about just what you expected? And then a quick question for Sunit.
You have a fair amount of bank that come in due in 2014 Sunit that's relatively low cost.
Are you looking at all with the favorable market environment and the momentum that you have with Global Crossing? Are you looking at all to potentially push that out at some point in 2012? So Romeo first for the integration question.
There are no real transition or integration surprises.
If there -- it isn't exactly a surprise but one of the things that I've found that I'm really pleased about is the quality of the Global Crossing team and the ability of the 2 teams to come together as one.
That is a big differentiation for us and our ability to go to market our ability to represent the company going forward with customers to get the customers excited about the opportunities of the new company and that's been tremendous.
So we're very pleased with that.
We think that overall that makes transition and integration much more successful.
You've heard us talk that the primary thing we need to do is to continue to maintain the customer experience and drive growth getting our sales team combined as one organization with a common focus and a common set of products to go to the worldwide geography that we sell to is pretty critical.
There are no negative surprises about networks or any of that.
It's pretty much as we expected.
But we're really very pleased about the opportunity and have been that way since April when we announced the transaction.
And then Romeo on your question on the term loan yes we have $1.4 billion coming due on that term loan in 2014 we have some time.
And as we've always said we maintain to keep in close eye on the marketplace balancing that with our current profile and the improvement we continue to expect in our current profile.
From a debt-to-EBITDA perspective our liquidity position currently is quite comfortable.
But as always we continue to look at the market and be opportunistic and try to move ahead of when maturities come to you.
So we'll continue to monitor that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One quick question Sunit on the guidance if you don't mind.
How much of the integration expense do you have baked in 2012 EBITDA? It seems like for -- the number that we have on -- the pro forma combined number it was around $86 million or so of the integration expense.
What's the comparable number for 2012? Well I mean as we said in our remarks we think that the integration expense in 2012 will be comparable to 2011.
So without getting too specific obviously we'll be reporting on our integration expenses every quarter that we report.
It's tough to be too precise based on the timing of [indiscernible].
But generally it will be in the same vicinity or comparable as I said to what we saw in 2011.
Obviously the mix changes a little in 2011.
We had a higher mix of transaction expenses so we'll have much less of that since the transaction is done in 2012.
But we'll continue to have expenses mostly in the area of severance retention and then other integration expenses.
As we consolidate various platforms together we'll have some integration expenses so comparable to last year.
Okay I'd sum it up this way.
I think we have the great products.
We're clearly investing in more and more experienced salespeople and you heard a fair amount of discussion about increasing our addressable market.
You put those 3 together.
You've seen the results over the last 6 or 8 quarters and we look forward to reporting those same kind of improvements over the next 6 or 8 quarters.
Thank you very much.
That ends the call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Communications First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday May 3 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Fran.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Crowe Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Storey President and Chief Operating Officer; Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and our Vice Chairman Buddy Miller.
Before we get started as a reminder our press release and the presentation slides that accompany this call as well as our detailed supplemental schedules are all available in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 1Q '12 earnings presentation which says that the information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Finally please note that on today's call and in the earnings presentation we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available on the press release which is posted on our website at www.level3.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thank you Valerie.
As is our normal practice in our prepared remarks this morning our CFO Sunit Patel will discuss financial results for the quarter and the outlook for 2012.
Our Chief Operating Officer Jeff Storey will discuss operational matters including segment results provide an update and status of integration planning and implementation and some general remarks about the market and the industry.
I'll provide some summary comments then we'll open it up for questions and answers.
Sunit? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
I'll start with Slide 3 on the external earnings presentation with the summary of the quarter.
Overall Core Network Services revenue grew 1.2% sequentially on a constant-currency basis strengthening from the 0.8% growth we saw in the fourth quarter.
We continue to make progress on achieving synergies as we integrate the Global Crossing acquisition.
Adjusted EBITDA grew nicely during the quarter.
We also made significant progress this quarter in achieving capital expenditure synergies.
Turning to the detailed results for the first quarter 2012 on Slide 4.
We are pleased to see the 1.2% sequential Core Network Services revenue growth on a constant-currency basis especially since the first quarter is genuinely a seasonally weaker quarter.
This growth was primarily a result of strong gains from our enterprise customers in North America and Latin America.
We saw growth from large enterprise and midmarket customers during the quarter.
On a constant-currency basis enterprise CNS revenues grew 3% sequentially outpacing the decline in wholesale revenues.
On a regional basis North American CNS revenues grew 2% sequentially with 4% sequential growth from enterprise and a 2% sequential decline from wholesale.
In EMEA our sequential CNS revenue performance improved on a constant-currency basis declining 0.8% sequentially compared to a 2% sequential decline in the fourth quarter.
On a constant-currency basis wholesale and enterprise CNS revenues were flat sequentially.
U.K.
government CNS revenues declined by 4% on a constant-currency basis as expected.
Our sales orders in EMEA improved nicely over the course of the first quarter and we believe the business has stabilized.
We expect to see stronger CNS revenue growth performance in EMEA over the balance -- for the balance of the year.
CNS revenues for the Latin America region grew sequentially at 2% on a constant-currency basis driven by strong growth in the enterprise business of 3%.
As is typical in Latin America in the first quarter wholesale CNS revenues declined 3% sequentially on a constant currency basis.
Across the business our CDN revenue grew 8% sequentially and is about 2% of our CNS revenues.
Wholesale voice and other revenue was $204 million this quarter compared to $211 million in the fourth quarter.
As we are continuing to manage our combined wholesale voice platform for margin growth we expect continued volatility in Wholesale Voice Services revenue going forward.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the first quarter of 2012 Level 3 CNS revenue churn remained stable at approximately 1.3%.
Turning to Slide 5.
We saw improvement this quarter in gross margin at 58.6% compared to 58.2% in the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily as a result of growth in high incremental margin Core Network Services revenue network optimization and synergy savings.
SG&amp;A expense was $602 million in the first quarter 2012 compared to $648 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
During the first quarter we incurred seasonally higher payroll taxes.
Included in SG&amp;A were $15 million and $62 million in integration and transaction costs in the first quarter of 2012 and fourth quarter of 2011 respectively.
On Slide 6 we saw adjusted EBITDA increase to $327 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $271 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
This was a result of both the growth in our high-margin CNS revenues as well as the progress we made in realizing synergies associated with the Global Crossing acquisition.
We remain confident in our goal of achieving the $300 million of run rate EBITDA synergies we expect for the Global Crossing acquisition.
During the quarter we achieved an additional $43 million in annualized run rate EBITDA synergies for a total of approximately $80 million of annualized synergies since the acquisition closed.
This is made up of $25 million in network expense and $55 million of operating expense savings.
As a reminder as of the fourth quarter of 2011 we had achieved $37 million in savings which was made up of $10 million in network expense savings and $27 million of operating expense synergies on an annualized basis.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures were $138 million in the first quarter about 9% of revenue.
We made great progress on recognizing CapEx synergies this quarter achieving better commercial terms from our suppliers that were negotiated late last year and by avoiding some capital spending due to the combination of the 2 companies.
We expect capital expenditures to increase over the course of the year.
Turning to Slide 7.
Free cash flow was negative $213 million during the first quarter 2012 about as expected and comparable to the $207 million in the first quarter of last year on a pro forma basis.
As I mentioned on the fourth quarter call we typically see a higher use of cash in the first quarter driven by working capital uses due to annual bonus payments prepayments and maintenance contracts and property and payroll tax payments.
Also we saw an increase in receivables and as expected a decrease in our payables.
In addition we had $66 million in higher sequential cash interest expense this quarter due to the timing of high-interest payments in the first and third quarters of each year.
Turning to Slide 8.
The first quarter was active from a liability management perspective.
We had cash on hand of $748 million as of March 31 2012 with total debt of approximately $8.5 billion.
Our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is at 5.9x and we continue to target a range of 3x to 5x.
We feel good about our improving credit profile maturity schedule and liquidity position and we will continue to be opportunistic in managing our debt maturities.
Turning to Slide 9.
We are reiterating our outlook for 2012.
We continue to expect Core Network Services revenue to grow sequentially for the remainder of the year.
We remain confident in our expectations for 20% to 25% EBITDA growth for the full year 2012 from the starting point of $1.216 billion of pro forma adjusted EBITDA for 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA for both 2011 and 2012 include integration and transaction costs.
As a result Capital Markets activities we are updating interest expense guidance and now expect GAAP interest expense of approximately $730 million and net cash interest expense of approximately $675 million for the full year 2012.
We continue to expect capital expenditures of approximately 12% of revenue for the full year 2012.
In the aggregate for the remaining 3 quarters of 2012 we expect free cash flow to be positive.
Also for the full year 2012 depreciation and amortization is expected to be approximately $780 million.
In summary we are making good progress on integration.
We remain focused on growing our revenues and achieving cost savings while maintaining customer experience.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit and good morning everyone.
To begin I'd like to walk you through a few general comments on the quarter.
First of all while the first quarter is typically weak for our wholesale business our overall growth in the quarter reflects our ongoing move toward enterprise customers.
Second we continue to make progress on integration.
The efforts to physically interconnect the networks rationalize our product roadmap and achieve the network expense operating expense and capital synergies are all progressing well.
And third we continue to hear from our customers that they remain pleased with the level of service we provide.
Service delivery service management billing and other areas that are key to the customer experience continue to perform as expected.
As an administrative point I'll make a number of comparisons to prior quarters.
Unless stated otherwise all comparisons are on a constant-currency basis.
Turning to the details for the quarter.
Our Core Network Services revenue for the company grew more than 1% sequentially and as I said on a constant-currency basis.
As Sunit mentioned we continue to see strong growth from our Enterprise business with 3% sequential growth and 11% year-over-year growth.
Globally wholesale again which is seasonally weaker in the first quarter was down 2% sequentially.
In general we expect enterprise to grow faster than wholesale in the coming quarters.
Our increasing focus on enterprise customers is working and we see success in expanding our relationships with existing customers as well as our ability to attract and acquire new customers.
Following a sales trend that we've seen in the past couple of years sales were slow in January and February but picked up through the quarter ending with a strong March.
Moving to the results for North America.
Core Network Services revenue from enterprises grew nicely this quarter 4% sequentially and 12% year-over-year.
This growth came primarily from our large enterprise and midmarket customers.
In the government channel which is included in our enterprise revenues we saw a decline sequentially.
However as a result of the steady progress we've made in selling to this market the year-over-year government revenue grew significantly at more than 20%.
In EMEA the overall sequential performance improved this quarter and we are well positioned to grow in the region.
I'll discuss the specific results for EMEA in the context of 3 focus areas: wholesale enterprise customers and the U.K.
government business.
Wholesale CNS revenues were flat sequentially.
In general results were in line with our expectation for the quarter.
Enterprise revenue excluding the U.K.
government was also flat quarter-over-quarter.
As we discussed on our fourth quarter call we've been adding enterprise salespeople over the past year and increasing our enterprise focus in EMEA but it is still early in the process.
We remain confident about the enterprise opportunity across the EMEA region and our ability to capture market share although we are not yet pleased with the results.
I believe we're doing the right things and are applying the lessons we've learned in North America and Latin America the lessons that have allowed us to consistently grow our enterprise businesses in those regions over the past couple of years.
As expected U.K.
government revenues declined in the quarter by a little less than 4%.
In the U.K.
we have a number of legacy government contracts.
As previously announced we expect revenue declines from these contracts.
Our focus is to renew as many of the contracts as possible while expanding our business with other governmental departments and agencies.
We believe we have a very good value proposition for this customer group and have some excellent network and set of products and are well positioned to win.
Moving to Latin America we saw overall growth in the region with strong growth in the enterprise business about 3% sequentially and 17% year-over-year.
Similar to North America CNS revenues from the wholesale channel had a seasonal decline of 3% sequentially.
We are very pleased with the Latin American business.
We have an excellent team and are investing to expand our reach and capabilities within the region.
Overall we continue to see very positive reaction from our customers' base on the Level 3 value proposition with our secure local-to-global network capabilities and our broad product portfolio.
During the earnings call shortly after the acquisition closed I was asked whether we saw signs from customers of both companies disconnecting because of concerns over diversity.
Since diversity is a major concern for customers we have paid close attention to this issue and so far this has not been a problem.
We will continue to work closely with customers to ensure we address their diversity concerns.
In many cases the extensive network assets we've acquired over the years allow us to fully address their diversity requirements.
Turning to results by product group we changed our product family reporting slightly this quarter and the following comparisons for products are on an as-reported basis.
We're separately reporting our data center and colocation revenues which grew 2% sequentially.
Level 3 is a multi-tenant data center provider operating more than 300 data center and colocation sites in North America EMEA and Latin America with annualized revenue exceeding $500 million.
We'll continue to focus on the data center business and are investing when appropriate.
Transport and fiber declined slightly in the quarter with most of the decline associated with our having reclassified a single contract from transport to IP VPN.
We saw strong growth in our IP and data services business which grew 3% sequentially.
Our CNS voice services also grew this quarter up 1% sequentially primarily as the result of strong growth in collaboration services offset slightly by declines in intercarrier compensation revenues.
Turning to pricing.
We've seen little change in the competitive environment from the last several quarters.
We continue to see favorable pricing environment for data center networking services and enterprise voice services.
We've seen aggressive pricing continued for high-speed IP CDN and point-to-point Wavelength services.
In general pricing is not a major factor in the growth opportunities we see for the business.
Updating on integration.
As I mentioned earlier we feel good about the progress we've made this quarter.
We established our product roadmap for 2012 and continue to launch services across our network footprint based on that roadmap.
As an example we now offer CDN services in Latin America.
We have go-to-market plans across the company and are actively targeting key verticals within the enterprise business with our expanded product portfolio and our global network.
We've also made additional progress interconnecting our networks and optimizing the underlying cost of providing services.
From a sales perspective we've launched our global account management initiative to better address and manage the need of our largest multinational customers who buy services in multiple regions.
We will continue to align our -- and grow our sales teams to cover the market opportunities we see.
Operationally we are focused on our service delivery and installation capabilities and are keeping up with the orders effectively.
The result with our customers confirm this our customer satisfaction continue to improve quarter-over-quarter.
As I mentioned our customers are pleased with our approach to the transition and believe we offer a superior capability to serve their global wireline needs.
The customer experience will remain the top priority in our integration decisions as we strive to be the best in the industry in solving our customers' networking challenges.
In summary we feel great about our position in the industry.
We believe demand is strong and we are highly focused on executing with a disciplined consistent approach over the coming quarters.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Jim.
Thanks Jeff.
Jeff and Sunit and I are on the road quite often talking with investors and we're often asked what aspect of our business would we stress as we speak to them.
While there's a number of candidate answers at or near the top of the list is both the magnitude of our operating leverage and just as importantly the implications of our incremental margins for other aspects of our business.
Using figures included in today's press release pro forma for the Global acquisition and excluding integration expense for the period of first quarter 2011 to first quarter 2012 our incremental gross margins simply math that can be done based on delta revenue and delta gross margin was 137% and our incremental adjusted EBITDA margin for that period was 116%.
Simply put over that period for each incremental dollar of revenue we generated $1.37 of gross margin and $1.16 of adjusted EBITDA.
These rather remarkable incremental margins are the result of several factors some obviously less structurally significant than others.
For instance as Sunit discussed we saw a decrease in 30% incremental gross margin wholesale voice and an increase in our 80% margin incremental CNS revenue.
That mathematically results in an improving higher-than-normal gross and EBITDA margin.
But wholesale voice is volatile and we could very well see that grow in which case that outcome would reverse.
However these more transient factors are not the real major contributors to the kind of great operating leverage we have.
More fundamentally our operating leverage is a direct result of our ability to add high incremental margin CNS revenue while at the same time significantly lowering our overall network and operating expense.
In effect the overall cost of our factory is decreasing both because of synergies from acquisitions and processing system improvements more rapidly than the incremental cost associated with each new dollar that we sell.
This results directly from the size of our plant that is $37 billion of original cost in our global network and our improving sales and delivery processing systems coupled with the kind of synergies that Sunit mentioned associated with Global.
Keep in mind that the results I just described are for the period first quarter of '11 through first quarter of '12 a period during which cost synergies for the Global transaction were just beginning just simply a way of saying there's a great deal of efficiency that we can gain over time associated with our very large fixed plan.
And importantly please note that our capital intensity both historical and forecast has remained steady at about 12% of revenue.
While clearly we cannot grow adjusted EBITDA faster than revenue over the long term I do believe we can expect incremental margins to be above our steady-state target of 80% incremental gross margins and 60% incremental adjusted EBITDA margins for some significant period of time and our confidence that we can maintain our steady-state goals is very high over the long term.
We further believe we're well positioned because of this kind of operating leverage for significant adjusted EBITDA operating and free cash flow and earnings growth over the coming quarters.
Additionally these results shed some significant light on a perennial question we get.
That is is industry pricing healthy? Jeff has touched on this question I think in every quarterly call since he joined us.
But taking a look specifically at the numbers I just provided it's simply hard to imagine a set of industry conditions under which our gross  EBITDA and cash flow margins expand capital intensity remains steady and pricing is anything other than healthy.
Finally I would note what both Sunit and Jeff have stressed.
We are significantly improving our operating efficiency and that the results are visible in our margins while at the same time improving our customer experience by adding customer-facing resources and emphasizing and focusing on improving business processes and systems.
Operator this ends our prepared remarks.
Would you describe the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] Our first question from the line of Ana Goshko with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> The first question is probably both for Jeff and Sunit.
It's on the pacing of the cost saves that you're achieving.
I know -- in the past you've said that you expected $200 million of the cost saves to be achieved in the first 6 quarters.
And so initially I think a lot of us on the analyst side were straight-lining the pace of that over the 6 quarters but you seem to be ahead of it.
So I wanted know on how you feel that the cost saves will be rolling in over the rest of the year.
Yes.
I think we're still on pace for that $200 million that we said would happen in 6 quarters.
We'd hit the $200 million annualized run rate 6 quarters after closing.
I think we're still on pace with that Ana.
Yes I'd add -- this is Jim.
I'd add that -- something Jeff I think has stressed a number of times.
We having learned many lessons in integration are not setting time-based milestones for achieving those synergies.
They're based on our customer experience and other metrics that are milestone based.
We admittedly at the time of the announcement said we were a bit conservative in order to assure that the customer experience remained at the very top of the list.
If we're able to maintain that kind of customer experience and still achieve synergies a bit earlier that's a fine outcome.
But we're not going to confuse those 2 goals.
The first and foremost goal is customer experience.
Next...
Research Division</strong> And then if I can...
Sure.
Go ahead Ana.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I'm just squeezing the second question.
Are there any headwinds that you're facing that were unanticipated or maybe that we should be aware of that have offset some of the benefits of the merger? And 2 examples are: One I know there are some concern that some of your customers who were both Global and Level 3 customers may have required more redundancy.
Have you found any kind of sales headwinds on that side? Or two on the operating side are there any unanticipated costs or need for investment that you hadn't anticipated before you closed the merger and got inside? Jeff you want to take both of those? Sure.
We're a large global complicated business.
There are always headwinds that we didn't anticipate but there are tailwinds that we didn't anticipate either.
And in general the headwinds and the tailwinds offset especially the ones that we didn't expect.
And so there's nothing that jumps out to me that says we have particular headwinds on the cost side or on the revenue side.
With respect to the customers and redundancy as I mentioned in the prepared remarks that's an area that we have focused on and we are making sure that we pay attention to.
Sunit mentioned that our churn is stable.
That's an indicator of whether our customers are seeing problems with us.
But we actually find that our opportunity our ability to satisfy the redundancy is better by having more control over their network.
We're a wholesale provider to many carriers in the industry.
If a customer buys from somebody the carrier that they buy from may very well be buying it from us.
And there's no way for us to guarantee the redundancy without fully knowing what the customer's needs are.
And so what we've done is we sat down with our customers and said let's talk about your redundancy and how do we really use our assets to address that.
And so far it's not been a problem that we haven't been able to overcome.
I might add -- just let me add one other thing Ana the point that Jeff made in his comment that I want underlined.
The specifics of that concern really were in the IP and data center services arena.
That's the place you would see this issue arise.
That particular business grew 3% sequentially.
A very healthy growth rate on a very large base.
By many measures we're the largest provider of Internet service in the world and we continue to see above-average growth in that area.
So certainly that coupled with the churn metric would indicate that's not an issue.
Our next question from the line of Chris Larsen from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
First Europe Verizon indicated on its call that they'd seen some softness in the enterprise market.
I'm wondering if you're seeing any of the similar weaknesses.
And then also I wonder if you could just talk about the competitive dynamics here in the U.S.
There's been a lot of consolidation and are you seeing anything now that you're sort of seemed to be bringing the Global Crossing assets together? Any advantages you're being able to take care of or any changes in the competitive dynamics here? Yes.
With respect to your kind of macro question about Europe I think the numbers sort of speak for themselves.
We see an opportunity to grow enterprise at the kind of rates we are globally.
It's in many ways the same customer base.
And as we've said many times macroeconomic headwinds are often an opportunity for the alternative provider.
Depending on the country and the market we have single-digit percentages of almost every addressable market for our services.
When companies start to sharpen the pencil and look to save costs that opens the door for us.
Now we have to offer them good value but we think we do.
So we just haven't seen that as an issue.
Obviously the U.K.
government which we've explained at a fair -- to a fair extent is suffering from budget issues but we knew that we expected it and we haven't seen anything unexpected.
With respect to overall opportunities created by Global Crossing I think if anything we believe they're greater than we were we thought at the start.
Our ability to meet customers' needs enterprise customers broadly defined simply better today we think is industry-leading.
We're allocating $800 million roughly of capital every year.
We're willing to put that capital in the ground for the right kinds of opportunities.
Customers tell us over and over and over again that they're looking for the kind of reliability safety received solid levels of service they get from the 2 incumbents AT&amp;T and Verizon but want it from a company that's easy to do business with and is actually leaning forward into the market aggressively investing.
It's no big surprise AT&amp;T and Verizon.
But just as an anecdotal note I asked some folks to count the number of questions AT&amp;T and Verizon were asked on their 2 conference calls.
And as you'd expect the vast majority of the calls have nothing to do with the wireline business.
They're all about the wireless business.
That means there's a vacuum for someone like Level 3.
And we really like that dynamic.
Our next question is from the line of Colby Synesael from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to talk about bookings.
I think you mentioned that bookings were weak in January and February and then had improved in March.
I was wondering if you can give us any color on what you saw in April and maybe do that by geographic segment if possible.
And then the other question had to do with Vodafone's announcement to acquire cable and wireless Vodafone being a mobile provider there.
I'm not sure if Global Crossing was doing any of the backhaul for them or anything like that but just generally what you think the impact of that acquisition could be on your business.
Yes I'll take the second question while Jeff is thinking about -- Jeff or Sunit is thinking about the first.
We've seen the same story played out many times in many locations.
To be specific I don't think we have anything material with cable and wireless and Vodafone to speak of in terms of revenues.
But we always point out that industry consolidation which has been ongoing now since about '05 '06 is a positive for the industry and we would include this transaction in that statement.
With respect to bookings one of the trends that we've seen is January and February in the last few years have been light and then the rest of the year picks up from there.
March it was a very good month for us in sales.
And so it's following that trend that we've seen before.
With respect to April it's still a little bit early for me to be commenting on it but we think sales were good in April as well.
Our next question from the line of Donna Jaegers from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
For Sunit on accounts receivable Global Crossing was notorious for slow paying and because of that they ended up having to pay higher access rates for last-mile access.
Has that been resolved yet in the first quarter? Well so in the first quarter as I mentioned we did see increase in accounts receivable from customers.
To your question I think you're referring to accounts payable with vendors and access suppliers and we also saw a decrease in that as expected.
I think we mentioned we're going to start paying suppliers more quickly.
So if you look at the balance sheet in the supplemental disclosure we had about a $33 million decrease in accounts payable.
And we do think that as we keep improving that and given the combined scale of both companies we should be able to over time squeeze better commercial accounts from our suppliers including access suppliers.
By the way that question Donna and Sunit's answer one of the keys to the kind of operating leverage that I talked about in my remarks that is a very large line item $2.5 billion of expense.
And as Sunit says there's all sorts of opportunities to improve that very large fixed expenditure.
That in no small part is what occurred in 2011 for Level 3 standalone prior to the global transaction.
And the combined companies have a much larger opportunity to get far more efficiency.
Going one layer below this that very large expenditure is really composed of 2 pieces.
Our tail circuits which are pretty sensitive to a direct sale when you sell something in our case 4 circuits are on-net one is off-net on average that's how we have 80% gross margins.
Think of that as a variable cost.
But there's a very large fixed plant.
All of the connections between central offices interoffice connections if you would so-called entrance facilities.
And every year we continue to see big opportunities to reduce that expenditure and that isn't going to go away in a quarter or 2.
You've touched on one of the possibilities and there are many many others to continue to groom and improve the efficiency of that $2.5 billion expenditure.
Research Division</strong> If I can follow up with one more quick one.
On wholesale can you give us a little more color and any sort of traffic growth statistics? Wholesale you mean the wholesale -- CNS wholesale? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Well the CNS wholesale business Donna touches on all our products all right from transport and infrastructure data center everything.
So I think generally speaking the first quarter in the wholesale -- most of our wholesale customers have fiscal year ends that end in December so we typically do see people coming in with grooming activity in the first quarter as everyone's trying to hit their cost savings budget.
So that's not unusual.
I think the traffic growth...
Yes with respect to traffic growth I'd just simply point to the Cisco Visual Networking Index.
I mean we're a big enough sample size of the industry so what you would read in the Cisco Visual Networking Index would reflect our experience.
We have our own internal numbers but we haven't published them and we're pretty big fans of that particular index.
So Cisco's done a fine job segmenting the market and providing various growth rates.
We see the broadband to the home as a major driver of growth.
We don't see it directly but indirectly.
With respect to enterprise the bit rate growth is less maybe 20% 25% but we're taking share.
And clearly the longer-term big potential is wireless broadband which is growing according to that index at about 100% a year but on a pretty small base of 2% or 3% of the total.
So -- and I don't think we have any fundamental disagreements with that view of the world.
Our next question from the line of Michael Funk from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just to go back and touch on the earlier question around the cost savings.
As noted you had guided for about 2/3 of the run rate after 18 months.
So if we can just think about the network and operating components there.
Is there a reason to believe we're going to see a slowing of the operating synergies and maybe a pickup in the network side? Or how are those going to be I guess shaped throughout the year just to help us with that? And then maybe some more commentary around the capital spending during the quarter and then expectations what types of projects you might be working on the last 3 quarters of the year that are going to be driving that higher.
So Jeff you want to take the first question instead of the second? Yes.
Michael you heard me say this and you heard Jim say it I'm going to repeat it because I want you to realize just how much our customer experience really drives our integration planning.
Whether we accelerate network or whether we accelerate operating expenses and the timing of those savings is going to be driven by our ability to satisfy our customers and by our ability to stay focused on what our customers need.
So network expenses we will continue to groom.
We will continue to look at ways to cut the costs that Jim was discussing.
But it involves contacting our customers and touching their network and so we're going to be very careful about doing that with being respectful of their network and their needs in their business.
When it comes to operating expense savings we are not following a timeline.
We are following milestones.
If we accomplish certain things then we will look at additional operating expense savings.
If we don't accomplish these things then we'll wait.
Right now there's nothing that tells me we're going to do anything different than what we've been saying that we'll accomplish 2/3 of our projected synergies.
The synergy number is still right and we'll help accomplish 2/3 of that over the first 18 months.
Yes and as we say about 55% of that will be from SG&amp;A and 45% from net savings.
So these savings are a little lumpier Michael.
So it's tough to give you quarter-by-quarter trajectory but I think our  confidence of hitting it at 200 6 quarters out from last October is still very strong.
You want to talk about CapEx allocations? Yes CapEx.
As I pointed out we got an early start on the CapEx the synergies.
Obviously we have CapEx integration cost too.
But I think that between all the planning we did prior to closing and then negotiations with suppliers yielded good benefits.
We had about generally overall on most of the CapEx items 5% to 10% savings on average combined with some weighted capital.
So we should be able to generally hit most of our CapEx synergies the first 2 3 quarters of this year.
So certainly you're seeing that benefit in the CapEx number for the first quarter.
In terms of expansions as Jim pointed out at the beginning we have quite a number of expansion initiatives under way.
We're expanding data center capacity in Latin America.
We're adding quite a few more buildings over the course of this year in the U.S.
in EMEA and also more recently Latin America is in planning stages.
We are spending money to add capacity on our subsea routes both connecting to Latin America and across the Atlantic.
So a number of different opportunities and the follow through on incremental capital expenditures more to save money on circuit expenses and to drive more revenue growth especially in the enterprise side.
Our next question from the line of Lisa Lam with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just -- can you provide an update for the integration costs over the full year? I noticed that $15 million this quarter seems a little low relative to what you were guiding towards on the last call.
I mean I think we said that the integration costs this year would be comparable to sort of what we had last year.
And obviously the fourth quarter had some transaction costs too.
And I think that we should see integration costs in general about where we are but as Jeff and Jim pointed out many these milestone driven so tough to give you quarter-by-quarter but I think we continue to feel they will be comparable to what we incurred last year.
Our next question from the line of Alex Clark [ph] from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes Frank Louthan actually.
Can you give us an update on the South American assets and what sort of gross you see out of that region? And then I apologize if you covered this earlier but could you give us a sense of where the enterprise sales force is from the integration standpoint? Global Crossing's sale seems fully integrated.
How should we think about that over the next year or so? Latin America.
Latin America the only thing I would I say is look they're growing at double-digit growth rates.
We think it's a great market generally faster growing economies early stage of maturity from Internet broadband penetration perspective.
And we think we'll continue to invest aggressively there.
And Buddy Miller who's here with me and I we're in Latin America last week so I will have him make some extra comments on what we see in Latin America.
Yes the opportunity down there is extremely large for us to expand the capillarity of our network in the ways we've been describing in the U.S.
for a long time.
So really the factor there is just getting our organization there prepared to do that in a safe and steady way.
And Sunit and I actually were down there last week talking with the team about that and they're gearing up to do it.
I don't have any specific predictions on that other than to say the opportunity is large.
And I think we've -- as a practical matter we can grow it as fast as organizationally we can prepare to do it.
That question and the answers you heard I think can be generalized and has something to do with the comment that we continuously make that is the customer experience has to be central.
That's a reflection of the fact that we don't think we're limited by addressable market.
As we've said quite often we simply look at the locations within a distance of our network that allow us to turn up service in a market-competitive way.
We have an extremely large addressable market.
Now we can say that same thing about Latin America and in the U.K.
because of the global transaction.
We have the same situation.
So this boils down to execution and ensuring that we satisfy our customers because we think the top line growth rate is a direct reflection of our ability to meet our customer's needs.
And with the kind of operating leverage we have it isn't a choice about what you want.
The top line dominates any value creation.
We don't lack for margins and margin expansion.
So that's the reason we keep emphasizing customer experience.
It's a direct lever on financial performance.
Okay that's...
He asked a question on sales force -- Frank you also had a question on sales force and our integration there.
We have one sales team we have one sales management we've gone through and assigned our customers across that sales team we've aligned our compensation we've created the global account management initiative that I discussed but your phrase "are they fully integrated " is not a phrase I use.
We have everything in place and it's up to us to execute.
We will continue to execute we'll continue to train and develop our salespeople as we try to launch products over different geographies and really bring our full product portfolio to bear across the entire geographies that we serve.
We're making progress in all of those things and feel that we're progressing as we should be.
Operator that ends the call.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation and kindly ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Communications Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday July 25 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin ma'am.
Thank you Fran.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Crowe Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Storey President and Chief Operating Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started as a reminder our press release and the presentation slides that accompany this call as well as our detailed supplemental schedules are all available in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 2Q '12 earnings presentation which says that information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Finally please note that on today's call and in the earnings presentation we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available in the press release which is posted on our website at www.level3.com.
I will now turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Valerie.
In our prepared remarks Sunit Patel will discuss financial results for the quarter and the outlook for the balance of the year.
Jeff Storey will discuss operational matters including segment results provide an update on the status of integration planning and implementation.
And I'll provide a short summary and we'll open it up for questions.
Sunit? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin with some of the highlights for the quarter which can be found on Slide 3 of our presentation.
Overall Core Network Services revenue grew 0.7% sequentially on a constant currency basis with our enterprise business continuing to be a strong growth driver.
Adjusted EBITDA increased to $353 million.
We are on track to achieve our EBITDA guidance for 2012 and we continue to make progress this quarter in achieving EBITDA synergies.
Turning to the detailed results for the second quarter 2012 on Slide 4.
Core Network Services grew 0.7% sequentially on a constant currency basis.
This growth was primarily driven by our enterprise customers in all regions.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue the company's consolidated CNS revenue grew 1.2% and enterprise CNS grew 2.1% on a constant currency basis.
On a year-over-year basis CNS revenues grew 3.7% adjusting for constant currency.
Keep in mind in the second quarter 2011 Global Crossing had $9 million in termination revenue which if excluded would improve our year-over-year revenue performance.
On another positive note our consolidated CNS sales orders that is signed contracts for services grew 17% in the second quarter over the first quarter.
The second quarter marked a record quarter for sales orders for the combined company.
On a regional basis North American CNS revenue grew 1.1% sequentially on a constant currency basis primarily from strong sequential growth of 1.8% from our enterprise customers.
Wholesale was roughly flat compared to the first quarter.
In EMEA our sequential CNS revenue declined 2.3% on a constant currency basis primarily driven by an expected decline in the U.K.
government revenue.
As we have previously indicated we expect our U.K.
government revenue to decline this year.
On a constant currency basis wholesale CNS revenues declined 1.1% while enterprise CNS revenues improved 2.5% sequentially.
Excluding the U.K.
government business EMEA CNS revenue grew 0.6%.
Our sales order in the EMEA enterprise business improved nicely for the second quarter and although EMEA is still in a state of transition we expect to see stronger performance for the balance of the year.
CNS revenue for Latin American region grew sequentially at 2.3% on a constant currency basis driven by strong growth in the enterprise business of 2.9%.
Also voice services and other revenues was $200 million this quarter compared to $204 million in the first quarter.
We continue to expect volatility in wholesale voice services revenue going forward as we manage our combined wholesale voice platform for margin growth.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the second quarter of 2012 we experienced a slight uptick in CNS revenue churn from 1.3% to approximately 1.6% in the second quarter.
The increase in disconnects is primarily attributable to a couple of legacy large Global Crossing customers the majority of which are the U.K.
government customers I mentioned earlier.
Turning to Slide 5.
We again saw improvement this quarter in gross margin at 59.1% compared to 58.6% in the first quarter of 2012 primarily as a result of an increase in our higher-margin CNS services a decrease in our wholesale voice services revenue and attainment of additional network expense synergies.
SG&amp;A expense was $585 million in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $602 million in the first quarter of 2012.
These SG&amp;A figures exclude stock-based compensation expense.
Included in SG&amp;A were $17 million and $15 million in integration costs in the second quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2012 respectively.
On Slide 6.
Adjusted EBITDA increased to $353 million in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $327 million in the first quarter of 2012.
This increase was driven by an increase in our high-margin CNS services as well as continued progress in realizing synergies associated with the Global Crossing acquisition.
We remain confident in our goal of achieving the $300 million of run rate EBITDA synergies we expect for the Global Crossing acquisition.
During the quarter we achieved an additional $45 million in run rate EBITDA synergies for a total of approximately $125 million of annualized synergies since the acquisition closed last October.
This is made up of about $50 million in network expense and $75 million of operating expense savings.
As a reminder as of the first quarter of 2012 we have achieved $25 million in network expense and $55 million of operating expense synergies on an annualized basis.
Exiting the second quarter we have also largely achieved our expected $40 million in annualized capital expenditures synergies.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures were $180 million in the second quarter compared to $138 million in the first quarter of 2012 representing approximately 11% of second quarter revenue.
Turning to Slide 7.
Free cash flow was positive $3 million during the second quarter 2012 compared to negative $213 million for the first quarter of 2012.
The improvement in free cash flow was driven by lower net cash interest expense.
Please keep in mind for the third quarter we will see an increase of approximately $120 million in cash interest expense due to the timing of higher interest payments in the first and third quarters each year.
Additionally we continue to reduce the average number of days payable outstanding or DPOs to legacy Global Crossing suppliers which will be a short-term use of cash but improves commercial terms from our lenders.
Turning to Slide 8.
After the close of the quarter we announced the offering of $300 million of 8 7/8% senior notes due 2019.
As of June 30 2012 we had cash on hand of $733 million or $1.026 billion pro forma for the transaction.
Our pro forma net debt-to-EBITDA ratio is at 5.5x compared to 5.9x at the end of the first quarter and we continue to target a range of 3x to 5x.
We feel good about our improving credit profile maturity schedule and liquidity position.
We remain opportunistic in managing our debt maturities and expect our leverage to continue to improve nicely in the coming quarters.
As we noted in the press release this morning we are reiterating the guidance we provided earlier this year.
We expect CNS revenue growth performance to improve in the second half of 2012 and we remain confident in our expectation for 20% to 25% adjusted EBITDA growth for the full year 2012 compared to 2011.
We also continue to expect capital expenditures for 2012 to be approximately 12% of total revenue.
With the capital markets transaction we announced last week we've updated our guidance for interest expense and now expect GAAP interest expense of $745 million and net cash interest expense of approximately $685 million for the full year 2012 and we continue to expect to generate positive free cash flow for the second through fourth quarters of 2012 in the aggregate.
In summary we had a solid second quarter and we remain confident in our outlook for the year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to start off with a few general comments on the quarter.
This quarter we saw continued CNS revenue growth and integration of our networks processes and systems proceeded as planned.
Our customers continue to be pleased with the level of services they are receiving from Level 3 and tell us they value our dedicated sales and service model to support their worldwide communication needs.
As we turn to an update on the performance by channel and by region for the quarter please note that the figures in my remarks are on a constant currency basis.
Our Core Network Services revenue grew 7% sequentially.
We saw strong growth from our enterprise customers in all 3 regions.
Even with the headwinds of the U.K.
government enterprise Core Network Services grew 1.3% sequentially.
Looking at sales.
Last quarter I mentioned that sales were slow in January and February but picked up throughout the quarter ending with strong sales in March.
This quarter we saw solid sales throughout the quarter with our CNS sales orders growing 17% over the first quarter.
In our North America business we continue to see growth from both large- and mid-market enterprise customers.
The wholesale business for North America was roughly flat this quarter improving the results from the prior quarter.
The Latin America business remains strong on a constant currency basis with CNS revenue growth of 2% this quarter.
Enterprise revenue grew nicely offset slightly by declines in wholesale revenue.
The overall business in EMEA declined this quarter primarily due to declines in the U.K.
government business.
The declines were mostly from a single government customer transitioning to another provider.
This is a contract that was lost and disclosed by Global Crossing over a year ago.
While this is a known set of issues and is not material to the overall Level 3 business declines in U.K.
government revenue do have a greater effect on EMEA revenue results.
Wholesale revenue for EMEA declined slightly this quarter.
However we're beginning to see early results from it -- for our -- from our enterprise efforts and saw a sequential CNS revenue growth in the portions of this market but these successes are early and we still have room to improve.
Turning to results by product group.
With the exception of local and enterprise voice services we saw growth across the product portfolio.
Our IP and data services portfolio continues to be well received by the market with VPN data services leading the growth.
Moving to pricing.
Overall we've seen the pricing environment remain consistent with what we've seen over the last several quarters and we are very comfortable with our pricing position in the industry.
I'd like to give you an update on integration as well.
As I mentioned on previous calls we've learned from prior integrations that we need to monitor the customer experience very closely and we've put an early warning system in place to keep a close watch on our business performance from end to end beginning with quoting and sales through installation service management and billing.
Our early warning system is working and continues to guide our efforts.
We recently consolidated our service management ticketing systems for North America and EMEA which enables us to have a unified view of the customers' products and services across those regions.
We expect to consolidate Latin America ticketing as the integration continues.
During the quarter we simplified the customer contracting process for the company and continue to focus on sales operations processes and training to further improve the customer experience which is our top priority.
Looking at the acceptance we received from the marketplace.
The initial enthusiasm we saw from our customers when we announced the Global Crossing acquisition about the combination of our global network assets our robust product portfolio and our attention to service has not waned.
Many of our customers have increasingly built global communications needs and they value the ability to work with a single provider to meet those needs worldwide.
This "local to global to local" capability is proving to be a key differentiator in the market.
Another area of keen focus has been service delivery.
We are maintaining our ability to deliver service quickly and meet customer installation time frames.
As has been the case over the last several years the bottleneck and service delivery tends to be with the off-net providers and primarily the larger incumbents.
We continue to work with those providers to improve their performance to meet our expectations.
We continue to rationalize our product portfolio while augmenting our capabilities.
Compared to even 5 years ago enterprise CIOs are now tasked with managing more and more.
They're required to enable their users to access any content from any location at any time over a wide variety of devices.
We have been augmenting our managed services and managed security offerings to meet these changing needs.
Continuous availability and security of applications supported by cloud services is not a nice to have but is now a requirement.
Level 3's position in the Internet extensive CDN network and experience with large scalable networks enables us to provide these services and meet these needs in a unique way.
We have also recently consolidated our North America and EMEA ERP systems and have begun work on the integration of the Latin America ERP system.
We continue to progress in optimizing our network and minimizing off-net costs.
As Sunit mentioned we realized an additional $15 million in annualized run rate network expense synergies this quarter.
In summary we remain highly focused on execution to deliver the best customer experience in the industry while we still grow revenue.
Our dedicated sales and support model and end-to-end global capabilities resonate with our customers and we continue to see strong demand for our services.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Jim.
Thanks Jeff.
On top of Sunit and Jeff's remarks I would add that I think the overall message is that we need to keep doing what we have been doing.
And while I would caution as I often do that our results like life are rarely linear it is the case that we do not need to change the course or trajectory of our business.
We just need to continue to maintain our current operational and financial momentum to achieve the results that we are targeting.
At the CNS revenue line this quarter's 17% growth in signed contracts gives us confidence that the CNS revenue growth will accelerate in the second half.
Sequential adjusted EBITDA growth this quarter of 8% puts us on track to achieve our guidance of 20% to 25% year-over-year adjusted EBITDA growth.
CapEx is forecast to meet our guidance of about 12% of revenue.
And we expect to be free cash flow positive through the balance of the year.
And finally we believe that we're clearly on track to achieve our synergy targets on our announced schedule while maintaining our key imperative that is to continuously improve our customer's experience.
Taken together we think the results indicate that there are no hockey sticks or abrupt changes of trend lines necessary to meet our goals.
We just need to continue to execute.
That ends our prepared remarks.
Operator please describe the Q&amp;A process.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question from the line of Ana Goshko from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> The first one is on the double-digit growth in orders that you're seeing in CNS if you could maybe provide us some more color on the driver behind that.
Is it more driven by secular demands in the market where your existing customers are coming back for more capacity or more services? Or do you feel that from a sales approach you're beginning to penetrate either new accounts or taking market share in particular areas? The -- Ana I'm going to take a first shot at that then invite Jeff to embroider as he sees fit.
The -- in general I'll repeat what Jeff said: The larger incumbents and this is true across not just the North American continent but in EMEA and Latin America great companies but are disinvesting in the wireline business.
We remain eager to continue to invest in expanding our network expanding our service portfolio and expanding our ability to provide refined customer experiences.
That helps.
And anyone on the call who wants to test this simply talk to customers.
That's a theme we are -- over and over and over again our customers want somebody with the -- a perceived size stability breadth of portfolio that the incumbents have but someone that's actually investing in new product new service new geography and is easy to do business with and that's our target.
I've seen -- heard Jeff say that over and over and over again.
With respect to the drivers I think there's a big push across not just the U.S.
but Europe and Latin America to add new logos.
We've said that for a couple of quarters.
And I think the new logo growth is in no small part responsible for what we're seeing.
Jeff? I think that's right.
We add hundreds of new logos a quarter if not thousands and so we're very very focused on doing that.
Oftentimes we have a wedge strategy though which is to sell a little bit of service to those new logos and then continue to grow the business from them so much of our business is from repeat customers customers that buy services from us in the past.
But that's the intentional strategy: get in with a wedge service grow some small business with new logos and then over time win more and more of their business.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick follow-up for Sunit.
On the $125 million of synergies achieved to date -- annualized that's a great head start.
That's -- sounds like a lot of those cost reductions were front loaded.
But your guidance is to achieve $200 million by the end of the first quarter of '13.
So I'm wondering that remaining $75 million do you see that from this point on being more linear over the remaining 3 quarters? Or should we expect a kind of a continued front-loading of the remaining cost cuts? Ana I think that will probably be more linear in nature.
If they is front-loading I would say the next second half of the year or the next 2 quarters we'd see a little higher performance in the first quarter of next year but generally fairly fairly straight line.
Our next questions are from the line of Colby Synesael from Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great I have 2 questions.
So first off the U.K.
government obviously again weak down I think about 12% quarter-over-quarter.
How much of that -- or Sunit how much before we hit a baseline in terms of when that's actually going to start to bottom out? Or is that something we should think of as just continuing to be a perpetual decliner? Just trying to gauge how to think about that.
And then the second question has to do with deferred revenue.
It's down about $25 million quarter-over-quarter.
Based on the strong 2Q bookings would you expect that to go back up in the second half of this year? All right thank you Colby.
So on the first question the U.K.
government as I said in my comments I think we expect it to decline over the course of this year.
However as you also said in the past in the longer term we expect that business to be a healthy business.
So while it's in the middle of being repositioned longer term we do feel there's a lot of opportunity there.
But this year we obviously expect it to decline which is...
LLC Research Division</strong> So obviously it's already declined in the first half of this year so I guess the expectation is it will decline further in the third and the fourth quarter and at the same rate that we saw in the first half? Well it's tough to predict when exactly it stabilizes and goes up because keep in mind as Jeff mentioned these were contract changes or announcements that were made before the Global Crossing acquisitions.
We don't exactly know when it dance around.
But generally speaking I think we've seen a big chunk of the decline.
There will be some more decline but next year hopefully we'll start seeing it grow again.
Jim is going to add...
Yes.
I just got back from a review in London and I'd underline Sunit's remarks and add that the reason it's tough or part of the reason it's tough to predict is these services which tend to be legacy services and limited in their amount they're not unlimited are being transitioned to newer services.
We have a shot at some of those.
But in particular there's one that's being -- or moved to another vendor and that's always a difficult proposition not only do we have to take action so does the other provider.
And this has been inherently unpredictable in many many instances.
With respect to the slope or the curve I'll talk trend line and underlining Sunit's remarks since we think by the end of the year it's largely behind us and we'll -- we expect some amount of slowdown in aggregate in the decline.
But we could have no decline for the next couple of quarters and find it in the first quarter of next year because we don't control much of the migration.
What was your second question? The second question was on deferred revenue.
So probably about 1/2 of the decline in the deferred revenue was FX-driven since we have deferred revenue balances outside the U.S.
in other currencies.
So that was 1/2.
The other 1/2 was we had amortization exceeding cash collections on IRUs.
As you know the IRU revenue stream is generally lumpy in nature.
Overall we don't really -- putting FX aside we don't really expect much in the way of change to the deferred revenue or measured if you look on a year-over-year basis.
The only one difference outside that we've talked about a couple of quarters ago is that we certainly are not doing the kind of prepaid high-speed IP and other contracts that Global Crossing used to do.
We don't think those are commercially in our best interests so we were not doing both that.
But in general the IRU business is lumpy.
We don't expect too much change in the deferred revenue balance year-over-year excluding the effects of FX.
Our next question from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay looking at the Core Network Services just had a question on a couple of revenue components to that.
Within the colocation and data center business generally that's viewed as some of the better parts of the industry and it's been relatively flat for Level 3 for the last year or so.
Can you give us an idea of what your thoughts are on the possibility of growing that business and why that's remained flat when it's -- it appears to be improving in a lot of the other -- a lot of other companies? And then within the transport and fiber business can you give us an idea of what sort of the makeup of that business is and how much of that is more IRU or things? And then why do you consider that part of your core services and not in wholesale? Well we...
So wholesale is part of our core services right? That's why we break CNS in wholesale and enterprise.
So you may be referring to wholesale voice which is a separate line item from Core Network Services.
Wholesale voice is in effect terminating long-distance calls anywhere around the world over our infrastructure.
We accept minutes and terminate them.
That's a different business as we pointed out it's different financially.
It has different gross margin production.
Transport and fiber is a high-margin high -- very high-gross margin business and part of the Level 3 strategy of having a set of building blocks one on top of the other that allows us to meet the life cycle needs of our customers from customers who need finished products CDN enterprise voice IP VPNs to those who tend to buy more component-based services and those who by both.
We consider fiber and transport to be a fundamental component.
With respect to your question about colocation and data center services we disaggregate that industry geographically and in terms of the segments we serve.
Let me point out to start with we have a direct and very beneficial relationship not just with our own data centers but with cloud service providers; data center providers; those who view it as high-tech real estate; those who manage their own like large search and portal companies; and everything in between.
We tend to believe today and this fast-changing market that in less-developed parts of the world bundling infrastructure as a service software as a service with transport products meets customers' needs.
They tend not to want to buy individual components.
In more-developed parts of the country -- of the world we tend to believe customers disaggregate data center cloud services from transport and we tend to focus on transport where we think we're the market leader broadly speaking.
Now that statement I just made is under continuous review because this is one of the fastest-growing and fastest-changing part of our industry.
So we're always looking at that statement.
But I think those who lump cloud and data center services into 1 segment rather than recognizing it 7 or 8 different segments would be mistaken.
It's several different segments and it's different geographically because that at least in our view...
Let me also make sure but I mentioned one thing.
Our -- actually our data center services have been growing quite nicely.
If you look at the supplemental schedule in the earnings presentation you'll see that.
And keep in mind our Latin America business is actually -- Latin America data center business is growing quite strongly in fact double-digit type growth in data center services.
Keep in mind we did have -- if you look at the difference between the constant currency growth rate and the reported growth rate you'll see a big difference in Latin America obviously because the Brazilian real went down.
So our Latin -- our -- if you stand back and look at the data center business from a constant currency basis we have been posting pretty strong growth over the last couple of quarters.
And as we talked about earlier we had expanded our head capital expenditures to expand our data center business in Latin America and have opened 2 higher-power-density data centers here in the U.S.
So generally it's a good business as Jim pointed out.
We typically sell that coupled with our transport services as opposed to a separate stand-alone business.
We typically get 2x 3x multiple on transport services to any data center services we sell.
So we like the business it's a good business.
And as Jim stated it's evolving and we're keeping close tabs on it.
Our next question from the line of Donna Jaegers from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> On the CNS bookings numbers just a little more color.
Can you give us sense -- you it was up 17% in the second quarter.
Can you give us sort of a comparable rate for the first quarter or any sort of feel for how this will start to translate into sales growth as far as sequential sales growth? A couple of comments.
I think one keep in mind of the -- we have -- as we pointed out last quarter that the year started off a little slow but we had a strong March.
So I think we are basically seeing full 3 months order sales it certainly helps us.
In terms of how it translates to the revenue line obviously you have what -- how do you install from those sales orders and the install intervals from the time the orders entered? You have disconnects you have rate changes you have change in usage you have seasonality that occurs from number of business days in a month on voice and collaboration-type services then there are seasonal factors.
But -- so all of that goes into how it translates into the revenue line.
But I think overall the point we are making is -- from a leading-indicator perspective is that we had a strong sales orders quarter and that means that we feel quite confident that we should see stronger sequential CNS performance second half of the year compared to what we've seen in the first half of the year.
You might...
This is a record quarter with the caution that comparability only goes back to the beginning of last year.
But on that basis pro forma for the acquisition of Global Crossing this is the best we've had.
The first quarter is typically -- fourth to first as you would know is typically a seasonally slower quarter because fourth is strong so it's quite a bit above first quarter.
Okay? Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one -- just one quick follow-up.
You guys -- in December there was a DISA contract announced $410 million I think over 10 years.
Is that installed now? Should we start to see that flow into third quarter revenues? Well I mean -- it's tough to comment too much on it other than to say that any contracts with the U.S.
government usually takes sometimes several quarters to sometimes 1 year or 2 to get fully in place.
I can't make any specific comments on this.
No one particularly will know yes.
But that is the -- to be clear that's the 10-year total revenue expectations.
And it could be below that it could be considerably above it.
It depends on business needs over the next 10 years.
I know generally Donna that our federal systems group is a major bright spot for us.
We've talked for several years that that's a big flywheel business for a lot of reasons.
It -- there is -- you have to devote significant resources.
You have to make sure you speak federal languages like the Federal Acquisition Regulation requirements.
We've made that investment and we're seeing the results and we expect that trend line to continue.
We have a great team back in D.C.
and they are delivering results.
Yes we've been happy with the performance of the federal group.
And they picked up a fair bit of momentum and we see that continuing in terms of continued translation into solid revenue growth from that channel.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question from the line of Tim Horan from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Great job on the expenses.
I know some of it is mix and synergies here but how much more runway do you think you have on the overall margin front absent synergies over the next couple of years? And then just a quick question on the sales cycle here.
Are -- these trends that you're seeing are they continuing into the third quarter so far? Can you comment a little bit on what you're kind of seeing what you expect over the next month or 2? I want to provide Sunit an introduction on your first question and Jeff will take your second.
I would refer you back to my first quarter remarks in summary where I talked at some length about the fact that we expect -- we've normally said 80% incremental gross margin 60% to 65% incremental EBITDA margins but we said for the next several quarters we're going to see supranormal operating leverage both because we're taking a lot of cost out and because of our normal operating leverage that could it -- last few quarters we've -- for each dollar of revenue we've been getting more than $1 of EBITDA and that math continues on for a period of time.
Sunit? Yes.
I mean I would underline what Jim said and just say that that benefit obviously will be there over the course of this year and also next year.
And then as we come to the second half of the next year or move from 2013 onwards it will be the 60% incremental EBITDA margins on CNS revenue growth as we've talked about in the past.
But obviously over the course of this year and next year it's that plus the synergies which gives you much higher contribution to the EBITDA line as Jim mentioned.
Tim with respect to your question on sales for the third quarter it's too early to tell about sales but let me talk about our funnel.
We close our funnel and convert our funnel in a fairly predictable manner.
And so if we can continually increase our funnel and improve on our close rates then we expect sales to go up.
Today we have a very strong funnel looking forward and it will be at best to execute on closing that funnel.
But we're excited about the opportunities we see.
Next question from the line of Michael Funk Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple quick ones.
First on CapEx thinking about the remainder of the year.
How much of that in your guidance is success-based versus project-based maybe the projects you can call out? And then for the second one you did comment during the first quarter about the trending of bookings during the quarter maybe you can provide some similar commentary for 2Q? I guess one more if I could for Jeff.
You commented on the early warning system you have in place to highlight any kind of issues that might come up.
Maybe you can just highlight some of the issues that were highlighted and how you head those off? Okay I'll take the question on CapEx and bookings which are the sales orders I think you're referring to.
On the CapEx side as we've said in the past about 200 to 250 maybe on the lower end by -- is our maintenance CapEx.
Everything else is success-based generally.
This year our project-based CapEx will probably be in the range of about $50 million or so.
Where is that going? As we mentioned we are extending our metro networks a fair bit in the U.S.
in Latin America and in EMEA principally in the U.K.
We have continued geographic expansions.
We are probably expanding into a couple of markets one in EMEA one in the Africa this year.
We are putting money into as I say data center expansions in Latin America.
But the main thrust of what we are doing is really extending our capillarity across our network.
We see and we for example picked up the pace of building adds quite significantly in the second quarter.
We see that continuing so.
And then while it is project-based as such the paybacks and the IRRs are very high.
As we indicated generally 60% to 100% type IRRs on all these projects so very attractive opportunities for us to sell to our customers on an on-net basis.
So that's -- those are the main components of the CapEx on the project side.
From a bookings order perspective as we said second quarter was up 17% compared to the first quarter.
And as Jeff indicated the funnel looks strong in the third quarter so tough to predict exactly what the sales would be in the third quarter but at least the strength in the funnel looks like it's comparable to the second quarter.
But we'll -- we won't know until we close.
With respect to the early warning system.
Our early warning system is focused on the things that affect the customer experience or affect our future ability to deliver on the customer experience.
So if we see a lengthening in service delivery cycles or we see an increased delay from off-net providers the early warning system is in place to help us address that.
So I already mentioned off-net providers we're working with them closely as a result of things that we've seen from them trying to improve their performance trying to help them meet our expectations and our customers' expectations.
First management and reliability as we began the integration we recognize pretty quickly that the faster we can get to a common ticketing system the better able we're going to be at resolving our customers' problems in a timely manner and a quick manner the more accurate information we're going to be able to give them when we talk to them and the more frequently we're going to be able to talk to them about those issues.
So it helps us change our priorities and establish what we're going to do when we're going to do.
But the system is very simple.
Look at what the customer experience feels like for the customer across service delivery across billing across service management and then react in your prioritization and your time lines and to meet those challenges.
And it's been working the way we expect and we're very pleased with it.
Our next question from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Sunit I wonder if you could talk about your thoughts on liquidity.
You have over $1 billion on hand.
You have modest maturities in '13.
How are you thinking about the term structure and how much liquidity you need as a buffer? And then Jim you've obviously made good progress on the Global Crossing integration.
It seems like the synergies are well in-hand.
How are you thinking about other M&amp;A opportunities as this as an industry continues to see good consolidation? Are there opportunities out there that you might start looking out again now that the Global Crossing integration is well underway? I'll take the question -- the first question Simon.
I think we feel good about our current liquidity but I think given everything we read in the macro headlines we continue to be cautious and opportunistic.
And as we pointed out earlier we like to be earlier in terms of taking care of our upcoming maturities.
We have $1.4 billion of bank debt coming due in 2014.
After that the maturities are quite small as you point out.
So that's really the only one that is on the radar over the next few quarters.
So I think that the $300 million we raised was good insurance for us in terms of handling near-term maturities and providing adequate liquidity positions us well for taking care of the 2014 maturities over the next few quarters.
So I think that's -- that really is the bottom line on that and the liquidity position is good.
With respect to your question about M&amp;A first foremost in our minds is to continue to improve the customer experience for our current set of customers and for the new logos we sell directly to organic growth.
We believe for the foreseeable future we have an addressable market.
Now this isn't theoretical this is a market that we can serve with our existing network in interval -- install intervals that are market-acceptable for services we have to customers who buy what we sell.
And we've done a lot of data work on that.
We think we can identify that market quite well perhaps in a way that is a competitive differentiator.
We think we have no lack of addressable market.
And that execution is the surest best route continuing to see the kind of growth we want to get the whole business in aggregate up to 2% a quarter that's our goal.
We achieved that in 2011 prior to the acquisition and we can do it again for the combined company.
If we do that we'll set another target.
That creates a great deal of value.
You can model that out.
I know some have and it creates a lot of value given our operating leverage.
We are happy to look at M&amp;A when first it doesn't affect our ability to deliver superior customer service and it creates more value than our organic plan or adds to it.
And we've said over and over both Sunit and I and Jeff acquisitions have to be free cash flow accretive per share.
They have to be credit accretive and we're not much interested in acquisitions that are not growth neutral to accretive.
And on top of that we expect to buy at prices that are value-creating for our customers.
And the result isn't hundreds of opportunities today.
In any event we still want to focus on integration.
In the next few quarters if everything goes well we'll probably open up and look but we're pretty picky about the targets.
We want to have to meet that -- those tests.
And in general we tend to think maybe some places outside the U.S.
might be more attractive than here in the U.S.
where things look pretty pricey right now particularly for the assets we're interested in.
They're priced in such a way that it seems to us trying to get dependable synergies with a safety margin is getting pretty to be a thin proposition.
That's the sort of way we're thinking about it and we'll update our thinking as the quarters progress.
Our last question from the line of Mike Rollins Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple if I could.
Firstly could you talk a little bit more specifically about the enterprise segment across regions? Are there -- I know you talked over the course of the call on some of the products that are doing well but is there a part of the enterprise market that's been driving more of your performance midmarket versus large enterprise? And then secondly could you talk about your CDN business? And is there a risk to the momentum of that business if some of your customers like Netflix were to build out their own network? With respect to enterprise there are a number of answers to your questions.
What is it that's driving enterprise growth? I made a comment at the start.
I think Jeff underlined it -- but -- made the same comment which I'll repeat in summary.
And again we encourage to talk to customers.
We hear this uniformly and we've tested it not only through our own context but through third parties.
We've retained asked the same set of questions.
There is a big opportunity for a company that has the kind of perceived strength financially the size the reach the network reach that the incumbents have but is actually investing in the wireline business growing investing adding new products adding new services.
We think that's an almost unique opportunity for Level 3 given our scope and scale which gives nothing up to the incumbents.
They're clearly more dense in their service territories but if you look at the kind of footprint we have and the almost $40 billion of gross property plant equipment that was invested in our infrastructure we give up nothing to the incumbents.
And we think our product portfolio tends to be more of what customers want today and far less of legacy services that have to be managed down.
With respect to the specifics Jeff do you want to talk about segments and products? Sure yes.
So if you look across the enterprise segment and across our company in general the products driving growth are IP and data services with -- being led by IP VPN services.
If you think about the global value proposition we have for customers the IP VPN leads that as well.
So that's where -- that's the product set.
We mentioned that there's a decline in enterprise voice.
That's primarily the one customer in the U.K.
government.
So we still have other products that are helping us grow that bring the overall portfolio to the customer but it's really led by IP and data services.
If you look at across the regions it's pretty consistent.
North America is growing growing well.
Latin America is growing the enterprise business well.
We've said that we're starting to see the effects in Europe and EMEA.
We're not yet pleased with those effects.
We're not yet where we want to be with those efforts but we're starting to see the results.
And excluding again the U.K.
government we grew enterprise revenue in EMEA in the second quarter as well.
The split between midmarket and large enterprise both are growing well.
I wouldn't try and characterize one is doing better than the other.
Large enterprise tends to be a little lumpier.
We'll have one good quarter we have one bad quarter just because it focuses a little more on big deals.
But both are doing well both are meeting our expectations and we're very encouraged about the future.
With respect to your question about CDN we've said for quite some time and I think we've been consistent on this that moving video is going to become no big surprise to anyone the dominant form of traffic that we deal with.
And today it's the majority of the traffic on our network.
That's point one.
Point two you can't throw capital at a network and add capacity to handle this.
If -- you'd go broke moving the quantities around with simple additions of bandwidth.
CDN is a way of managing that issue.
It means combining storage and transmission intelligently and deciding where you store video games big software downloads et cetera.
We've sent consistently that we think that's a carrier business over time.
That is it will be a fundamental part of our business just like routing IP packets is a fundamental part of a carrier or a communications company's business.
So now to your question.
We're going to have customers and we have had customers and we'll have customers who progress through the life cycle.
That is they start out buying -- growing quickly buy CDN IP.
Their needs get bigger they start managing their costs not just their revenue.
They start buying lower-level component services.
We like that.
We for instance have plenty of customers who've worked their way down from buying IP transit to buying waves and in some places connecting their locations with managed fiber services.
And we like having a life cycle relationship with customers including folks like Netflix who we have a range of products we sell to and we consider a great strategic customer of ours.
Some parts of the world we will continue to provide CDN to customers.
Other parts they may wish to buy fiber; some places waves; some places IP.
We are unique in our ability to meet that broad set of needs and view it as a strength not as a problem.
By the way I would add several years ago we had a debate about whether we were in effect selling our seed corn if we took this approach.
We don't wonder anymore.
We know it's a good approach.
I have many many examples where we sell a broad variety of products that are different than the set of products we started with.
CDN is a part of it and so are many other products.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> It does.
Okay.
I think that's the last question operator.
That's the end of the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation and kindly ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday October 24 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Valerie Finberg Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Crowe Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Storey President and Chief Operating Officer; Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Buddy Miller Vice Chairman.
Before we get started as a reminder our press release and the presentation slides that accompany this call as well as our detailed supplemental schedules are all available in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor Statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 3Q '12 earnings presentation which says that information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Finally please note that on today's call and in the earnings presentation we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available in the press release and presentation which is posted on our website at www.level3.com.
I will now turn the call over to Jim.
Jim? Thanks Valerie.
Following our normal format Sunit Patel will lead off with a discussion of the financial results for the quarter and an outlook for the balance of the year.
Jeff Storey will discuss operational matters including segment results and provide an update on the status of integration planning and implementation.
I'll provide a brief summary and then we'll open it up for questions.
Sunit? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
I'd like to begin with some of the highlights for the quarter which can be found on Slide 3 of our presentation.
Overall Core Network Services revenue grew 1.1% sequentially on a constant currency basis with strong growth from our Latin America business as well as continued growth in enterprise.
Adjusted EBITDA increased to $372 million this quarter.
We remain on track to achieve our adjusted EBITDA guidance for 2012 and we continue to make progress in achieving EBITDA synergies.
In addition we completed approximately $3.7 billion of financings after the end of the second quarter reducing interest expense and improving our maturity and liquidity profile.
Turning to the detailed results for the third quarter 2012 on Slide 4 keep in mind my comments regarding overall EMEA and LatAm revenue growth are on a constant currency basis.
Core Network Services revenue grew 1.1% in the third quarter compared to 0.7% growth in the second quarter.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 1.5% sequentially.
On a regional basis North American CNS revenues grew 0.5% sequentially as a result of 1% growth from our enterprise customers.
Revenue from our wholesale customers was relatively flat compared to the second quarter.
In EMEA sequential revenue declined 0.8% an improvement compared to a decline of 2.3% in the second quarter.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 1.3% sequentially.
U.K.
government revenue is slowly stabilizing declining 2% sequentially a significant improvement compared to the 13% decline in the second quarter.
Wholesale revenues declined approximately 2.1% sequentially.
Latin America CNS revenues grew stronger this quarter increasing 6% sequentially.
Enterprise revenues grew 4.8% sequentially as a result of broad-based demand while wholesale also had strong performance increasing 10.8% sequentially.
Wholesale voice services and other revenues was $195 million this quarter compared to $200 million in the second quarter.
As a reminder we managed our combined wholesale voice platform for margin growth and we continue to expect volatility in wholesale voice services revenue going forward.
At the bottom of Slide 4 before third quarter 2012 CNS revenue churn improved across the business to approximately 1.2% which is back to rates typical for our business.
This compared to 1.6% in the second quarter of 2012.
Turning to Slide 5.
We continue to improve our gross margin to 59.6% compared to 59.1% in the second quarter of 2012.
It's primarily as a result of an increase in our higher-margin CNS services revenue a decrease in our lower-margin wholesale voice services revenue and network expense synergies.
SG&amp;A.
Excluding noncash compensation SG&amp;A expense was $576 million in the third quarter 2012 compared to $585 million in the second quarter.
Utility costs were higher by about high-single-digit millions of dollars in the quarter due to seasonal increases for cooling requirements in our network and data centers in the summer months.
We expect those costs to decrease by about that amount in the fourth quarter.
Noncash compensation increased during the quarter.
For the year-to-date noncash compensation expense has averaged about $34 million per quarter and we expect the fourth quarter to be roughly at that average.
Included in SG&amp;A were $18 million $17 million and $15 million in integration costs for the third quarter of 2012 second quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2012 respectively.
On Slide 6 adjusted EBITDA increased to $372 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $353 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Continued synergies and increased higher-margin CNS services revenue contributed to this increase.
Adjusted EBITDA margin also improved increasing to 23.4% in the third quarter of 2012 compared to 22.3% in the second quarter.
During the quarter we achieved an additional $40 million in run-rate EBITDA synergies for a total of approximately $165 million of annualized synergies since the Global Crossing acquisition closed about a year ago.
Total annualized synergy savings consist of approximately $64 million in network expense $101 million of operating expense savings.
As of the second quarter of 2012 we had achieved $125 million of annualized synergies which included about $50 million on network expense and $75 million on operating expense synergies.
We had said we would achieve approximately 2/3 or $200 million of the $300 million of expected annualized EBITDA synergies at the end of the first quarter of 2013.
We're pleased with the progress we made so far and believe we are ahead of schedule to achieve the $200 million of synergies.
Capital expenditures.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures increased to $227 million in the third quarter compared to $180 million in the second quarter of 2012 representing approximately 14% of third quarter revenue.
Year-to-date CapEx is approximately 11% of revenue.
Capital expenditures increased in each of the 3 regions as a result of higher spending for subsea augments data center build-outs building adds and network expansion and augments.
We continue to expect CapEx to be about 12% of revenues for 2012.
Turning to Slide 7.
Free cash flow was negative $157 million during the third quarter of 2012 compared to positive $3 million for the second quarter of 2012.
The increase in negative free cash flow was driven by higher net cash interest expense of $120 million due to the timing of higher interest payments in the first and third quarters of each year.
In addition working capital was a use of cash in the third quarter of 2012.
For the fourth quarter we expect net cash interest expense to decline by approximately $110 million.
Turning to Slide 8.
We completed multiple capital market transactions during the quarter and after the close of the quarter.
The specific transactions are detailed in our earnings press release.
As a result of these the company reduced the average interest rate on its outstanding debt maturities to 7.5% down from approximately 7.9% at the end of the second quarter of 2012.
We also improved our pro forma net debt-to-EBITDA ratio to 5.4x from 5.5x at the end of the second quarter of 2012.
We continue to target a range of 3 to 5x.
During the third quarter as a result of these transactions we incurred a loss of $49 million on the extinguishment of debt.
We also recognized a noncash loss of $60 million during the quarter as the interest rate swap agreements are no longer receiving hedge accounting treatment.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we expect to incur a loss of $50 million related to the $1.2 billion refinancing transaction we completed earlier this month.
Overall we feel good about our improving credit profile and maturity schedule and liquidity position.
We remain opportunistic in managing our debt maturities and expect our leverage to continue to improve nicely in the coming quarters.
As of the end of the third quarter 2012 the company had cash of approximately $793 million.
Business outlook.
We are reiterating the guidance we provided earlier this year and expect stronger CNS revenue growth performance in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We remain confident in our expectations for 20% to 25% adjusted EBITDA growth.
We continue to expect capital expenditures for the full year 2012 to be approximately 12% of total revenue and to generate positive free cash flow for the second through fourth quarters of 2012 in the aggregate.
In summary we feel that our revenue performance continues to improve and we are making good progress in achieving synergies.
We are now in a great position with respect to our liquidity and debt maturities and expect to keep reducing our interest expenses going forward.
Finally our revenue growth and EBITDA trajectory combined with the interest expense reductions going forward would move us closer to sustainable free cash flow.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit and good morning everyone.
Just a few weeks ago we passed the 1-year mark since the Global Crossing acquisition closed.
I'm pleased to say that the integration is going as planned.
You've heard me say before that our #1 priority is the customer experience and that the cornerstone of the integration process is to closely monitor all customer touch points.
I'll cover more on this later but based on the results from our annual customer loyalty survey and our monthly transactional surveys indications are that this strategy has been effective.
As you can see from our results Core Network Services revenue growth strengthened this quarter led by strong growth in Latin America as well as continued enterprise growth across the company.
Before I turn to the update on performance by channel and by region for the quarter please note all figures provided in my remarks are on a constant currency basis.
Core Network Services revenue grew 1.1% sequentially an improvement compared to 0.7% last quarter.
As I mentioned we continue to gain traction in the enterprise market and enterprise Core Network Services revenues grew 1.5% sequentially.
Enterprise customers now represent 64% of total CNS revenues.
I said on previous calls we believe our ability to execute has greater impact on our growth with enterprise customers in the macroeconomic conditions.
We see strong demand from our enterprises for the types of networking services managed services and managed security services we provide.
Our growth with these customers will continue to be based on our ability to perform.
In North America we saw growth in our enterprise business of about 1% including growth in the Federal government sector.
In the third quarter we did see some pressure from fewer business days compared to the second quarter which affects usage-based services such as collaboration and enterprise voice.
The wholesale business for North America was roughly flat.
The Latin America business strengthened this quarter growing 6% sequentially.
Enterprise revenues grew 4.8% sequentially up from 3% growth last quarter.
And wholesale revenues grew 10.8% sequentially as a result of several factors including overall higher customer demand.
Our Latin America team did a great job growing the business this quarter.
EMEA CNS revenues declined 0.8% sequentially this quarter an improvement from the decline in the second quarter.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 1.3% sequentially.
We are seeing the early results of the actions we've taken in the enterprise market in EMEA but believe we have room to improve for steady and predictable enterprise growth in this region.
While U.K.
government revenues declined 2% sequentially this was a significant improvement from the decline last quarter.
As Global Crossing disclosed over a year ago the majority of the declines are from 2 major government contracts transitioning to another provider and the third contract that has been won again that has a significant re-rate.
We continue to expect declines for another few quarters with the pace of the declines continuing to be lumpy in any given quarter.
Wholesale revenues for EMEA declined 2% this quarter.
The dip in wholesale revenue is driven primarily by summer seasonality in IP traffic and by some price pressure in the same market.
From a CNS sales perspective we indicated on the second quarter call that we had a record quarter in sales.
The third quarter results although slightly lower because of the seasonality of the late summer months were comparable to the second quarter sales.
Turning to results by product group.
We saw strong growth in IP and data services and transport and fiber.
We're seeing strong demand in revenue growth in VPN services for our enterprise customers and Wavelength revenues continue to grow.
On a constant currency basis colocation data centers services grew slightly.
Moving to pricing.
We've seen very little change in the pricing environment from the comments we've made in prior quarters.
We continue to see favorable pricing for enterprise and metro services in general pricing for high-speed IP CDN and point-to-point Wavelength services for ultra-long-haul routes continues to be more aggressive compared to the rest of our services.
Turning now to an update on integration.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks we just passed the 1-year mark of the acquisition's closing.
During the year we have focused intently on the customer experience and asked for and listened to the feedback our customers provided.
We just completed our annual customer loyalty survey and I'm pleased to share that our customers have not seen a decline in the quality of services they're receiving from the combined company.
In all of the categories surveyed such as satisfaction with performance likelihood to recommend Level 3 to other customers likelihood to repurchase from Level 3 our scores were either the same or better than last year's survey.
In addition we completed monthly transactional surveys with customers that have had a recent interaction with the company a service install or trouble ticket and we continue to monitor those transactional surveys very closely.
A little more anecdotally but no less indicative I spend a great deal of my time talking and working with customers.
Each month I send a letter to every new customer welcoming them and providing my contact information.
I have my cell phone listed on my business card and encourage customers with issues to contact me directly.
I know from my own experience when I joined the company at the end of 2008 I received numerous customer escalations related to a variety of customer issues.
With the improvements we've implemented over the past 3.5 years calls or emails to me are rarer.
While I do receive a few more calls than I did just prior to the acquisition our customer base has nearly doubled.
Overall I'm pleased with our continued focus on the customer and see it paying off in a better experience and our ability to grow.
I often provide a customer example to describe how customers use our services.
This quarter's example illustrates how the distribution in media is ever-changing.
During the third quarter we were pleased to be part of the Red Bull Stratos record-breaking event where Felix Baumgartner jumped from 24 miles above the earth.
Level 3 as the global distribution partner reported this live event viewed in over 50 countries.
We continue to make progress integrating processes and systems.
Recently we consolidated a large portion of our quoting system across the global footprint.
We are very focused on improving the productivity of our existing sales force.
We're adding new sales people each month and are aggressively focused on on-boarding our sales talent providing more confidence at training and deeper mentoring to make each salesperson effective more quickly.
We continue to invest in sales tools to benefit the overall sales force and to develop capabilities to automate the customer's experience with us including ordering ticket management billing and other systems that improve the ease of doing business with Level 3.
We remain focused on optimizing our network and reducing the cost we spend for off-net services.
To that end we made further progress this quarter realizing an additional $14 million in annualized network synergies.
In summary we're excited about our overall opportunity particularly with enterprise markets.
We believe the quality of our network our services and most of all our people position us well to succeed.
We're pleased that our customers continue to choose Level 3 to be their provider for the future and we remain focused on continuing to increase sequential CNS revenue growth while maintaining the level of service our customers expect.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Jim.
As usual Sunit and Jeff have done a fine job in summarizing the quarter.
I'll just emphasize a few points.
Last quarter I said that we need to keep doing what we are doing that is we don't have to change course or trajectory.
We just need to maintain our current operational and financial momentum.
We do this we will achieve one of our essential goals that is growing CNS revenue 2% sequentially while maintaining industry-leading incremental margins.
This quarter the evidence supporting this statement is apparent in our results.
We saw improvement in quarterly CNS revenue growth rate from 0.7% to 1.1% and our gross and adjusted EBITDA margins continue to expand.
Also importantly and as Jeff emphasized we continue to be pleased with our integration efforts and intensely focused on our customer experience.
We think that's paying off and you can expect us to continue to dedicate significant resources to the effort.
Viewed as a whole we think our results indicate  there aren't any hockey sticks or abrupt changes in direction necessary to meet our goals.
We just need to continue to execute as we have since our merger with Global Crossing closed a year ago.
I'll close with a couple of final comments.
First congratulations to Hector Alonso and the whole of our Latin American team for an outstanding performance.
I cannot think of very many companies in our business that enjoy 6% sequential quarterly revenue growth and have the kind of outstanding margins produced by Hector and his folks.
I'd also like to congratulate Sunit Patel and the folks in finance and legal for successfully managing the capital markets activities that resulted in the strong financial position we find ourselves in today.
Operator that ends our prepared remarks.
Would you describe the Q&amp;A process please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Colby Synesael of Cowen And Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions if I may.
The first one has to do with bookings and potential growth in the fourth quarter and then the other one on the U.K.
government business.
First off on the booking you mentioned that they're comparable to the second quarter.
Curious if that's what you were expecting going into the quarter.
There's been a lot of talk obviously about weakening enterprise trends and I'm just wondering if you're seeing that.
Then the other aspect to that is that as we move into the fourth quarter I think you guys have been talking about seeing stronger CNS growth than what we've seen at third quarter and you just put up the 1.1%.
Is that still your expectation and how the bookings kind of tied back into that? And then the other question is talking about the U.K.
government business you mentioned that there's 3 specific contracts where you guys have lost those -- or actually it's a Global Crossing losses or 2 that were lost and one that's actually has been reduced in size.
Could you actually provide to us some contacts on what the actual absolute churn from those 3 contracts are and how much were actually through that so we can get some understanding of where the numbers have to go or bottom out before we could actually start to see more organic growth from that business? I realize that that's probably hard to predict in terms of the timing.
But if we can get a sense of what was actually lost maybe we could get a better understanding of visibility on that business going forward.
I'll take the questions on fourth quarter revenue and the U.K.
government and then Jeff can take the one on the sales side.
So I think yes as I said in my remarks we expect stronger CNS revenue growth performance in the fourth quarter.
And all of that has to do with the sales trends we've seen in the second and third quarters.
And then as far as the U.K.
government revenue trends go we have 2 things happening.
We have growth coming in from new government contracts we've signed and then we'll have declines from the contracts that were lost last year some time before we even announced the combination with Global.
So I think that as I pointed out was the U.K.
government business will see declines for some more periods.
Some periods being more flattish some being down a little.
And -- but it will from -- on a trend line basis we see that reverting back to growth over the next year.
But we probably still have a couple of quarters where we can see that happening more in a staccato fashion but -- so we have a couple more quarters worth the band [ph] there I would say but nothing like what we saw in the previous quarter.
So there will be declines but at the same time keep in mind we have new growth coming in from new contracts.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Sunit your point being is that the likelihood of seeing another 13% sequential decline seems small from where you guys are today and the other side to that being that actually some point in 2013 you guys think that that could actually start to become a growth component of the business? That's correct.
With respect to the question on bookings Colby our second -- our third quarter sales were pretty comparable to our second quarter sales.
And when I worry about sales every quarter there are things -- the end of the summer is a low time for buying.
Christmas is a low time for buying.
Those are the types of things that come to my mind.
The macroeconomic environment for our enterprise business we have such a low share.
It's about our ability to execute.
Sometimes that macro environment causes our customers to make a transition to switch from one technology to another.
And as a result that actually creates opportunities for us.
So our ability to execute is still the driving factor not the macroeconomic environment when it comes to enterprise customers.
I'd like to make a couple of comments.
First please keep in mind that the decline in U.K.
government is determined by the pace at which the U.K.
government transitions and changes service.
That's hard to predict.
And that's the reason we're unable to predict with precision.
It depends on governmental action.
Our next -- with respect to sales a point we make quite often Jeff and I and Sunit all make is a lesson we learned 3 years ago.
Sales in and of themselves aren't the key.
It's revenue growth that all of us look at which is a complicated matter.
Yet once you sell something you have to turn it up in a predicted interval.
A few years ago we ran into problems and that we've gone through a great deal of effort to make sure that doesn't happen.
The point I'm making is we could increase the number of sales people and we could increase the number of sales very quickly.
Jeff stressed that we continued to add sales people and that we continued to train mentor and work with those sales people to ensure that they produce at a high level.
That is tied directly to our ability to install at a predictable level.
That's why we want to make sure that our ramp in revenues is predictable.
It comes with high degrees of customer service and that's the reason we continue to have comfort that as we add a predictable number of sales people we'll get a predictable amount of sales we'll be able to turn it up in a predictable interval.
We think you're seeing that in our results.
Now life's not completely linear but you can see it in the progress we've made over the last say 4 quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of Ana Goshko of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus on the integration synergies that you've achieved.
As you noted you are tracking ahead on what the original plan was.
I wanted to understand maybe a little bit more tangibly what you've accomplished so far why you were able to exceed the initial plan.
And as we look forward should the slope of the incremental achievement flatten? Or are there certain activities that might kind of result in kind of step functions and cost saves in the next couple of quarters? I'll provide an overall answer and then Jeff or Sunit if you care to comment please do.
I think at the time of the merger we said the estimates that we were making we had confidence in.
That is we attempted to estimate synergies with enough of a margin of safety that we could be confident and comfortable we'd achieve them.
I might add that we've done quite a number of acquisitions and mergers and I don't think there's a single one where we didn't meet our cost targets.
When we had issues a few years ago wasn't making cost targets.
So yes I think we have a lot of confidence in our ability to do so.
The key is to do it without affecting the customer service something you heard us say over and over again and we're going to continue to focus on it.
That's first.
So to be specific we set milestones based on achievement of particular systems particular portal development particular steps that ease the customer experience make it easy to do business with us.
And then we get the cost savings after we've achieved those operational milestones.
So far everything's worked well and we're a bit ahead as scheduled.
But we've got heavy work to do and we're going to put the customer's experience first.
That means some of the achievement of cost synergies might move around a little bit.
Overall we remain comfortable with the targets that we set.
Overall we remain comfortable with the schedule to achieve those targets.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Goldman of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess I wanted to dig into revenue trends a little bit in particular the strength in Latin America with the acceleration on the sequential growth there.
Maybe Jeff if you can give us a little bit better idea of what some of the drivers are.
I know you've rolled out some new services down there in terms of CDN and Vyvx which I think were probably more later in the quarter but also some investments on the data center side.
Are these the types of the things that are driving the acceleration in growth? Or is it just a healthier demand environment down there? And then conversely on the North America side we saw sequential growth slow a little bit from last quarter.
I think you've made some comments on the macro.
We've seen what some of the larger network players have done so far in earnings.
Maybe just put that in context for us in terms of how the bookings may have trended throughout the quarter and what you may be seeing on the North America that would either give you hope that we could accelerate that from here or stay at these levels or possibly even decline further because of the macro.
Sure.
In Latin America the growth is coming from both enterprise and wholesale customers.
Jim said a second ago that life is rarely linear and we see that in our business.
We'll have a good quarter we'll have a softer quarter.
We'll follow it with a good quarter and this was a good quarter for the Latin America team.
It's not necessarily from any particular new service but it's the overall effect of the services that we've offered there.
The overall improvements in reliability and the focus on the customer experience.
And it's the execution of an excellent team focused on our market and focused on growing their business.
In North America the -- looking forward the indicators that I focused on are sales.
If you look at our second quarter sales they're very strong.
If you look at our third quarter sales very strong.
If you look at our churn it's a healthy position.
And so it's up to us now to make sure that we convert those sales into revenue and then to installs.
Sometimes that's easier to do than others depending on when the customer is requesting the service.
If they make -- if we make a sale in September but the customer doesn't want it to go live until January it doesn't go live until January.
But our sales are the leading indicator and our customer experience is the validation point for whether we're continuing to perform on the operations side.
Yes.
And let me emphasize something we point out quite often.
Our larger competitors in their service territories tend to have over 90% market share depending on what you're measuring.
When you have 90% market share macroeconomic conditions determine outcomes.
For Level 3 as Jeff said we have a small percentage in the enterprise market.
We just completed -- updated is a better word a bottoms-up building-by-building assessment of the enterprise market in the United States.
And our estimate is there's a bit over $150 billion spent by enterprises on communication services so the stuff we sell.
If you take a look at our enterprise revenues in the U.S.
and -- maybe I'd put it this way we look forward to having enough market share so macroeconomic conditions affect us.
When we get to 50% 60% we'll worry about macro.
But at a few single-digit percentage we're about taking market share and that is not subject to the overall macroeconomic conditions.
In fact many folks including me think there is some counter-cyclicality.
When things get tough our customers' willingness to listen to what we have to say their willingness to consider more value-creating options goes up.
And we think we're a value-creating choice.
Our next question comes from the line of Donna Jaegers of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones I guess.
On Latin America obviously you guys great quarter.
And you added a lot of data center space I think early in the quarter.
Are you starting to sell into that space? So should we see data center revenue start to move up in the next few quarters? And then a bigger question for you Jim I guess now that you guys are feeling good about Global Crossing and all the integration there what's your outlook for further M&amp;A? While Sunit and Jeff are thinking about your first question we are graced by the presence of our Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Buddy Miller our Vice Chair.
He worries about this all day long.
So Buddy? Yes.
As you know we like the opportunities that M&amp;A present.
We always have and think they -- if they're done right they can really help us grow the company.
But we made clear early on when we announced the Global Crossing acquisition that it was a significant one for us makes a significant change in the company.
We had issues in the past when we maybe piled on a little more M&amp;A at once than we should've and we're going to be very careful about it.
But I would say in terms of worries about breaking the machine if we did an acquisition we're nearing the time when that's not constrained.
We're either there or nearly there because in working on M&amp;A deals they take a long time to get done.
So at this stage I'm less worried about breaking the machine than I am just worried about breaking the momentum.
We like the company we've built.
As Jim Jeff and Sunit have said we like the momentum we have.
If we just solidly execute continue to improve our systems and processes customer experience add sales people we like what that can do.
And inevitably even if you -- if there's an M&amp;A project in a different part of the world from our current operations there's some change in focus that's required.
If you don't do an M&amp;A project without affecting the floor where we sit at our own attention.
So that's an additional factor beyond the obvious one we don't even want to anything to mess up the integration that we factor in.
And that's a significant one.
But that said we're -- we've always made clear we're always on the lookout.
We -- even during this time when we had to take a break we've done a lot of evaluations.
We'll continue to do those and we'll do the right -- we'll try to balance the right time and the right level of risk.
So that if we find an opportunity that's just too good to pass up then we'll weigh that against any detriment we think we might have to the operations that we like so much and make the right call.
But we try to be wise about it.
And as I say we start from a point where we like where we are.
We like the fact that we just execute on what we have we have a very good business.
So we'll be very careful about doing anything that takes our eye off that ball.
To emphasize what Buddy said when you like where you are financially operationally like the momentum in the marketplace the hurdle rate for M&amp;A and the margin of safety you're going to demand is going to be higher.
That's our test.
We look at our organic plan and then we plug in an M&amp;A acquisition and see if it creates value.
You've heard the test -- credit enhancing adds free cash flow per share.
We've added one that says we want it to be growth-accretive.
That's pretty high hurdle if you like your current organic plan.
With respect to Donna your question on data centers in Latin America yes we have been investing in data centers there.
It's a big part of our business there.
We think it's a value-add to our customers and we expect revenue growth from the investments we've made.
And Sunit has been accurate say right we're investing disproportionately relatively in Latin America landing stations encouraging growth encouraging metro expansions just because of the sheer size of the opportunity.
Yes.
Yes and we do expect data center revenue growth to continue in Latin America.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Horan of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on Buddy there.
In his comment breaking the machine at what point are you not worried about the integration anymore and you can kind of go full speed ahead with sales? And then a quick follow-up.
Are you talking about sales or M&amp;A? I mean sales we're full speed ahead right now.
Are you talking about sales or M&amp;A? Research Division</strong> Well the question is really for Jeff more on sales.
I know you've been very methodical and made sure that you didn't make any mistakes here.
At what point are you not worried about it anymore? Is it first quarter of next year third quarter of next year? Yes I'd say we are focused on improving our ability to sale -- to sell and adding sales teams and improving the overall effectiveness of that organization.
It's probably another couple quarters before we see the acceleration that we really want to see as we maintain our search delivery capabilities and make sure that we're synced in the whole operations of the organization.
But we're not holding back on sales now.
We just think that all the efforts we're making are going to take a few quarters to really take hold.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Buddy with the Sprint transaction with Softbank do you think the government might look at some of the national security issues with their long-distance network and they might be forced to maybe sell that business or look at a restructuring there? As you know we don't speculate about our own M&amp;A.
And even more so we don't speculate about others.
So I'm sorry I can't trust that one.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then maybe just last.
Sunit the stock compensation is -- it looks like it's going to be up 40% year-over-year.
What's driving that? And what kind of trends you expect in the next couple of years? Well I mean I think you know that our stock comp plan is based upon several legs.
We've got a regular bonus plan for the year we have our normal stock-based plans and we also have the MRIP that we -- or the management retention incentive program that we talked about in our proxy statement earlier.
So it's really some of those 3 things.
So I think this is a good level for us.
And then it so happens in the third quarter is also the annual grants for our stock-based plans so you're seeing some of that.
I think the best thing to do as I pointed out in my remarks is look at the average per quarter and that's the run rate for us probably be a little better than that next year I would say.
But it's just to some levels.
I'd emphasize that management incentive program which is disclosed in our various documents as we obviously account for as we go but it's heavily dependent on actual performance.
We've gotten a lot of commentary from investors about the shareholder-friendly nature of that program.
I encourage anybody that's interested to look at the specifics as actual target EBITDA payouts et cetera.
So it has a lot of information at least about our management and things useful [ph] for future.
We have a question from the line of Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jim you mentioned the 2% sequential revenue growth CNS target.
You've increased your CNS growth from 0.7% to 1.1%.
It's going to increase again in the fourth quarter.
What is the bridge from Q4 to that 2% and if that's something you think we might see at some point during 2013? Well now Simon you're looking for 2013 guidance.
And as you know we try to do that at the end of the year.
I'd also say that linearity is not a feature of very many financial enterprises.
I would say we are more and more comfortable that we will achieve that target.
And for those who don't follow that closely that's a milestone not a destination where we stop.
What we've simply said is we'd like to get back to the 2% we were at before the merger.
And the reason that it's so critical is the comments that Jeff made earlier we've got a big system a big platform that has to stay synchronized for making offers to selling to order entry service delivery service management billing customer care all -- that is a very large workflow and we need to keep that synchronized.
So we want to do it in a methodical way.
As to when we get there we're not going to give you a specific.
We will say we will get there and we feel good about our progress.
I'd also add one last comment.
Keep this -- for those who wonder about the size of the effort we're at 1.2% churn.
If we make it simple and say that's 15% annualized which isn't exactly right but close enough.
And we get to 2% a quarter we'll call that 8%.
That means we're adding 23% and turning up 23% of our revenue each year.
We're at already about 19% [indiscernible] or we're at 1%.
We just have to go from 19% to 23%.
That isn't something we haven't done before.
That isn't a huge step forward.
The market's there quite obviously.
Customers want to buy from us quite obviously.
We just need to make sure we never forget that satisfied customers are what enable us to do that and it's the customer experience that keeps more and more customers buying.
With that the conference call is ended.
Thanks very much.
Operator that's the end.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Have a great day everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday February 12 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Valerie Finberg Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Crowe Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Storey President and Chief Operating Officer; Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Buddy Miller Vice Chairman.
Before we get started as a reminder our press release and the presentation slides that accompany this call as well as our detailed supplemental schedules are all available in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor Statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 4Q '12 earnings presentation which says that information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Finally please note that on today's call and in the earnings presentation we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available in the press release and presentation which are posted on our website at www.level3.com.
I will now turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Valerie.
In our prepared remarks today as is our norm Sunit Patel our CFO will discuss financial results for the quarter and the outlook for 2012.
Jeff Storey will then discuss operational matters including segment results provide an update on the status of integration planning and implementation some general comments about customer service pricing and other operational matters.
I'll then provide a summary and we'll take questions.
Sunit? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Before we discuss the highlights for the quarter which can be found on Slide 3 of our presentation I'd like to review our outlook metrics for 2012.
We expected and delivered sequential CNS revenue growth each quarter in 2012 and our performance strengthened in the fourth quarter as we said they would.
We projected capital expenditures to be about 12% of total revenues for the year and we ended up at 11.7%.
Also free cash flow for the second through fourth quarters in the aggregate was positive $48 million in line with our outlook.
However we fell short of our adjusted EBITDA outlook.
As noted in our press release adjusted EBITDA was $1.459 billion for the full year but included $27 million of onetime net benefit.
Excluding that benefit we grew 18% for the full year 2012 compared to our targeted 20% to 25% growth.
In the press release we also noted other smaller items that negatively impacted adjusted EBITDA in the quarter by $15 million.
While we did a good job achieving run rate EBITDA synergies those savings were offset by additional expenses in other areas of the business such as network expenses for expansions additions to our sales force and investments in new products and services.
Additionally and specific to the fourth quarter we realized higher-than-expected health care costs entered into a settlement to resolve a long-standing dispute with a large carrier and were affected by Superstorm Sandy all of which amounted to about a $15 million hit to adjusted EBITDA.
Shifting to revenue on Slide 4.
Core Network Services revenue grew to $1.424 billion primarily as a result of a strong enterprise growth of 2.2% sequentially and 7.8% year-over-year both on a constant currency basis.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue enterprise CNS revenues grew 9.4% from 1 year ago on a constant currency basis.
On a regional basis North America CNS revenue grew 1.4% sequentially and 4.9% on a year-over-year constant currency basis.
In EMEA CNS revenue increased sequentially growing 0.9% primarily due to a sequential growth of 5.2% in Enterprise.
This quarter U.K.
government revenue grew slightly.
However we do expect this revenue to decline over the first half of 2013.
Year-over-year on a constant currency basis EMEA CNS revenue declined 2.9% which was an improvement compared to the 8.5% year-over-year decline in the third quarter.
Latin America had another strong quarter with CNS revenues growing 4.5% on a constant currency basis compared to the third quarter and 14.1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Quarter-over-quarter enterprise revenue in the region grew 4.2% and wholesale grew 5.6% on a constant currency basis.
Our CDN services revenue grew 18% sequentially.
Compared to the fourth quarter in 2011 CDN revenues grew 34%.
At the end of the quarter CDN continued to represent about 2% of our CNS revenue.
Also voice services and other revenue was $190 million this quarter compared to $195 million in the third quarter of 2012 and $211 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
For the full year also voice and other was $789 million a decline of 12% compared to the full year 2011 pro forma.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the fourth quarter of 2012 CNS revenue churn remained constant this quarter at approximately 1.2%.
Turning to Slide 5.
Our gross margin was relatively flat at 59.4% compared to 59.6% in the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to a slight shift in revenue mix.
Gross margin was up from 58.2% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year 2012 gross margin improved to 59.2% up nicely compared to 58.0% for the full year 2011.
In 2013 we expect continued gross margin expansion.
Excluding noncash compensation expense SG&amp;A expenses were $552 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 which included a $47 million benefit from a reduction in the estimated cost of asset retirement obligations under real estate leases and right-of-way agreements and a $20 million charge for severance and related expenses.
SG&amp;A expenses were $576 million in the third quarter of 2012 and $648 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Noncash compensation expense decreased during the quarter to $33 million about our quarterly average of $34 million for the full year 2012.
For the full year 2012 excluding noncash compensation expense SG&amp;A was $2.315 billion compared to $2.447 billion for the full year 2011.
Included in SG&amp;A were $31 million in integration costs for the fourth quarter 2012 compared to $18 million in the third quarter of 2012.
For the full year 2012 integration costs were $81 million compared to $87 million for the full year 2011.
On Slide 6 adjusted EBITDA was $407 million in the fourth quarter compared to $372 million in the third quarter and $271 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In the fourth quarter we reduced our workforce by approximately 4% which resulted in a $20 million severance charge.
Those severance charges were offset by a $47 million asset retirement obligation adjustment for a net benefit of $27 million to the EBITDA line which brought our adjusted EBITDA from $380 million up to $407 million.
In addition I wanted to mention that we estimate that Superstorm Sandy affected fourth quarter EBITDA by approximately $5 million.
This was a result of both revenue losses and increased expenses.
Sandy also slightly impacts our revenue in the first quarter due to longer delivery timeframes for off-net access circuits in the Northeast.
For the fourth quarter 2012 excluding the net benefit adjusted EBITDA margin was 23.5% compared to 23.4% for the third quarter 2012 and 17.2% in the fourth quarter 2011.
For the full year 2012 excluding the net benefit adjusted EBITDA margin was 22.5% compared to 19.2% for the full year 2011.
During the quarter we achieved an additional $25 million in run rate EBITDA synergies for a total of approximately $190 million of annualized synergies since closing the Global Crossing acquisition.
Total synergy savings consist of approximately $81 million in network expense and $109 million of operating expense savings.
In addition the headcount reductions executed late in the fourth quarter should result in $40 million of additional annualized run rate synergies in 2013.
As a result by the end of the first quarter of this year we will have achieved over $200 million of run rate annualized EBITDA synergy savings.
As a reminder we said we expected to achieve a total of $300 million in annualized run rate EBITDA synergies as a result of the Global Crossing acquisition.
We also indicated that we would be at the $200 million savings mark by the end of the first quarter 2013 and there will be a long tail for the remaining $100 million.
We expect to achieve most of the synergies by the end of this year.
As a result going forward we will not be providing additional disclosure on synergies.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures were $198 million in the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2012 capital expenditures were $743 million and about 12% of total revenue.
As a reminder our goal was to capture $40 million of annualized capital expenditure synergies related to the Global Crossing acquisition.
We achieved the full amount of these synergies early in the year and ahead of schedule.
Turning to Slide 7.
Free cash flow was positive $202 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to negative $157 million for the third quarter and $41 million for the fourth quarter 2011.
The strong cash flow result was driven by better working capital performance lower net cash interest expense improved adjusted EBITDA and lower capital expenditures.
For the full year 2012 free cash flow was negative $165 million an improvement compared to negative $202 million for the full year 2011 pro forma.
Turning to Slide 8.
In October 2012 Level 3 refinancing -- refinanced $1.2 million of existing term loans into a new term loan due 2019 decreasing the spread on the loan by 100 basis points.
We recognized a loss of $50 million in the fourth quarter 2012 as a result of this transaction.
After the close of the quarter we repaid the $172 million of 15% convertible senior notes in full at maturity.
Over the course of last year we completed over $4.5 billion of capital markets transactions.
With the repayments of the 15% converts we have now no significant maturities due until 2015 and have improved our average interest rate to 7.4% from 8.0% in the fourth quarter 2011.
Additionally our pro forma net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio is now at 5.3x compared to 6.3x at the end of last year.
We continue to target a range of 3 to 5x.
We feel good about our improving credit profile maturity schedule and liquidity position and we'll continue to be opportunistic in managing our debt maturities.
As of December 2012 pro forma for the repayment of the $172 million of 15% convertible senior notes our cash balance on hand was $807 million.
As detailed in our earnings press release on the business outlook section we generally expect stronger sequential Core Network Services revenue growth performance in 2013.
In the first half of the year we do expect some headwinds related to our U.K.
government business and other legacy contracts.
Our objective continues to be sustained 2% sequential CNS revenue growth.
We also expect continued low double-digit adjusted EBITDA percentage growth for the full year 2013 compared to the reported full year 2012 adjusted EBITDA of $1.459 billion.
We expect to be free cash flow positive for the full year excluding any interest rate swap obligations.
As of the end of 2012 we had a liability of $56 million related to the interest rate swaps.
Last week the Venezuelan government announced a 32% devaluation of the bolivar effective February 13.
Based on our bolivar cash balance we expect to incur a charge of approximately $22 million or roughly $0.10 per share to the other income line in the first quarter of 2013.
As mentioned in our press release in 2013 we are making some adjustments between our revenue reporting categories to ensure our external disclosure best reflects the business.
A summary of these changes is noted in the earnings press release and you can find a detailed schedule by quarter for 2012 on Pages 12 and 13 of our earnings presentation and in our supplemental schedule which is located on the Level 3 website in the Investor Relations section on the Quarterly Financials page.
In summary 2012 was a transitional year for the company as we worked through integrating the Global Crossing acquisition.
We made a lot of progress but fell short of our adjusted EBITDA target and this has ramifications on 2013 performance.
Having said that we have a high level of confidence and predictability in the business as we enter 2013 and expect better revenue performance and continued double-digit adjusted EBITDA growth.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
Good morning everyone.
Before I get into the details I wanted to take a moment to summarize our results from 2012.
We completed a number of milestones in support of integration last year and I'll review the details of those accomplishments in a moment.
As we said when we announced the Global Crossing acquisition our primary objectives were to maintain the excellent customer service model we'd worked hard to build over previous years and to continue to grow our CNS revenue.
In support of these objectives we indicated we would take a milestone-based approach to achieving synergies taking costs out of the business when we hit certain milestones rather than on a predetermined timeline.
We believe this approach has served us well over the past year as our customer satisfaction scores have improved and we grew CNS revenue throughout the year.
The percent of customers who are satisfied or very satisfied increased year-over-year as did customers who agree or strongly agree that they are not only likely to purchase or buy more from Level 3 but are also willing to recommend Level 3 services to others in the marketplace.
While we were focused on attaining synergies as we reached milestones throughout the year we were also investing for future growth of our business.
After larger-than-expected turnover in the sales force in the first couple of quarters of 2012 we've been adding steadily to our quota-bearing headcount since the second half of the year.
We've continued to add building store network and invest in our product portfolio to support growth particularly in the enterprise market.
We believe these investments position us well for growth in 2013 and beyond.
Turning to our results.
First please note all figures provided in my remarks are on a constant currency basis.
Core Network Services revenue strengthened again this quarter primarily as a result of the continued growth in our enterprise business which grew 7.8% year-over-year or 9.4% excluding the U.K.
government business.
This represents the success in our transition over the last 4 years to become an industry-leading enterprise company.
In the fourth quarter enterprise revenue grew in every region across the company.
Wholesale CNS revenue grew sequentially but declined slightly year-over-year.
Our results this quarter are generally reflective of our overall opportunity we see in the market given our low share in the enterprise market and our larger share in the wholesale market.
In enterprise there are multiple reasons why we gain share.
We are winning customers who want a one-stop shop to handle all of their enterprise networking needs and a single contact they can depend on our broad product portfolio and our model of having dedicated local account managers for our customers gives them what they need from their communications partner.
With our global footprint we're winning the business of multinational customers headquartered in one of our regions but with communications needs in other regions.
We're winning business from content companies who want a scalable reliable provider to distribute their content online.
With the launch of our managed security services we're winning business by meeting the needs of CIOs across the globe who are concerned about protecting the integrity of their data worldwide.
The list goes on and as you can see from our results that we are making progress in taking share in the enterprise channel.
The opportunity in wholesale is somewhat different.
In general the wholesale market is more mature and faces headwinds due to continued consolidation.
That said we see opportunities to support wireless carriers to meet their continuously growing need for bandwidth to support wireless data and delivering ethernet and other enterprise grade solutions to cable companies and carriers as they pursue their own growth strategies.
While wholesale CNS revenue declined slightly in 2012 over the long term we believe we can maintain or grow Wholesale revenue in the low single-digit percentage range on an annualized basis.
Moving to our regional results.
And beginning with North America both wholesale and enterprise grew about 1.5% sequentially.
Large enterprise mid-market enterprise and content all contributed to growth this quarter.
Government revenue was down slightly due to fluctuations in professional services contracts from the third to fourth quarter but continues to be a great growth opportunity for the company.
During the quarter we named Andrew Crouch as the Regional President for North America.
Andrew has a long history with Level 3 and has been leading our North America sales teams for the past couple years.
We also announced combining all of our enterprise channels under Karl Strohmeyer.
Karl has been the driving force behind our resurgence in the mid-market enterprises and we expect we'll have greater success with an all-enterprise-focused sales organization.
Our wholesale sales team has been moved to Gary Breauninger.
Gary is a very talented executive we gained through the Global Crossing acquisition.
He is already reenergizing the wholesale sales team.
The Latin America business grew again this quarter with strong sequential and double-digit year-over-year growth in both wholesale and enterprise.
In particular we saw strong demand for IT and managed services.
The fourth quarter is generally strong for Latin America which tends to dip back down in what is usually a seasonally weak first quarter.
We are pleased with our market position and the quality of our network and congratulate Hector Alonso and his team in Latin America.
We saw growth in EMEA CNS revenue this quarter which grew 0.9% sequentially primarily due to strong growth in the enterprise channel.
Additionally we saw slight growth in the U.K.
government revenue.
However I want to caution that we continue to expect declines in the 2 large contracts that were lost prior to the announcement of the Global Crossing acquisition.
For those of you who may remember the SPC contract Level 3 inherited as part of the WilTel acquisition we did a great job in extending the revenue from that contract in fact longer than most expected.
The U.K.
government contract situation is very similar.
The good news is that we've been able to maintain revenue and cash flow longer from these 2 contracts than expected though we will continue to face headwinds as those contracts decline.
Together these 2 contracts generated about $8 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and we expect these contracts to be fully transitioned off the Level 3 network by the middle of this year.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 CNS sales were up year-over-year but roughly flat compared to the third quarter.
As I mentioned before we continue adding to our quota-bearing headcount and it generally takes about 9 months for new sales reps to become fully productive.
Turning to the results by product group.
As we continued to be successful in the enterprise markets we are seeing a shift from our historical product mix.
Strong demand and revenue growth in ethernet and VPN services from our enterprise customers led our growth in IP and data services.
Colocation and data center services also experienced strong growth in the quarter.
In surveys across multiple industries protecting against security threats is the top concern for our customers.
Our position as a worldwide leader in Internet services and an expert in the technologies that drive and secure the internet give us unique insights into the global threat landscape.
Applying the capabilities we use to protect the overall security of the Internet to a specific customer's needs is a very natural extension of our capabilities.
While small today the results of our managed security launch last quarter reinforces our view of the need in the market and the acceptance of Level 3 as a leader in network security.
CNS voice services revenue was up this quarter partially driven by intercarrier compensation charges which tend to be lumpy.
Moving to pricing.
As we closed out 2012 and are now 1 month into 2013 we continue to see little change in the pricing environment.
As we've said in the past generally pricing for metro services and enterprise services continues to be favorable.
Pricing for high-speed IT CDN and point-to-point wavelength services for ultra-long-haul routes continues to be more aggressive compared to the rest of our services although we have seen CDN pricing moderate somewhat in recent quarters.
Our combination of a large IT backbone with a large and sophisticated CDN gives us the ability to match the appropriate network to the traffic needs of our customers.
I'd like to take a moment to recap our progress on integration.
Overall we have -- while we have additional systems and process work ahead of us this year we are operating as one company.
The first initiative in achieving this milestone was integrating the Global Crossing and Level 3 sales teams including developing and implementing comprehensive sales training to ensure our go-to-market model is well understood across the sales force.
More broadly across the company by implementing common platforms terminology and processes the culture of our 2 companies came together over the past year.
This may sound straightforward but this can be a difficult issue when merging 2 large companies especially with a long history of competing against each other.
Today we have a unified workforce at Level 3.
We also completed much of the blocking and tackling to integrate our systems and processes last year including establishing a global platform for trouble ticketing consolidating our RPU systems for North America and EMEA and are well on the path to integrating our quoting system.
Additionally a big part of any integration process is determining which systems to decommission.
In 2012 we retired more than 300 systems between Level 3 and Global Crossing.
We have many more systems targeted for 2013.
With the progress we made on the integration milestones last year in 2013 we are focused on increasing the efficiency of our processes throughout the company and building a platform for growth.
We believe this will facilitate our ability to operate at scale in the enterprise business.
Whether through further shortening the time from quote to cash or better enabling our customers to order and manage their services through our portals all of these initiatives center around improving the customer experience as we believe the ease of doing business with Level 3 has been and will be a driver in revenue growth.
The same efforts lay the foundation to continue to take costs out of the business.
We have a very disciplined and rigorous approach to cost management for 2013.
Looking at the opportunities in 2013 with the investments we made last year our sales teams are particularly excited about our ability to take share from our competitors and grow with our customers.
We believe we have the right assets products and people to continue to grow and we are optimistic about the opportunity ahead.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Jim.
Thanks.
As usual Sunit and Jeff have done a fine job summarizing this past quarter and the coming year.
Last quarter I said that we need to keep doing what we have been doing; that is we don't need to change course or trajectory we just need to maintain our current operational and financial momentum.
This quarter we saw more evidence supporting this statement.
We saw improvement in quarterly CNS revenue growth rate from 1.1% to 1.8%.
And in particular our year-over-year enterprise CNS growth rate of approximately 8% was particularly strong.
As Sunit said we expect trend line growth to accelerate this coming year and we're particularly pleased with the approximately $200 million of free cash we generated in the quarter.
As both Jeff and Sunit emphasized the key to our continuing future improvement just as it was in 2012 is to continue to expand our net addressable market by adding on-net buildings at high rates of return on the capital expended; adding salespeople at a steady predictable rate; continuing to provide the kind of excellent service Jeff described both during the service installation process and afterwards; and to continue to add to our portfolio of advanced services as we did last year with a particularly important set of managed security products.
This past year gives us confidence that we'll continue to be able to accomplish each of these key matters.
That means as we've emphasized accelerating top line growth while simultaneously expanding both gross and EBITDA margins.
Operator that ends our prepared remarks and would you please describe the Q&amp;A process? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First Sunit nice job on the deleveraging continuing to get close to that target leverage.
You've got a very strong liquidity position and limited maturities in the near-term.
What do you think is the right sort of cash balance here? And are we going to continue to see you take out or extend some of these maturities during the year? And maybe a question for Jim as well.
Is there an opportunity here to do more M&amp;A now that you've sort of got the bulk of the Global Crossing integration behind you? I know you've talked about looking at things overseas in the past.
Yes thank you Simon.
I think -- I mean we're going to keep focused on getting that debt-to-EBITDA leverage down.
I think we feel better about down in the 3 to 4 range versus 3 to 5 range.
So I think that will -- that focus will continue.
Obviously the -- most of that will be driven by strengthening the EBITDA progress.
And I think from a liquidity perspective as we've said in the past we always believe in keeping healthy levels of liquidity.
And typically $500 million or higher balances is what you've seen with us in any quarter you can look at over the last 10 years.
So I think that we'll maintain high levels of liquidity and continue to reduce the leverage driven by EBITDA growth.
And then in terms of taking out maturities as you know the fixed income markets have been very strong.
We're also cautious about what it cost to take out debt in terms of prepayment penalties.
But I think that as we look at the second half of this year we will have opportunities to take some debt out and also reduce cash interest expense going forward.
So we see quite a number of opportunities to do that over the next couple of years which is reducing our annual interest expense.
Jim? Yes I'd just add one thing to what Sunit said.
When we announced the transaction the Global Crossing transaction we identified network expense savings we identified operating expense savings and capital expense savings.
We did not specifically mention interest savings.
It's turned out to be quite a meaningful addition to the cash generated by the combination.
I think Sunit has said previously there's an opportunity to save $100 million to $200 million of interest over a longer term and we're certainly a long ways along that path.
So that's been a real upside to the transaction.
With respect to your question about M&amp;A we have Buddy Miller here who runs the strategy in M&amp;A for the company.
And I'll turn it to him.
Thanks.
Simon you mentioned the use of cash balance for M&amp;A and of course that's always -- that's an opportunity.
Even during this past year there's a couple of small immaterial transactions that we did use cash to purchase one in Europe and one in the U.S.
Actually the one in the U.S.
the cash hasn't flowed out yet.
But we've said all along we wanted to -- our first priority was to make sure we got the companies integrated and that we maintained the level of customer satisfaction that we'd had.
And as Jeff reported we've managed to do that.
We're not declaring integration at an end although internally we're ceasing to use that term.
But I'd say we're broadly to a point where if you factor in the time required to do a major transaction we could look at them.
And we never stop.
And we look at the field for those M&amp;A opportunities all the time.
The investor base and therefore the people on the call probably think North America United States when they ask the M&amp;A question.
But the truth is after the Global Crossing merger we have a global view -- a literally global view of the merger and acquisition universe the possibilities that the platform that we've put together that with a strong concentration in North America Europe South America and undersea cables connecting them already makes us unique in the world in the sense of an end-to-end fiber platform where we can literally carry customers' traffic without it going off of our network.
And without that same emphasis but nonetheless with fiber capacity all the way into Asia and Africa we now see the world differently.
As a -- our business is a global fiber -- a local and global fiber platform.
And we like where we are.
We believe that the -- our ability to grow the business on where we are our ability to just organically add buildings add routes add new routes within a city add new undersea routes is virtually unlimited.
And as Jim mentioned adding those at very high returns.
And just by adding salespeople for the network we have and by organically adding network we have the ability to grow our business in a way that we want to make sure we don't mess up.
We promised we wouldn't mess up the Global Crossing integration but I also promise you we don't want to mess up the good thing we have going.
We believe where we are is a very good thing.
But that said there are opportunities.
And certainly if you look at it globally there are many opportunities.
So we're already looking at those.
Even all along in Latin America we would have been able had we found the right opportunities since there was no 2-company integration to happen down there we could have already done that.
But the right opportunities haven't presented themselves.
But if you look at it globally there are a number of opportunities that will continue to present themselves but we'll be very very careful not to mess up the good thing that we have going.
And to turn it back to the specifics of your question the use of cash.
There's a certain amount of -- as Sunit says we like to keep a lot of cash around.
But certainly for smaller acquisitions it makes it easy for us to just go pay cash and be done with it if we so choose.
For anything larger it's more likely to be a financing but we try to look at that in terms of the financing from our finance co which is the lowest-cost form of financing and that has certain ratios in it for borrowing that would tend to guide to how we would look at a transaction.
So in general we're not going to mess up the good thing we have going.
The thing we have going is global.
But we do expect the industry to continue to consolidate.
It's a scale game.
And it's a scope -- it's a global scope game now.
And we see the platform we've built as the best one as the core of a global business fiber network we'll -- and we'll continue to manage it carefully and look for the right opportunities at the right times.
And Simon as always we're going to target acquisitions that are credit accretive free cash flow per share accretive versus what we're doing today and that help accelerate our growth.
Okay next question.
Our next question is from the line of Ana Goshko with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Sunit if you wouldn't mind I just wanted to clarify what you said on the interest rate swap liability up potentially for this year and as to how it may affect negative free cash flow.
I know you said you had a -- I think you said a $56 million liability as of year-end.
But I wanted to understand if that's a moving target and what you think the range of the liability will be this year.
Yes so this interest rate swap we entered into to fix about $1 billion of floating rate exposure back a number of years ago.
So the obligation yes it's $56 million of the balance sheet.
And those payments go out over the course of this year and next year.
So the only reason we mentioned that as part of the free cash flow guidance gives us the flexibility to choose to settle that obligation this year if we wanted to.
And that's why we except that out from the free cash flow outlook.
And I think in terms of the fluctuation unless interest rates move violently we don't see that fluctuating much.
We only have a little more than 1 year left on that liability so don't see much variation there from interest rate changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like -- let me try to paraphrase that.
So it's a $56 million liability.
So you expect to pay that out over the course of this year is that how we should think about it? Well no I think what I said is that the payments are due over the course of this year and next year.
We might decide to settle the entire thing this year which is why we mentioned that specifically.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if you settle it this year it would be the $56 million number; is that how we should think about that? Well yes -- well it changes every quarter.
But yes if we settled it today it would be in that range yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so based upon your guidance commentary for free cash flow do you think that is a potential swing factor on whether you could be positive or negative free cash flow this year? No I think we say we are positive.
So I think that's pretty firm.
This was just large enough and dealt with some payments that are due next year which is why we excepted this out.
So I don't think this -- I mean as we said we'd be -- excepting that we generally expect to be free cash flow positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I have just a quick follow-up.
So on the revenue from CNS that has been moved to -- onto wholesale voice generally has that been like slower growth relative to your CNS trajectory? So should we expect the movement of that revenue to wholesale voice to be a factor that would kind of heighten your pace of growth in 2013 for CNS? No I don't believe so.
In fact the reason -- one of the reasons we provided the same -- the new format going back by quarter in 2012 you will note that the CNS revenue growth they -- no difference literally quarter-by-quarter if you look at the sequential growth on what we reported in the old format versus what you would have seen in the new format.
This was just -- this just had to do with aligning the customer base which are resellers and the product we are selling to them in the right categories.
Over the course of 2012 we did a pretty detailed effort of matching revenues and costs by geography by product making sure the customers are put in the right place.
And as you know we don't make these kind -- we only make these kind of changes once a year so as not to chance the mark every quarter.
So that's all it was.
But you can confirm what I just said by looking at the disclosure we provided.
The CNS revenue growth in 2012 there's no -- literally no difference between the old format and the new format.
This is just a realignment.
Our next question is from the line of Chris Larsen with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about the integration how you're doing in terms of -- are the systems already there for inventory delivery and billing and a little bit on that? And then you talked a little bit about hiring some new sales folks.
Maybe talk about how the productivity ramp is going there and how we should expect that to feather in throughout 2013.
Yes the -- with respect to integration we are operating today as one integrated company.
We're -- our customers are ordering services we're going to market as an integrated company.
We do have a number of systems that we're continuing to consolidate across our business associated with Level 3 prior to the acquisition associated with the company subsequent to the acquisition of Global Crossing.
And inventory delivering and billing and other systems are a part of that going-forward platform that we're going -- we're continuing to build.
But today we're taking orders from services we're turning up the services we're tracking them in inventory systems that are in place and operating quite effectively for what we're doing today.
With respect to sales.
We continue to add salespeople over the -- over 2013.
We want to get into a steady cadence of adding a handful of salespeople each and every month so that we grow our sales force in a predictable fashion.
And as I said it generally takes 9 months or more to get somebody up to speed.
And we believe that that's an important -- we have plenty of addressable market and having enough salespeople to take advantage of that addressable market is important for our growth going forward.
Yes this is Jim.
I'd comment on integration maybe at a summary level.
Over the last 20 25 years I've been involved in quite a number of acquisitions and integrations.
I've integrated and been integrated.
So I've achieved synergies and been synergized.
And at least from my view this -- to date this integration has gone better than any I've been involved with.
I think if you talk to the people and we had roughly the same number of employees 5 500 for both organizations you'd hear that same sort of thing.
And I think it's due to in no small part to what Jeff said we ensured that we had data process system and people milestones completed before we achieve synergy.
Now before we cut costs.
Now that affects -- as Sunit said we incurred costs this quarter for cost-cuts that could have taken place earlier or later.
They took place this quarter because we thought they -- that we were in a position to do so.
That means we're the -- achieving cost synergies in the short term which affects short-term fluctuations up and down is subjugated to customer service.
And we are convinced that's the right approach.
We're convinced that we're going to benefit our shareholders are going to benefit from the kind of customer satisfaction we see.
That's only going to mean more and more sales over time.
So on a summary level I think I'd be comfortable saying this has gone as well or better than any I've been involved with.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi Investment Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple if I could.
First could you just give us an update specifically on how many salespeople that you ended the quarter with and your plans to grow that for 2013? And then secondly if you can give us a little bit more specificity.
You mentioned some of the challenges that wholesale revenue is facing because of consolidation.
Can you be more specific in terms of the type of revenue exposure and products from those risks and maybe some other detail on the products and the size of the products where you're growing wholesale revenue? Yes do you have the specifics on sales force? Here it is.
Let's see.
We ended the year with 998 quota-bearing headcount.
We have another I'm going to say 400 quota-bearing sales engineers who support that 1 000 quota-bearing headcount.
The -- with respect to your question how do we want to end 2013? At least that's how I interpreted.
We'd like to add a fixed amount.
Now this is subject to getting qualified people but somewhere in the range of 10 or 15 let's say salespeople a month.
Now that's a net number.
Remember we are losing salespeople at the bottom quartile.
Every organization does.
Those who don't perform or those who think they have opportunities elsewhere will leave.
And in our case that's sub-20% but in that kind of range of the sales force.
So net it's a pretty big number each month that we hire.
It's subject to finding quality people.
The good news is they're available.
Some of our larger competitors are moving more and more aggressively to wireless and other services and that has created a big pool of very very well-qualified experienced and well-trained salespeople.
But that's the kind of target.
Now why do we want to add a fixed amount? Because the whole of the organization keys around that the production out of the salespeople.
Our service delivery our processes our systems our off-net ordering are all out into the future dependent on the production out of a certain number of salespeople.
So hopefully that answers your question with respect to salespeople.
When it comes to the wholesale challenges that we face in the market first of all we have a relatively large market share in wholesale and that contributes part of it.
Secondly there's been a lot of consolidation and as people consolidate networks they move more to self provisioning.
We do see a lot of opportunity in selling our optical wave services and our ethernet services and our enterprise networking services to carriers and cable companies that are needing to be able to buy those domestically and across the globe.
So we'll continue to focus there.
We also see a lot of opportunity with wireless carriers and continuing to support their business and in particular the wireless data business that they're trying to grow.
And so we still see opportunities in wholesale but it's -- we have a large market share to begin with and there is consolidation factors in it.
So looking out a little further in the future.
We had our wholesale sales conference what 2 weeks ago where all of our wholesale quota-bearing salespeople and supporting staff got together.
There is a very big opportunity and it's one that we're organizing to take advantage of to sell to carriers globally carriers who have the A end or make a sale in the U.S.
or in Latin America or in Europe and need a partner if you would to terminate at the other end.
I personally have had quite a few discussions around that.
I think we're going to see that as a big big opportunity.
But it's -- it was created by the combination of Global Crossing and Level 3 and it's one that I think we'll see play out over the next year or 2.
I should also note that we had really healthy wholesale growth in both the U.S -- or North America and LatAm this quarter and that's a very encouraging thing.
But there simply isn't another network like ours.
We need to gear up to make sure we can deliver excellent customer service but we're getting there.
And I think we got a unique opportunity to sell that global platform not just to large enterprises but to service providers.
Our next question is from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> First off just a point of clarification going back to the free cash flow.
I just wanted to get an understanding.
It sounds like the free cash flow guidance if you back out the interest rate swaps is that you don't expect free cash to be greater -- free cash flow positive greater than $56 million.
So I just wanted to make sure I understand that.
And then if that's true it just seems a little bit low particularly when you look at the interest expense which I think is lower than what people were expecting.
So I'm just wondering if you can kind of explain that.
And then the other question I had was just on EBITDA guidance for 2013.
You acknowledge that you missed your expectations for 2012.
I'm just trying to understand when you think about your guidance for 2013 how you're thinking about it differently than perhaps you went about guidance when you sat back about 1 year ago and thought about it for 2012 particularly when you think about your expectations for growth this year the additional synergies that you're expecting and then also the ramp in the sales force that you're expecting.
Just so we can get some sense of confidence with that guidance.
Sure.
So on the free cash flow guidance no it's not the interest rate swap.
As I said the -- some of the payments extend into 2013 which is why we report it out.
But if you look through the EBITDA cash interest expense and CapEx obviously there continues to be a lot of movement in the working capital line.
Last year if you look at the balance sheet receivables were a use of cash payables were a source of cash.
And as we pointed out we think that we need to continue to shorten the timelines with which we pay suppliers so you'll see payables being a use of cash this year.
Receivables should be a source of cash as we continue to bring in the amount of days to collect payments from our customers So I think you'll see some fluctuation there.
Also I'll note we've said in the last -- over the last year we'll continue to have residual obligations from the Global Crossing combination with respect to legal and tax litigation settlements.
So some of that flows through the free cash flow line.
But no the interest rate swap excepting that out doesn't -- isn't meant to in any way signify that we are capped here or there at $56 million or any other number.
It has to do with the fact that we're also pulling in payments from next year into this year.
If we decide to settle that this year it gives us that flexibility.
On the EBITDA guidance I think there are really 2 keys driving EBITDA growth: one is revenue growth and the second is synergies.
As I noted I think that we'll continue to do a good job on synergies but also we've added expenses in areas that we think promote our long-term sustained revenue growth objective of sort of 2% CNS sequential growth.
And I think we were not shy about also making those investments to position us better to pull ahead from our peers.
And I would note that if you look at our enterprise revenue growth we are doing quite a bit better than anyone that you want to compare us to.
In terms of the guidance itself as I pointed out I mean the key thing is we have set -- we set an objective of getting to 2% CNS revenue growth rate.
Obviously while we made progress towards that in 2012 we're not yet there so that continues to be the key focus.
With the kind of operating leverage and incremental margins we have obviously how we do on revenue growth can swing your EBITDA a fair bit.
And then on the cost side to sum that up had the synergies but also incurred other costs.
We are growing our sales force quite nicely as I indicated introducing new products like our security product that we highlighted last quarter and efforts like that that we think pay off well in terms of our long-term brand and franchise.
So I think that was really the only comments I would make on the -- with respect to EBITDA guidance.
Our next question is from the line of Donna Jaegers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 small questions I guess.
On the ARO benefit can you give us a little more detail around that? Is that leases that you have definitely gotten out of? And then the second question is on the U.K.
enterprise side.
Your growth looks very -- that's very -- very great growth there and I was just curious what you're seeing longer-term there.
Sure.
So on the ARO that has to do with whenever we enter into a real estate lease or right-of-way agreements we have to estimate what it would cost us to exit the lease at the end of the lease and then present value back what the liability we should accrue on the balance sheet.
And I think as we come through all of the real estate obligations including the Global Crossing ones and thinking about where we're going to stay or keep and what percent of the facilities we would stay in even after the lease renewal based on our historical performance came to the conclusion that we were over-accrued on the liability with respect to real estate exit cost obligations.
And similarly on right-of-ways with -- and this has to do with our conduits.
So as we looked at that in our balance sheet review is -- in our estimate we were over-accrued and that's what you saw.
That's why I said it's a onetime benefit for decreasing liabilities on the balance sheet.
With respect to U.K.
government keep in mind that there are 2 components of the U.K.
government.
They are legacy contracts that Jeff indicated were $8 million of revenue in the quarter.
And the other U.K.
government is other business we do.
We continue to add sales force to our U.K.
government sales channel and they are continuing to sell.
But I think I'll just go back to what Jeff said which is these things are not linear.
At the end of the day we do expect the U.K.
government business to go away.
In terms of the legacy contracts we still have an active and thriving U.K.
government business to various branches of the U.K.
government and we'll see most of that paying over the first couple of quarters of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Sorry maybe I misspoke.
I'm not...
With respect to U.K.
-- Donna with respect to U.K.
enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Right that's what my question...
Oh I'm sorry I didn't...
That's the result of a deliberate effort.
I think when we merged with Global Crossing we said we had work to do in the U.K.
and you're seeing the results.
We said at the time that the network that we acquired in the U.K.
went to effectively every major location throughout the U.K.
And we've worked hard.
Buddy mentioned an acquisition that we did a smaller one that was -- we acquired in effect the network in a lot of buildings in the Docklands area of London.
So -- and we continue to add buildings at as fast a pace as we can.
And that's opened up more and more markets.
We hire more salespeople.
In addition we've had some good success selling global capabilities.
We've had more than -- a number of global multinationals who are headquartered in the U.K.
buy from us.
We're pretty excited about it.
It's not going to be linear but that's our effort.
We want to do in the U.K.
what we've done here in the U.S.
that is more and more emphasis on on-net enterprise sales and we're making some progress.
Yes I'm sorry I thought -- I didn't hear you right Donna.
But as Jim pointed out I think the EMEA enterprise revenue base is driven by the U.K.
but we've also seen success in Germany.
The growth is over 9% year-over-year so that's been a success story for us in EMEA.
And in terms of building adds what Jim pointed out we've literally gone from a standing start of 0 in 2010 '11 added 50 buildings.
At 2012 we added 100 locations on that in EMEA.
And so it's been a good success story for us.
Yes these are big facilities.
They're not small office buildings.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Goldman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to revisit the question Sunit on EBITDA guidance.
And trying to take into context everything that you guys have said today on the call and in the release about accelerating revenue growth.
You're getting some benefits of some incremental synergies tied to the force reductions in 4Q.
And when I sort of run that through back of the envelope it looks to me like the expectation based on where your EBITDA guidance are would be for very low incremental margins.
And obviously we have to make our own assumptions on the revenue side of things but we do have some guidance to go by there.
So just trying to understand is this a business where you guys think that you can still get the 60% incremental margins? Or are some of the initiatives you have about network expansion sales force expansion that you've talked about a bit maybe driving that a bit lower in the near-term in order to drive growth going forward? Yes.
So I think in terms of the incremental EBITDA margins we're well over 100% this year.
Obviously synergy driven.
I think if you -- happy to talk to you separately but if you look at just the EBITDA guidance even for next year again it's well well over 60%.
So no we don't see anything to change that.
We've got huge amounts of operating leverage.
I think the incremental EBITDA margin should be north of 60% for some time yet because you do get a tailwind from some of the synergies but I think even if you were to take out the synergies.
Now keep in mind when we say annualized run rate synergies that is on a run rate basis.
When you actually look back for the quarter that number is smaller if you look at it incrementally.
But no the operating leverage is intact.
And when we look at net gross margins of new sales -- orders from new orders and continuing long-term benefits we see in terms of optimizing network expenses and SG&amp;A expense as we've said in the past due to these acquisitions we still have a lot of long cycle costs like real estate leases.
As they peel off you can keep reducing the expense continued network optimization.
So yes nothing distracting us from 60-plus percent incremental EBITDA margins.
Now let me underline that twice.
We still continue to a target it's not a hope it's a target 4 out of 5 locations that we sell to will be on-net.
That's why we're putting so much energy into expanding our footprint locally not just in North America but in EMEA and in LatAm.
That 80% gross margin becomes more and more important in a world where fewer and fewer communications company control local access.
And we intend expect and have a plan to make sure we're one of them we control our own local access.
That's essential.
And that's been rock-solid for years now.
I'll underline what Sunit said.
Setting aside quarterly fluctuations severance charges change in trajectory of hiring salespeople we are very comfortable with $0.15 to $0.20 of operating expense per incremental dollar of revenue.
Our next question is from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Looking -- I've been looking at the sales force can you comment -- I think recently you've made some overtures in increasing your use of the indirect sales channels.
What's sort of the mix you're targeting from that group and when do we start to see that impact? And then with the sales growth you mentioned you have the target number that you're -- of folks you're looking to add each quarter.
Is that going to be sort of ratably spread across the various regions or is it mostly North America or are you trying to over-index in Latin America? Or how should we think about that? With respect to the indirect I don't know the exact percentage but it's less than 10% of our sales.
It's a great growth side of our business though.
We've done very well in enabling our indirect channels.
We're going to continue to focus on that by building systems and portals and interfaces into our company.
We think that's an excellent way to force-multiply our sales force by bringing a very large sales force of indirect agents on and indirect resellers on so that we can grow our sales.
But right now it's still less than 10% somewhere in that range.
As far as the 10 to 15 net people that we want to add every month it'll be distributed across the various regions kind of pro forma maybe not exactly but roughly distributed across the regions.
Yes that's the...
Yes we're shooting for about 10-plus percent.
And if we can digest it maybe up to 15% but about a 10-plus percent growth in the sales force every year which translates roughly about 10 net adds every month.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a target for what percentage that you'd like to see of your overall sales coming from indirect? Or is it just sort of take it and see how it comes? So let me -- I met with a group in -- happened to be on the West Coast that included quite a number of our indirect channels.
And we want to have as many indirect channels as is effective and doesn't create channel conflicts for those indirects or for ourselves.
That's -- those are words -- well let me explain.
A particular indirect channel that I spent some time with have great expertise in meeting the specific needs of larger law firms.
So they take what we do and wrap it with additional services additional security certain cloud-based things that are of value to law firms.
That's a big value-add that it's unlikely we would do.
And that same thing is true in health care and other verticals.
The reason it's difficult to answer your question with precision is because over time it's hard to say who will develop what capability to add on top of our own capability.
And right now I'd say for the foreseeable future that 10% or less is a pretty good estimate.
But the world is changing.
And I know it's an overused term but cloud call it virtualized server-based services which depend on what we do for a living.
What we do for a living is essential you can't offer those kinds of services are a big big deal.
And entrepreneurs across the country are developing these sorts of vertical add-ons that make a lot of sense on top of what we do.
So who knows what it's going to look like 3 years from now.
For the next couple -- 10 or less is the right answer.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Funk with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 really quick ones.
First to clarify the EBITDA guidance for 2013.
I mean it feels to me as if the guidance is really based off this projected step-down in revenue in 1Q.
So a lower stepping off point maybe helps us get there.
If you can just clarify if that's correct.
And then kind of a broader question.
You commented earlier about trying to accelerate the quote to cash window.
Maybe if you could provide some more I guess tangible discussion of how you're doing that and where you expect that to actually decrease to in the next year or so.
Okay I'll take the EBITDA guidance and Jeff can take the quote to cash.
But I think on the step-off point I mean as you know fourth quarter to first quarter is always a weaker comparison for us.
Fourth quarter is seasonally strong for us for various reasons that we've talked about in the past.
So no surprise there.
I think the only slight difference this time is last year we had regulatory charges or USF charges going up from Q4 to Q1.
This time they are going down a little.
So I think -- and then as far as EBITDA in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter keep in mind we have higher payroll taxes in the first quarter.
So again these comparisons are typical from the past.
But I think really the main thing is we were off on a run rate basis in the fourth quarter which annualized into 2013 has an impact to that as I mentioned.
Other than that it's just continuing to drive CNS revenue growth the kind of incremental margins that we've talked about.
We certainly see that.
And following through on the leftover integration pieces that Jeff talked about and making sure we do a good job of that and continue to drive efficiencies and productivity.
So it's really a combination of those 2 things plus the run rate miss in Q4 which translates on an annualized basis in 2013.
Michael with respect to quote to cash.
Our intervals depend on a number of things whether they're what the product is on-net off-net geography.
And so rather than talk about averages with respect to intervals let me talk about what we're doing to improve that quote to cash process and reduce our intervals to where we can continue to be leading the industry in that area.
Quoting.
Historically we've had multiple quoting systems.
We want to move all of our products into a single quoting system that positions our salesperson very effectively to get quotes out to customers in a timely fashion quotes that are right the first time quotes that are winning quotes for the business so that we shorten that cycle.
We want to make it easy for the sales rep to promote the quote to an order and then flow into the downstream systems where the order just automatically shows up on a service delivery desk and the service delivery people start working it.
We'll continue to work on our interfaces with off-net providers and improving the ability for an off-net provider to turn up the circuit in the timeframe that we want.
And so managing the whole flow all the way from the quoting process through our service delivery through our internal provisioning process managing off-net vendors when we need to and then making sure that the billing keeps up with all of the changes in that upstream process.
And so we're very focused on building a platform for growth that will enable us to continue to win greater and greater enterprise business and enterprise solutions.
Okay.
Operator that's the end of the call.
Thank you all very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a good day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday April 25 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Valerie Finberg Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Buddy Miller Vice Chairman.
To accompany today's call you can find the presentation slides press release and supplemental schedules in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at www.level3.com.
During our discussions of revenue results today we will be comparing this quarter's results to prior periods.
Unless otherwise noted all revenue comparisons to prior periods are provided on a constant currency basis.
I also want to mention that on our fourth quarter 2012 earnings call we noted that we were making some adjustments to our revenue reporting disclosure beginning with this quarter.
The revenue results will be -- we'll discuss today are based on this new disclosure.
For a prior period comparison please see the supplemental schedules on our website.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 1Q '13 earnings presentation which says that information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Finally please note that on today's call and in the earnings presentation we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available in the press release and the presentation which are posted on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for the call.
First of all let me say how excited I am to be the CEO of Level 3.
It is truly a great company and I believe we have great opportunities in front of us.
Before we get started I'd like to take a moment to thank Jim Crowe for his leadership as the CEO for the last 15 years.
On behalf of the entire company we're grateful for his vision his passion his drive not only for Level 3 but how his leadership helped shape the communications industry that we know today.
On a personal note I'd like to thank Jim and I'm honored by the opportunity to build on his vision and to lead our company into our next phase of growth.
For the call today we'll follow the usual process.
Sunit will provide remarks on our financial results for the quarter after which I'll provide commentary on our operations and talk a little bit about the CEO transition.
Then we'll open it up to questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start with some of the highlights for the quarter which can be found on Slide 3 of our presentation.
Adjusted EBITDA grew 18% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Sequentially excluding the $27 million net benefit we recognized in the fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA grew about 2% and was $6 million better than the outlook we provided in the fourth quarter 2012.
Our gross margin was back above 60% this quarter for the first time since the Global Crossing acquisition closed.
CNS revenue grew year-over-year and declined sequentially as expected.
We expect to see good sequential CNS revenue growth beginning in the second quarter and expect that growth to continue for the rest of the year.
Free cash flow was negative as expected but improved $51 million compared to the year ago quarter.
Turning to revenue on Slide 4.
Core Network Services revenue grew to $1.372 billion or 2% year-over-year in the first quarter of 2013.
Sequentially CNS revenue declined 1.3% primarily as a result of the reversal in strong fourth quarter seasonal revenue the decline in U.K.
government revenue during the quarter and a disconnect in North America that I'll cover in a moment.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 5.1% year-over-year and was flat sequentially.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue enterprise CNS revenues grew 6.8% year-over-year and grew 0.7% sequentially.
We saw year-over-year growth in enterprise revenue in all 3 regions.
We continue to expect enterprise CNS revenue to be the key growth driver for the rest of the year.
Also CNS revenues declined 2.5% year-over-year and 3.8% sequentially.
The decline was primarily the result of an anticipated disconnect from a large carrier customer in North America.
When we signed this contract a couple of years ago we expected it to terminate in the first quarter of this year.
On a regional basis North America CNS revenue grew 2.7% year-over-year and declined 1.2% sequentially.
We saw a sequential growth of 1.5% in the enterprise channel which was offset by a 5.2% decline in the wholesale channel primarily due to the large carrier customer contract migration I just mentioned.
The growth we saw in the enterprise channel was despite a decline in federal government revenue this quarter.
The decline in federal government revenue was partially a result of the conclusion of some professional services contracts in the fourth quarter of 2012 and we did see some contract award delays as a result of the sequestration.
We saw a strong sequential and year-over-year growth from our mid-market content and indirect channels in the region offset by federal and a slight decline in -- sequential decline in USF surcharges.
In EMEA CNS revenue declined 3% -- 3.8% year-over-year and 1.4% sequentially primarily as a result of declines in U.K.
government revenue.
As we indicated on our fourth quarter earnings call we expect the remainder of the 2 U.K.
government contracts to roll off in the first half of this year.
U.K.
government CNS revenue has declined 21.8% on a year-over-year basis and 8.8% sequentially.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue EMEA CNS revenues grew 0.9% year-over-year and 0.3% sequentially.
EMEA wholesale revenues declined 7.7% year-over-year but grew 2.5% on a sequential basis.
The EMEA enterprise business continues to gain momentum and enterprise CNS revenues grew 10.4% year-over-year.
We believe it's the enterprise phase where we have the largest opportunity and where we'll see the majority of our growth in EMEA.
Latin America CNS revenue grew 7.9% year-over-year but declined 1.9% sequentially which is a typical seasonal pattern for this region.
Sequentially we saw monthly recurring revenue and usage revenue increase offset by certain onetime items such as professional services revenue that did not recur in the first quarter of 2013.
Looking year-over-year we saw revenue growth in each country within the region.
Turning to results by product group we continue to see strong growth in products geared towards our enterprise customers.
Year-over-year we saw the strongest growth in IP VPN and data services network revenues.
We also saw strong year-over-year growth in managed security and CDN services.
Our CDN services grew 25% year-over-year on as-reported basis and about 2.2% sequentially and continues to represent about 2% of our CNS revenue.
We saw a decline in year-over-year revenues in CNS voice services IP and Vyvx.
On a sequential basis we also saw a strong growth in IP VPN data networking revenue CDN services and managed security.
Wholesale Voice Services and other revenues declined to $205 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to $236 million in the first quarter of 2012 and $223 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
As we've said in the past we manage our Wholesale Voice Services revenue for margin contribution and starting at the end of 2012 we moved away from some very low-margin international voice revenue.
Although revenue declined sequentially the gross margin dollar contribution from the wholesale voice business was relatively flat this quarter and had little effect on EBITDA.
On the bottom of Slide 4 for the first quarter 2013 we saw our CNS revenue churn increase this quarter to 1.6% from 1.2% in the fourth quarter.
If you exclude the U.K.
government contracts and the carrier customer disconnect I mentioned earlier churn would have been 1.3% this quarter in line with recent results and our average churn rate in 2012.
We expect churn to return to average levels for the rest of the year.
Turning to Slide 5 gross margin was 60.1% for the first quarter of 2013 up from 58.6% in the first quarter of 2012 and 59.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The expansion in our gross margin was a result of continued synergies from optimization initiatives and elimination of some very low-margin international voice revenue.
As a result of these initiatives while total revenue declined 37% -- $37 million sequentially gross margin only declined $11 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
On a year-over-year basis total revenue declined $9 million and gross margin increased $19 million compared to the first quarter of 2012 which demonstrates the progress we are making in taking network expenses out of the business.
SG&amp;A.
Excluding noncash compensation expense SG&amp;A expenses declined to $562 million for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $602 million in the first quarter of 2012 and $579 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 excluding the $27 million net benefit from special items we recognized in the fourth quarter.
The reduction in expenses is primarily a result of headcount synergies based on the actions we took in the fourth quarter of 2012 as well as other cost reduction.
On Slide 6 adjusted EBITDA was $386 million in the first quarter of 2013 up 18% from $327 million in the first quarter of 2012 and up 2% from $380 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This was $6 million higher than the outlook we provided in the fourth quarter of 2012.
I also wanted to mention that during the first quarter we achieved an additional $30 million in run rate annualized EBITDA-synergies for a total of approximately $220 million of annualized synergy since the Global Crossing acquisition.
As we indicated when we announced the acquisition we expected to achieve $200 million in run rate synergies by the end of the first quarter of 2013 and we exceeded that target.
For the $80 million in remaining synergies we expect we'll achieve a large portion in 2013 and the rest in 2014.
For the first quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA margin was 24.5% compared to 20.6% for the first quarter of 2012 and 23.5% in the fourth quarter of 2012 excluding the net benefit from special items.
We expect the expansion in EBITDA margins to continue.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures were $169 million in the first quarter of 2013 about 11% of total revenue.
Turning to Slide 7.
Free cash flow was negative $162 million for the first quarter of 2013 an improvement of $51 million compared to negative $213 million in the first quarter of 2012.
In comparison to the fourth quarter of 2012 we typically see a high use of cash in the first quarter driven by working capital uses due to annual bonus payments prepayments of software license and maintenance contracts and payroll tax payments.
Additionally as discussed previously our payables decreased by $45 million.
Also as is typical in the first quarter our receivables increased by $29 million.
We also had approximately $67 million in higher sequential cash interest expense this quarter due to the timing of higher interest payments in the first and third quarters of each year.
In the second quarter of 2013 we expect cash interest expense to decline by approximately $45 million compared to the first quarter of 2013.
As you can see on the bottom of Slide 7 free cash flow for the last 4 quarters went from negative $165 million for the quarter ending December 31 2012 to negative $114 million for the quarter ending March 2013.
Turning to Slide 8.
As we had indicated on the fourth quarter call we repaid the remaining $172 million of 15% convertible senior notes in full at maturity.
Net debt to adjusted last 12 months EBITDA ratio remained at 5.3x as of the end of the quarter.
We expect to continue to make progress this year towards achieving our target range of 3x to 5x.
We'll continue to be opportunistic in managing our debt maturities and feel good about our improving credit profile maturity schedule and liquidity position.
As of March 31 2013 we had cash on hand of $610 million.
Turning to our business outlook on Slide 9.
We feel good about growth in the business.
We are confident about sequentially CNS growth for the rest of the year.
We expect churn to improve in the second quarter of 2013 and remain consistent with our experience in the second half of last year.
Additionally we started off the year with strong sales with 10% year-over-year growth in signed CNS sales orders.
New sales opportunities in our funnel also looks strong.
On the cost side as I mentioned earlier we expect to continue to realize additional cost synergies throughout the remainder of the year.
Putting it all together we are confident in the guidance we provided on the fourth quarter 2012 earnings call and we are reiterating that guidance today.
For the remainder of 2013 we generally expect sequential CNS revenue growth to be stronger compared to 2012.
We continue to expect low double-digit adjusted EBITDA percentage growth for the full year 2013 compared to the full year 2012.
We continue to expect capital expenditures to be about 12% of total revenue for the full year.
We expect to be free cash flow positive for the full year 2013 excluding the payments made on our interest rate swap agreements.
So in summary we're focused on profitable revenue growth and driving adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow growth.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Jeff.
Thanks Sunit.
I'd like to start off with a summary of our results for the quarter.
While we saw good growth in adjusted EBITDA of 18% year-over-year we're not pleased with our revenue performance.
On the revenue side in addition to the seasonal pressures Sunit mentioned we also saw a couple of large customer contracts disconnect.
These disconnects are not a reflection of the current service performance and in fact the majority of these contracts were lost several years ago that finally disconnected this quarter.
These include certain of our U.K.
government contracts and the carrier contracts Sunit mentioned.
As we look forward our leading indicators for revenue growth for the rest of the year are strong.
We had a good start to the year in terms of CNS sales which were up 10% year-over-year.
This CNS sales growth came from all 3 regions with the strongest growth in North America.
We also see strong results in service delivery.
Our service delivery teams have done a good job keeping up with installations over the past 1.5 years since the closing of the Global Crossing acquisition.
I'd like to reiterate Sunit's comments about our focus on cost management initiatives.
In 2012 we focused on maintaining the customer experience while realizing the synergies from the Global Crossing acquisition.
In 2013 we are focused on profitable revenue growth and ensuring we have an operating model and a cost structure that are optimized for the customers we serve.
While we continue investing in sales headcount we believe we have the opportunity to be more efficient and effective in the way we operate and will focus on streamlining our business and our processes.
These efforts are not just for the sake of cost cutting but are really revenue growth initiatives aimed at improving efficiency and putting us in a better position to win in the market.
As an example we believe our intervals that is the time it takes us to turn up the customer's new service is the key differentiator in the market.
As we improve the efficiency of our service delivery team through process improvement and additional automation we are able to continue improving our intervals increase the team's productivity grow revenue without increasing operational cost and most importantly serve our customers more effectively and further improve the customer experience.
We recently completed our semiannual global customer loyalty survey.
The headlines from the survey are that overall customer satisfaction improved in each of our 3 regions and that we doubled the percentage of customers willing to refer Level 3 to others.
A customer willing to be a reference says it all and we're very pleased with the results of the survey.
Today nearly 65% of our revenue comes from enterprise customers.
They buy from us because we have an extensive global footprint because we have a product set that meets their needs and because we provide secure and reliable services.
We continue to add buildings and markets to our network extending our reach and our on-net capabilities but we do so with lower capital intensity than many of our competitors in part because of our extensive infrastructure that's already in place.
Historically we've seen capital expenditures at about 12% of total revenue and we think this continues to be the right level for us.
On past calls we've talked about continuing to grow our sales force and improve the productivity from our existing sales team.
These are still very important aspects of leveraging our network assets and driving growth.
Looking at sales headcount we did not make the progress we would have liked in the first quarter.
Attrition within our sales team was much better year-over-year but still higher than we expected in the first quarter and as a result our sales team was essentially flat during the quarter.
Turning to pricing environment in the first quarter we saw little change since we updated you on the fourth quarter call.
Pricing for metro enterprise and data center services remains generally favorable.
We continue to see more aggressive pricing for high-speed IT and point-to-point wavelength services for ultra-long-haul routes and to some extent for CDN services.
With respect to the CEO transition I'd like to share my thoughts on the opportunity we see going forward.
Some of you have heard me say why I came to Level 3 but I thought I would share it again.
I came to Level 3 because I believe in the company was in the best position to challenge the incumbents and to build that next generation of communications carrier that our customers are looking for that our customers want.
I came to Level 3 because I believe we have the network and the people to really compete on a global scale.
Four years ago when I came there were doubts as to whether we could transition from a carrier's carrier model to an enterprise carrier service provider.
There's no question today whether we can be effective in serving and growing our enterprise business.
We've proven that over the last 4 years.
We've had several years of organic growth with enterprise customers in particular enterprise data services are and have been the company's growth engine for the past several quarters.
In the meantime we acquired Global Crossing and expanded our enterprise products and our international capabilities.
In doing so we also demonstrated that we can manage large-scale global integrations delivering the expected synergies while maintaining the customer experience.
Today I believe in our vision.
Our vision to be the trusted connection to the network world.
I believe in our team and our ability to continue to execute for our customers and deliver the best service in the industry.
And finally I believe in our ability to leverage all of these things to drive profitable revenue growth delivering margin expansion EBITDA growth and free cash flow growth.
Today we are not planning any major changes to our strategy but we'll focus aggressively on execution efficiencies and operational excellence.
Our success over the next few years will depend on our ability to execute.
We will certainly review our strategy over the next 90 days to refresh and update our thinking but the core strategy to leverage the billions of dollars in network infrastructure we own and deliver bandwidth-intensive services to enterprise and wholesale customers will remain intact.
Many of you have asked what my plans are around filling the COO role.
At this time I do not intend to fill the COO position.
I strongly believe that our day-to-day execution around improving our processes and efficiencies is one of the most important things we can do to achieve our strategy and that staying close to the core of our business is the best way for us to improve execution.
In summary I'm excited about our opportunities.
I believe the strategy we've developed over the past several years is the right one and that our focus on execution across the business is the key to our success.
With that we will open it up to questions.
Operator would you please explain the process? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Scott Goldman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two that I have this morning.
One I guess just want to revisit the EBITDA guidance you have out there.
You put up I think 18% year-over-year growth in the first quarter obviously pacing better than initially expected on the synergy front.
You have the benefits of the restructuring that you did in the fourth quarter.
So help us think about why low double-digit growth is sort of the right pace particularly given those things that I mentioned as well as the fact that you expect CNS growth to be stronger in '13 relative to '12 and your starting point? And then second just hoping we could revisit the free cash flow question from last quarter.
Obviously you guys reiterated guidance on that front.
Sunit hoping maybe we could pinpoint a little bit -- I think we feel comfortable with the EBITDA the CapEx the interest side of things but give us -- is there any parameters you can put around what we should expect on the working capital side of things and what the factors are that influence whether you fully take in the interest rate swaps or just do the half for this year? Sure I'll take both of those.
On the EBITDA guidance yes we had a strong first quarter or first quarter year-over-year growth.
Keep in mind that we're just at the beginning of the journey in terms of the synergies over the course of last year.
We got a lot of benefit from synergies and also in the first quarter.
But I think going forward we're now at the tail end of the synergies so we won't get as much benefit from cost reductions as we did over the last 4 or 5 quarters.
That really is the biggest difference.
I think the margin contribution from CNS revenue growth will be a bigger contributor this year since we generally expect stronger sequential growth this year compared to last year.
So I think that as you look at the EBITDA growth year-over-year every quarter it won't look as strong just because as I said we had a lot of synergy reduction last year.
On the free cash flow I think that you saw the improvement year-over-year in free cash flow.
Looking forward most of the free cash flow improvement is just driven by higher EBITDA that we've seen over last year and the working capital front as I indicated last quarter.
Payables continue to be a use of cash this year.
You saw that in the first quarter.
I think we have a little more to grow on the payable side.
Receivables generally should be a source of cash for the remainder of the year.
The other thing that we mentioned last quarter is that we have some litigation payments that could happen this year as we -- some of those get saddled so we'll have more to talk about that later in the year.
And then as a reminder the interest rate swap obligation that we had was about $56 million in that range last year.
We make equal payments every quarter.
We have about $45 million or so left on that obligation.
Those payments will happen quarterly over the course of this year and the first quarter of next year.
So I think still early and as you pointed out I mean I think the EBITDA guidance that we provided and the interest expense guidance and the CapEx guidance are fairly stable.
So most of the action of the volatility is on the working capital side which can obviously fluctuate by tens of millions depending on how the year goes plus the litigation variance I mentioned to you.
So I think we'll be able to be a little sharper later in the year but I think at this stage it's still early and we continue to be comfortable with the guidance we provided last quarter.
Research Division</strong> And just a very quick follow-up.
I appreciate all the detail.
As you look at the working capital and you think okay last year was about an $80 million use of cash on that front.
Is there any clarity you can provide? I mean is it possible that we could see a higher use of cash this year as you clean up the payables and face that litigation? Or is that $80 million sort of a good benchmark to use in recognizing there will be fluctuations that could move in either direction? I think it's a reasonable benchmark.
I think -- but obviously as I said you say $80 million and plus or minus tens of millions.
But it's good as any.
Our next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Sort of a quick follow-up on the guidance question.
Is -- how much or if any of the Q2 comp charges included in your EBITDA guidance? And then for Jeff thanks for the discussion of your priorities.
Now that Global Crossing is largely integrated still some synergies flowing through how do you think about considering other M&amp;A? Your balance sheet's obviously in a much stronger position.
There's a lot of fast synergies as we've seen.
Are there other markets are there other product sets that you're thinking about here in terms of gaining more scale or do you think it's much largely going to be focusing on the assets you have right now? Sunit? I'll take the first question and then turn it over to Jeff.
So Simon I think I mean you saw we exceeded our outlook by about $6 million in the first quarter.
The charge for Jim's employment agreement from an adjusted EBITDA perspective is $6 million in the second quarter.
Obviously the larger component is on the noncash comp because of investing acceleration.
So we are not changing our outlook.
I think we're staying with the outlook that we provided so no changes as a result of that.
Okay.
With respect to the M&amp;A Simon we are largely integrated with Global Crossing.
We still have a lot of work to do to provide the level of experience that we want for our customers and believe that we can provide to the market.
With the acquisitions we completed so far we have something around $40 billion in PP&amp;E worldwide.
We think we have responsibility to our shareholders to maximize the value in those assets and as we talked about earlier focus on profitable growth by taking advantage of what we already have.
That said there are reasons why you want to do acquisitions for new products and new geographies that you mentioned.
And we'll consider those but they have to be in line with our acquisition criteria.
And specifically that means accretive on a free cash flow per share basis and deleveraging to the balance sheet.
We'll be opportunistic but M&amp;A has a high hurdle and we need to evaluate against that criteria.
Our next question comes from the line of Ana Goshko with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jeff I wanted to ask you for some additional insight on how you believe macroeconomic concerns or is just related to sequestration are impacting spending patterns by your customers? We heard some other carriers talk about delayed spending by enterprises.
And in particular I know a couple of years ago when we were in the depths of recession and kind of a credit crisis you had talked about or the company had talked about customers really running their networks very hot or hotter with a lot less available capacity.
And would be interested in any insights into where you think your customers are in that front as well.
Sure sure.
With respect to sequestration we are seeing some delays in the U.S.
government from different contract awards that they might have.
Nothing really substantial or material but we do expect that that will slow things down with the U.S.
government.
In the general macroeconomic environment and we've said this for a while our ability to grow -- we have relatively low market share.
Our ability to grow is based on our ability to execute position our products in front of our customers talk to them communicate the value of them and not overly dependent on the macroeconomic environment.
When we get much higher percentage of market share then maybe that'll become more of a concern.
It is a concern occasionally on the wholesale side and that really gets to your second question which is around running networks hotter.
That's not a phenomenon we see in enterprise.
That is a phenomenon we see in wholesale and frankly we've seen it since 2009.
And I wouldn't say that carriers have ever gotten back to the point where they're not running their networks hot.
So the growth that they see in underlying demand generally translates to growth that we see in the wholesale business.
And so the network hot phenomenon is not as big of a deal as it was in 2008 and 2009.
Yes.
And one other thing just to give you some more specific color Anna we've seen our sales orders are up 10% year-over-year.
When we look at that between enterprise and wholesale our wholesale orders year-over-year were up 8% our enterprise orders were up 11% within that 10%.
There was a mix.
But more importantly almost 74% of our orders in the first quarter was from the enterprise sector side.
That's why you see it.
I mean we continue to feel enterprise is going to be the key growth driver for us.
And as Jeff pointed out it's all about execution and taking market share versus the overall economy.
Our next question is from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Two questions if I may the first one on the CNS sales being up 10% year-over-year.
I was hoping you could actually give us some context in terms of how that compares to previous quarters and kind of make the plea that maybe you'd give us that number on a go-forward basis just so we could actually make some comparisons as we move forward.
Typically companies give that number every year and there and it's not nearly as helpful if you did that more consistently.
So wondering if you could give us some background on how it's been trending.
And then the second question.
Actually Jeff I'm just curious now that you're the CEO if you could actually try to describe to us your style as CEO what you think you're going to bring to Level 3 both as it relates to operations and how you are going to be approaching investors maybe contrasting that perhaps to what you had under the previous regime with Jim.
And maybe even kind of touching back at your stint as CEO when you were at WilTel.
Okay Sunit you want to...
Yes I'll take the question on sales.
So I mean generally like most of these things we do have some seasonality in the sales.
Typically the first quarter you'll start off a little slow in January and then February and March tend to be stronger.
We talked about that last year which is why we look to the year-over-year comparison.
Typically in the fourth quarter you have good sales but you do lose a couple of weeks in December.
So I think generally the right comparison is the year-over-year comparison.
I think we wanted to provide -- just to say that the tone of the business was strong we'll take your request into consideration.
But as I look at the fourth quarter sales and first quarter sales not much different fairly comparable I would say.
So not that different and it's tough to gauge too much between whether sequential comparison or sales orders.
The real key that drives revenue growth is what you install as Jeff talked about what the churn rate is and then obviously any change in usage are really the key drivers.
Rate changes are not much of a driver on the margin.
It's meaning pricing changes are small compared to those 2.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sunit I hear all your points.
I just think that if you're trying to make it out that the 10% is a positive number which I think you are it's certainly helpful for us to compare that to something rather than just take management's word for it.
Not that we're not but it's a lot helpful when we could actually look back over time.
Yes fair enough.
We'll take that into consideration.
And Colby thanks for your second question although talking about myself is my least favorite topic.
Maybe that's one difference between me and some other CEOs.
But if -- I'm an operations guy at my core.
Operations does not mean the physical operating of the network but it means growing our business and selling our services to our customers and interfacing with our customers and providing a great customer experience to them.
You've heard us talk about those things for the last 4 years since I've been here.
We will continue to talk about those things.
If you look at my time as the CEO of WilTel ultimately we sold the company to Level 3.
But our focus from the day that I became the CEO was generating free cash flow.
And we believe that if we got on a path where we were continually growing free cash flow quarter-over-quarter that whether we chose to sell the company or we chose to maintain and operate the company that both those things that was a -- the primary driver for returning to our shareholders is driving that free cash flow growth.
So you'll see us continue to focus on that.
In my interactions with investors obviously we want to maintain the relationships with you guys and make sure that we're talking about our business and communicating accurately about where we are both good and bad.
I think in general and this is not a comparison to Jim but just in general compared to other CEOs I like to talk less and deliver more.
So we will continue to talk to you but ultimately what I want to do all our talking is our performance that we will deliver sustainable return repeatable free cash flow growth over the long term and we'll continue to grow our top line revenue that driving bottom line performance.
Our next question comes from the line of Donna Jaegers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Sunit can you give us a little more color on the loss of the U.S.
wholesale contract? I'd -- maybe my memory's gone but I'd never remember you guys really mentioning that much before.
And then a longer-term question.
Fiber to the Tower you guys had to sort of pass on it in the U.S.
because of cash issues.
But Latin America's now just starting to look at converting to LTE.
Will you be more aggressive in trying to get in front of the Fiber to the Tower in Latin America? Sunit will you take the first? Yes I'll take the first one.
I think the wholesale contract again as I said in my remarks back a couple of years ago we had a contract with the state government that transitioned to a carrier customer.
And so we knew that the 2 years we had were transition in nature and at the end of the 2 years that would go away which is exactly what happened.
So I think that's -- too make it more detailed though won't help you but that's essentially what happened.
It's a 2-year situation.
We knew about it.
We were happy when it happened because as opposed to losing that contract back 2 years ago the wholesale carrier that got it which was the incumbent in the region couldn't really get off of the network.
So we got 2 more years life out of it which we're happy about.
I mean he was going away.
On the Fiber to the Tower I'll turn it over to Jeff but it wasn't the cash constrained as much as it was the fact that we have much better higher-return opportunities to enterprise buildings than we had to towers.
And obviously some of that is changing as the towers move from T1s to fast ethernet-type connections.
But I'll let Jeff talk about what we think about that regionally Latin America and all.
Sure.
Sunit's right it's not -- wasn't a capital constraint issue it's a resource allocation issue.
It's where do we think we can allocate our capital and our resources to get the best return for our shareholders.
Hector Alonso is the Regional President of Our Latin America business and Hector's actually here in Greenfield this week and we spent the last couple days talking about Latin America and EMEA and North America and our business strategies for each of those markets.
We will continue to look at tower opportunities in all of the regions but in particular places like Latin America where we're a little more ahead of the curve.
But we'll put them in the context of our other investments that we want to do and the way that we really drive revenue growth.
And for us in Latin America it's enterprise business.
Our enterprise customers we think we have a great opportunity.
We have good data center business there and a lot of opportunity to grow with enterprise business.
So we will put that in the mix as we go through our strategy reevaluation and refresh.
And opportunistically if we go buy a tower we're definitely going to try and light it but we'll also look at the bigger deals that we can do in a country or in the region.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> You spent a long time building this company to get to a place where you have an asset that you like and you have a balance sheet that's much more manageable.
And you're through a lot of effort here now that you're reaching the tail end of the Global Crossing integration.
So I'm wondering if you have a bigger opportunity to start focusing far more internally on becoming a better company.
And the example that I'm thinking of is I see pretty good gross margins and yet I see a reasonably low EBITDA margins.
And so there is some evidence that perhaps your cost structure is more bloated than it needs to be maybe just as a result of having spent the better part of a decade doing a lot of M&amp;A.
What's your view on the opportunity here to take costs down and maybe make that more of a focus of the company? Brett I think your question's a really good one.
And if you -- in my comments about 2013 we are focused on driving profitable revenue growth and really gaining efficiencies and effectiveness in our operations.
And so our focus is exactly what you said on being a better company on performing better on being more efficient.
And we believe that not only does it help you on the EBITDA side and the free cash flow side but we believe it helps you on the revenue growth side.
If we can become more efficient and continue to improve the service level that we offer customers and the price point at which -- the cost point at which we have to provide that service then we can grow faster.
And so we're going to do exactly what you described focus on becoming a better company more efficient more effective and believe not only does it help the bottom line but it also helps us grow the top line.
Research Division</strong> Have you done any benchmarking on this? I mean I know maybe the question is a bit premature because you've just come out of a pretty high-effort integration with Global Crossing.
But it just does seem that you ought to be able to achieve much greater cost efficiencies over time.
I just wanted to know how far you are into even thinking about that.
Let me take that.
I think we have spent a lot of time on it.
One of the things that happens when you roll up a lot of companies is you -- just 1 or 2 examples you get a lot of real estate calls for technical facilities that you have long-term leases on.
So for example we had and over the next few years we will continue increasing our emphasis and intensity as some of these leases come up with explorations to get out of more and more facilities and reduce our rent expense.
So you -- compared to other companies that might not have done that with their M&amp;A our rental expenses are higher real facilities expenses are higher and when we see that has an opportunity.
Similarly part of having more facilities means we're a high-power expense.
So one of the things we're focused on is improving the PUE factors which is a measure of our efficiency in a data center and reducing the footprint which guides big reductions in our expenses.
And then it's all the other operational things that Jeff was talking about in terms of improving processes putting us on common systems platforms and just driving overall effectiveness.
So we look at revenue per employee-type measures which we think we are pretty good on but we still see opportunities for improvement Our next question comes from the line of Tim Horan with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> I think just 2 questions.
Sunit just a follow-up on those expense items you mentioned really seem to be more on the operating cost side than on the SG&amp;A side.
Your SG&amp;A is about 1 000 basis points above what a typical kind of services company looks like...
Tim those costs I just mentioned run through the SG&amp;A line.
The only thing that goes off to our cost of sales line is essentially what we baked to third-party network providers or network expenses sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like your accounting's a little bit different than some of your peers.
It sounded like you had a little bit more on the SG&amp;A side than maybe a typical services company.
Yes and it's always been that way by the way.
We've never changed it.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay great.
And then on the -- just 2 questions on the revenue side.
Are there any wholesale contracts or contracts like you have with the government in the U.K.? I mean I know this is hard to predict but over the next couple of years do you think you can lose or be kind of largely behind that process? At then on the enterprise side can you just talk about what products you're having a lot of success with right now on the sales front? I'll take the first question.
I think on the wholesale side no.
The only comment I would make is obviously there's as always a little bit of a lag period because when you see the disconnect and then the next quarter you see the full effect of that depending on the timing or when the disconnect happened in the quarter.
But overall and back towards Jeff pointed out the -- our wholesale customers all looking to run the networks a little harder and squeeze things out.
And we've said the enterprise is the key growth driver for us.
So tough to point to any specific large contracts other than -- it's one of the things that Jeff has forced out of us to make sure that over the course of this year and next year anything that we think is a big-risk item we are focusing very early on on managing that risk.
And then your question on the enterprise I will let Jeff cover for you.
Sure.
In general the products that we're being successful with are enterprise data services enterprise data networking whether it's VPNs virtual private networks tying locations together or providing the underlying infrastructure for enterprise customers' cloud applications and in cloud networking initiatives data centers in Latin America and Europe.
It's really the primary driver of growth right now for us and enterprise is the globalization and the data-centric nature of our enterprise customers.
And so it's data center services and the big networking services that we see most of the growth.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Jeff you mentioned coming in and seeing the opportunity on the enterprise side and I think that's a good strategy.
But you now you have an opportunity to look at things with a little bit more of a clean slate.
Would you consider maybe changing your exposure to the -- your wholesale business? Because when I look at the business it's still a substantial amount of wholesale business.
And to the comments earlier about the margin differential we see other carriers that have a lot less wholesale exposure and they have better margins.
You see wholesale under pressure from the hour box this quarter and continue to be under pressure.
And it seems to me that this is not the most attractive part of the business.
And clearly that was the original vision of the business and you moved away from that.
What are your thoughts there about getting out or more aggressively getting out of some of that business or changing it or are the margins better there and not so good in the enterprise side? We don't really get a breakout there.
So how was the -- what's your sort of operating philosophy going to be around that going forward? Sure.
First of all we are going to review our strategy over the next couple of months and we'll talk more about it going forward.
But in -- by and large we think our strategy is right and wholesale is an important element of it.
Although we have been intentionally shifting from wholesale to enterprise and we will continue that shift.
We'll continue to grow enterprise and continue to focus on that growth.
The reason wholesale is so important is it gives us a very large portion of the scale and scope and justifies the network build that we've been -- that we need to really effectively serve enterprise customers.
And so wholesale is a key component of our strategy making sure we have scale making sure that we have the scope and the reach of the network and making sure though that to your point that we do it profitably.
We want profitable growth on enterprise and wholesale side.
Not just one but we will continue to focus on leveraging our wholesale assets and our wholesale customers to be more successful in the enterprise business.
Yes.
A couple of other points on the margin.
So at number one I think our margins profitability is pretty consistent across wholesale and the EBITDA level wholesale and enterprise.
The other big thing to realize that our wholesale voice business is a larger proportion of revenue base than what you see now the carrier.
So as that wholesale voice business which has much lower gross margins shifts down over the next years that alone will bring us more in line with what you see with other providers.
So keep in mind that's the other thing we have on the mix.
But if you put the wholesale voice services aside for a second our profitability across both wholesale and enterprise is pretty comparable.
What we like about the enterprise business is more spread out more diffused and lower churn and we see better growth opportunities there for -- in terms of taking market share.
And Frank one other point it makes money for us today.
Even if it's not growing generates free cash flow it's in place it makes money for us today and we'll continue to loop that business and make sure that we're running it properly so that realizes it does give us scale.
Our last question comes from the line of Arun Seshadri with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
The first one I just wanted to understand your performance versus your own internal expectations on the adjusted EBITDA line was the outperformance largely result of cost synergies? And then secondly on CNS sounds like most of the contracts the U.K.
government as well as the carrier contract were expected.
Was the magnitude of that impact a surprise to you? And then secondly maybe a question for Jeff overall I just wanted to understand small cell opportunity over the long run perspective of what that could mean for Level 3 with a lot of the players obviously bringing different assets to the table.
Just would love to hear your perspective on that.
Arun I'll take the first couple of ones.
So I think EBITDA outperformance in the first quarter better than our outlook was driven by us doing well on the cost side.
And then your question on CNS revenue growth as we say it we do expect a decline.
Was the decline great or less than we thought? I would say Jeff said it best that we are not pleased with the revenue performance.
Having said that I mean when we look at the forward-looking indicators we feel pretty good about revenue growth for the rest of the year.
But it was about in line I would say roughly with what we thought.
But that doesn't mean we were pleased with the performance.
Arun on your second question to make sure I understand it you're asking about small cell sites as wireless as to smaller and smaller cell sites? Research Division</strong> Yes that's right.
Okay.
Small -- it depends on where they're located right? We have an extensive network infrastructure and if it's us building fiber to some remote small cell site it's not going to happen.
If it's in a building we already serve and they want a fast-E circuit into that absolutely.
And so we will continue to work with those carriers.
All the wireless carriers are major customers of ours.
We have good relationships with them.
We'll continue to work with them to make sure that we're helping their network evolution but it's consistent with our own network evolution and the direction we want to take our products and services.
Thank you all very much and operator that ends the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a good day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday July 31 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President Corporate Communications and Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Fran.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To accompany today's call you can find the presentation slides press release and supplemental schedules in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at www.level3.com.
During our discussion of the revenue results today we will be comparing this quarter's results to prior periods.
Unless otherwise noted all revenue comparisons to prior periods are provided on a constant currency basis.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 2Q '13 earnings presentation which says that information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Finally please note that on today's call and in the earnings presentation we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available in the press release and presentation which are posted on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Valerie and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start with some of the highlights for the quarter which can be found on Slide 3 of our presentation.
Enterprise Core Network Services revenue grew 7.1% year-over-year excluding U.K.
government revenue while CNS sales orders saw strong growth both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA grew 12% year-over-year excluding severance and restructuring charges in both second quarter 2013 and second quarter 2012.
And given the growth in CNS sales orders in the first half of the year and the decrease in churn expected in the second half of the year we expect stronger sequential CNS revenue performance for the remainder of the year.
Turning to revenue on Slide 4 Core Network Services revenue grew to $1.379 billion or 2.4% year-over-year in the second quarter of 2013.
Sequentially CNS revenue increased 0.9% an improvement over the 0.7% increase in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue CNS revenue grew 3.1% year-over-year and 1.2% sequentially.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 5.8% year-over-year and 1.9% sequentially.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue enterprise revenue grew 2.4% sequentially.
Wholesale CNS revenue declined 0.8% sequentially an improvement from the 3.8% decrease we saw in the first quarter of 2013.
During the quarter we did see the full effect of the carrier customer disconnect we mentioned last quarter.
On a regional basis North America CNS revenue grew 1.4% year-over-year and 0.3% sequentially.
Enterprise CNS revenue growth was 5.1% year-over-year and 1.3% sequentially.
We expect enterprise growth to strengthen for the remainder of the year in North America.
In EMEA CNS revenue declined 1.8% year-over-year and 0.1% sequentially.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue EMEA CNS revenue grew 2.1% year-over-year and 1.8% sequentially driven by continued strong enterprise performance.
Despite macroeconomic conditions EMEA enterprise CNS revenue grew 9.4% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
Latin America CNS revenue growth strengthened increasing 13.5% year-over-year and 5.6% sequentially.
Enterprise revenue growth was 14.4% year-over-year and 6.4% sequentially.
Overall demand for our service is high and the region saw growth from our enterprise and wholesale channels driven primarily by customers who purchased multiple services from both within the region as well as globally.
The strongest demand is coming from financial services e-commerce and energy customers.
Wholesale Voice Services and other revenue declined to $186 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to $229 million in the second quarter of 2012.
In the second quarter we continued to see the volume of Wholesale Voice Services decline as we saw some traffic leave our network.
Wholesale Voice Services revenue remains volatile and has been declining for the last years.
However we continue to manage Wholesale Voice for margin contribution.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the second quarter of 2013 we saw our CNS revenue churn decrease to 1.5% from 1.6% in the first quarter.
Excluding the U.K.
government contracts churn would have been 1.4% this quarter and was driven primarily from an increase in Latin America disconnects.
Overall we believe our churn levels will improve in the second half of the year.
Turning to results by product group we continue to see demand from products geared towards our enterprise customers.
Year-over-year we saw growth from several products.
Our colocation and data center services group revenue had the most success this quarter.
Within this group we saw strong growth in our managed security offering.
IP and data services were up led by double-digit growth in VPN and CDN services.
CDN revenue grew 30% year-over-year.
In our transport and fiber category we also saw nice growth from WLANs and Ethernet private line services.
On a sequential basis VPN and WLANs were strong performers in North America and EMEA.
In Latin America IP and VPN showed the best growth.
I'd like to briefly touch on pricing.
In general we've seen little change in the pricing environment.
High-speed IP pricing continues to see the biggest price compression year-over-year especially in the EMEA region while CDN pricing is stabilizing globally.
Turning to Slide 5 gross margin was 60.6% for the second quarter of 2013 up from 59.1% in the second quarter 2012.
The expansion in our gross margin was a result of growth in CNS revenue continued synergies from optimization initiatives and declines in lower margin Wholesale Voice Services.
Overall while total revenue declined $12 million sequentially gross margin increased by $1 million compared to the first quarter of 2013.
SG&amp;A.
Excluding noncash compensation expense SG&amp;A expenses declined to $562 million for the second quarter of 2013 compared to $585 million in the second quarter 2012.
The reduction in SG&amp;A was predominantly driven by reductions in headcount plus efficiencies gained in non-headcount expenses as we continue our disciplined management of expenses.
Excluding severance charges in the second quarter of 2013 and the second quarter of 2012 SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue improved 150 basis points to 35.1% from 36.6% a year earlier.
For the same periods SG&amp;A expenses declined by 5.5% in absolute terms.
As a reminder for the third quarter we usually see seasonally high utility costs compared to the second quarter due to higher cooling requirements in the summer months.
On Slide 6 adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2013 grew 12% compared to the second quarter of 2012 excluding severance charges in both periods.
For second quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 24.7% compared to 22.3% for the second quarter of 2012.
For the second quarter 2013 excluding severance charges adjusted EBITDA margin expanded to 25.6% from 22.5% in the second quarter of 2012.
We expect EBITDA margins to continue to expand for the remainder of the year.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures were $208 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Year-to-date capital expenditures as a percent of revenue was 12%.
Turning to Slide 7.
Unlevered cash flow for the last 4 quarters went from $542 million for the quarter ending March 31 2013 to $583 million for the quarter ending June 30 2013.
During the same periods free cash flow for the last quarters -- last 4 quarters went from negative $114 million to negative $109 million.
We expect continued improvement in the second half of the year.
As we mentioned in the past our interest expense -- cash interest expense payments are high in the first and third quarters of each year.
Net cash interest expense in the second quarter 2013 was $145 million and is expected to increase by $37 million to $182 million in the third quarter.
Moving on to Slide 8 our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio improved to 5.1x at the end of the quarter compared to 5.5x at the end of the second quarter of 2012.
We expect to continue to make progress this year towards achieving our target range of 3x to 5x.
As of June 30 2013 we had cash on hand of $596 million.
And turning to business outlook.
In summary we are generally reiterating our business outlook for 2013 as outlined in today's press release and on Slide 9 of our presentation.
I would also note that currency has been a headwind with a decline of the Brazilian real and pound sterling versus the U.S.
dollar compared to the rates in early February when we issued our business outlook for 2013.
Given growth in CNS sales in the first half of the year and the reduced churn we expect in the second half combined with continued focus on costs we feel good about our outlook for the second half of 2013.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I'd like to start with a few highlights for the quarter.
CNS revenues grew sequentially and year-over-year driven by our progress in our enterprise channel.
Enterprise CNS revenues grew in all 3 regions.
CNS sales and installations grew this quarter as well both sequentially and year-over-year both to the highest levels since the Global Crossing acquisition closed.
Even excluding the effect of the Starbucks deal which we won in June and I'll now discuss in a few minutes sales grew 8% compared to the second quarter of last year.
While we don't generally report install numbers we continue to invest in our service delivery capabilities.
Installs during the quarter grew significantly compared to the same period last year demonstrating our ability to keep up with demand.
Wholesale Voice Services revenues declined this quarter.
Given the changes in the industry we expect Wholesale Voice revenue will continue to decline but believe it's an important part of our larger product portfolio.
We continue to be disciplined in managing Wholesale Voice for margin contribution.
And during the quarter we continued the organizational changes within our executive team with the goal of streamlining our overall structure.
These changes created the increased severance costs Sunit mentioned but provide us the right operating foundation to drive execution and will benefit our cost structure in future quarters.
I'll give additional details on the organization and other operational changes we're making to improve our effectiveness in driving growth.
I'll now turn to the results for the quarter and discuss what we're seeing in the market as well as update you on our internal operating environment.
Starting with wholesale on the first quarter call we discussed a large disconnect from our North American carrier that occurred at the end of February.
During the second quarter we saw the full quarter effect of that disconnect.
As a result wholesale CNS was down slightly sequentially.
However wholesale CNS was up quarter-over-quarter in both Latin America and EMEA.
As we've mentioned before the wholesale market is more mature than the enterprise market and additional headwinds are possible [indiscernible] and consolidation continues.
We continue to see growth opportunities supporting wireless carriers and managing the exploding demand for wireless data meeting carrier needs in other regions of the world by leveraging our global network and delivering Ethernet solutions to a variety of wholesale customers.
If we look out over the long term we believe that revenue from the wholesale channel will be flat but continue to see our wholesale customers as an important channel for us providing the network scale and scope that will greatly benefit our enterprise strategy.
On the enterprise side of our business we've seen the opportunity to help customers manage the growing complexity within their telecommunications environment whether on a local a national or a global basis.
Level 3 continues to win in the enterprise market by providing a differentiated secure and reliable end-to-end solutions to customers.
Our ability to deliver these solutions on a large scale to meet enterprise customer needs is resonating with the market.
As an example you may have seen the announcement this morning of a new agreement with Starbucks to provide enhanced in-store Wi-Fi services.
Starbucks has made the combination of coffee and connectivity something Americans have come to rely on.
It sets superior customer experience that Starbucks is known for and we're proud that they selected Level 3 to help take it to the next level.
Over the next 18 months Level 3 will upgrade the network for Starbucks in-store Wi-Fi Internet services and data connectivity for its 7 000 company-operated stores across the U.S.
making connections in those locations faster and more scalable than before.
This project is all about managing complexity speed scalability and flexibility and we look forward to collaborating with Google to provide Starbucks the solutions that will provide the best Internet experience to Starbucks customers and leverage the best of what Level 3 has to offer.
We're also continuing to invest in local infrastructure including data center and metropolitan ring expansions.
Over the past year we've invested in power-dense data centers in Omaha and San Francisco and continue expanding our data centers in London and Berlin and key cities in Brazil Colombia Argentina Peru and Venezuela.
I'm pleased to say that we've seen strong sales as a result of these investments and in fact we announced on Monday that Major League Baseball is a large tenant in our Omaha facility.
We'll continue to invest in these types of opportunities where we see great returns and the ability to increase our connectivity to the major tools of demand.
These types of investments are included in our capital expenditure guidance of 12% of revenue.
With respect to the U.K.
government we've discussed the continuing disconnects from the contracts lost in 2010 which rolled up much more slowly than originally anticipated.
Those disconnects completed within the second quarter.
While we will see the full quarter impact in the third quarter these disconnects are now behind us.
Overall churn was a little higher this quarter than we'd like though we believe churn will improve in the second half of the year.
Looking at our sales force.
We added 17 quota-bearing headcount during the quarter.
This is below the 10 to 15 per month we've discussed previously but the more important objective is to improve the productivity and the effectiveness of our existing sales force.
We also continue to look at the performance of our current sales organization to ensure we have the right return on investment from the bottom quartile of performers.
We closely monitor the quantitative performance of our sales team but also the qualitative performance through monthly customer satisfaction surveys.
These surveys have been instrumental in driving process changes and improving sales effectiveness.
Our customer satisfaction in this area has increased for the fourth consecutive quarter.
I've talked before about improving operational efficiency and simplifying our business and this is a key area focus for me.
One of the keys to driving growth begins with eliminating layers of management streamlining decision-making and shifting authority and accountability for driving profitable growth down in the organization and closer to the customer.
During the quarter we eliminated several executive positions and consolidated certain functions which will drive greater accountability while reducing overlap and duplication.
Organizational changes within corporate development IT our process team and the overall flattening of the organization by eliminating the COO position will enable us to make better and more timely decisions.
We've also flattened out our corporate structure and moved certain functions and responsibilities into each of the 3 regions.
We remain focused on simplifying operations and back-office processes.
Delivering and managing large-scale telecommunications operations can be complex but that doesn't mean that we need to be overly complex in the way we do things.
For example service delivery is a straightforward process.
You make commitments to the customers you manage the constraints that would get in the way of those commitments and you turn up services.
By focusing on the detailed metrics that drive that process we continue to provide a service delivery experience that differentiates Level 3 in the market.
Service delivery is just one example of our initiatives to continually simplify operations with the goal of driving profitable growth.
In summary I'm confident in our ability to execute.
There's certainly more we still need to do and the benefit of many of these changes will be felt over time but we are very focused on driving profitable free cash flow generating growth and I believe we're on the right track.
With that we'll open it up to questions.
Operator will you explain the process? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jeff thanks for your review of some of the steps you've been taking on operational efficiency and so forth.
How are you thinking about the product in regional scope of the company at this point? Are there areas or products that you want to expand into or conversely where you may feel like you could look for a divestiture to make the company more efficient and more profitable as you pursue profitable growth? And maybe just a general comment on the M&amp;A environment would be great.
Okay sure.
Products we're continually looking at our product portfolio and believe that we have lots of opportunities to expand our products that generally IP-based services whether they're IP VPNs for enterprises or other IP services.
And then the adjacent products that go along with that.
So you hear us talk a lot about security.
Security is a great opportunity for us.
We believe we have a unique position in the marketplace operating an extraordinarily large Internet backbone operating a large CDN business and operating a large domain name server infrastructure DNS infrastructure.
We believe that gives us a unique perspective in the overall threat landscape that our enterprise customers face.
And so combining those capabilities with our extensive backbone our global backbone and the regional connectivity we have I think there's a lot of opportunities to continue to expand with enterprise customers and you see that in our sales and our CNS enterprise revenue growth over the past few quarters.
So we continue to look at that.
Opportunities to divest different products and assets that we have we'll continually look at that as well.
But right now there are no products that we think we should be divesting products end their life cycle as a normal course of the telecommunications business and we manage our products for especially the products nearing the end of their life cycle we manage them for margin contribution and are focused on making sure that we manage that effectively.
So we look at things throughout their life cycle.
On the M&amp;A front we've said in the last earnings call that we are -- we have a great network.
We put a great -- together a very compelling set of assets that allow us to provide the services that enterprise and wholesale customers are looking for and we're very pleased with that.
So M&amp;A continues to be something we will look at but it's not a primary focus of the company right now.
Right now our primary focus is continuing to grow profitable revenue by driving operational efficiency by driving sales success and by driving effectiveness in the marketplace.
Our next question from the line of Scott Goldman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions for Jeff and for Sunit.
I guess Jeff last quarter you guys talked about or you talked about doing a comprehensive review of your strategy over the next 90 days.
You announced today some of the management changes and the flattening of the organization in corporate development and IT and so forth.
Wondering if we should be viewing that as sort of the culmination of the strategic review or whether there are still aspects in the business that you're continuing to look at and when you may come to the investment community with other changes there.
And then secondly just in terms of those efficiencies and management changes that you highlighted I wonder if you can help put that into context for us whether that has any implications for the 60% incremental margins that you've typically operated the business at.
Sure.
We are continuing our strategy review of our business and the strategy review is to look at the market understand where our customers are going understand where technology is going and the products and services that people are needing are going and then developing our execution strategy to ensure that Level 3 succeeds in that environment.
And so that's not a "you do it and you're done" thing.
We will evaluate our strategy on a product by product basis on a geography by geography basis on a customer segment by customer segment basis and we'll continue to do that.
With respect to are we done making changes no.
We'll continue to make changes as our business evolves and as we see the need to do so.
The changes we have made we thought were appropriate at that time and we think that they'll help drive future improvement in EBITDA.
I'm not going to speculate on whether that changes our 60% gross margin targets that we generally talk about.
But we believe very strongly that there are high-margin good products that we can sell in the marketplace and improve and demonstrate our ability to be successful with those good high-growth products and high-margin products.
We will continue to focus on those things.
Yes and I think I assume when you talk about incremental 60% you're talking about the EBITDA side.
I think as we've shown and we continue to believe with some of the changes we talked about we will continue to drive 60-plus percent incremental EBITDA margins on CNS revenue.
I think there's nothing we see that indicates we can't continue to do that.
Yes and that's right.
Our CNS gross margin is generally around 80%.
Incrementally yes.
Our next question from the line of Ana Goshko with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> On the gross margin topic so it was really a positive change this quarter.
And as you pointed out while revenues declined as a result of the Wholesale Voice the cost of service declined more than the revenue.
So really what you achieved in the quarter is much better than the 80% incremental that you typically cite.
So on the optimization there I just wanted to understand is that Global Crossing related? And what it implies is you're getting a much higher percentage of your revenue base on net versus off-net? And I also wanted to understand is this something that's permanent and a new base that we should model from going forward? And is there more room to go on this kind of improvement? I would say in summary we continue to operate at incremental gross margins of 80% on CNS revenues.
I think that obviously we've had a fair amount of network expense synergies and we think there will be some more over the next year or 2.
But mostly in the quarter Ana if you look at it it's the benefit from CNS growth at 80% incremental gross margins.
The decline in Wholesale Voice is about a 30% loss incremental gross margin on Wholesale Voice revenues and then some benefit as you point out from network optimizations.
So our efforts on network optimization continue obviously as Wholesale Voice Services declined over the longer term we'll continue to look at the fixed cost of supporting the Wholesale Voice business and make reductions there to our -- for a period of time.
So I think what you see is a continuation of what we talked about which is just driving 80% incremental gross margins to CNS revenues and with some amount of optimization.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I can follow-up just on the free cash flow commentary that you reiterated this quarter I think what you're trying to convey for the year is that there is some swing factor there on being able to achieve free cash flow positive and you call out the $45 million of the interest rate swap.
Could you update us as you're looking into the second half of the year what you expect on working capital use? And also international cash taxes I think you'd previously cited around $50 million.
Is that still your expectation? Yes so the international taxes is in that range plus or minus a little but in that zip code.
And I think obviously that will grow over time given the growth we've seen in Latin America and as EMEA returns to growth to the U.K.
government business stabilizing.
And then from a working capital perspective I think that we've done a good job of bringing our payables down.
We're working on improving our receivables some.
But there will be outflow from things like litigation payments.
But overall usually second half of the year is a source of cash -- working capital is a source of cash given some of the prepaids bonuses and other things.
They're heavy outflows in the first half of the year -- so second half of the year.
Our next question is from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk about the sales growth obviously what's being considered a strong number.
Just curious if that tied to execution improvements some more specific to what you guys have done or is that an indication of perhaps an improvement probably speaking for the market.
And just a little bit more color on what exactly is driving that and also the sustainability of that improvement you think going forward.
And then just one housekeeping your severance charges we have been expecting $6 million in the second quarter it's actually $13 million per your press release.
Is there any other additional severance assumptions or even restructuring that we should be considering for the third quarter? I'll take the severance question first and then Jeff can talk about the sales performance today and going forward.
So I think on the severance what went through SG&amp;A remember this SG&amp;A in noncash compensation expense.
Obviously the biggest driver was Jim our previous CEO's severance costs.
As you said it went to the EBITDA line.
It's $6 million.
And as you pointed out we have $13 million of severance charges.
So we think an incremental $4 million on top of the $6 million for other executive changes that Jeff outlined.
I think generally if you look at us over the last year or so about $1 million to $3 million of general severance charges in the quarter have been normal as we continued to drive cost down and achieve synergies.
So I think what we are seeing is of the $13 million $10 million is severance charges related to CEO change and other senior executive changes and $3 million is a normal course of business so to speak.
With respect to the sales growth I think it's completely our execution.
I think we have an incredibly talented sales force around the globe and very qualified and talented managers managing them and they're looking at specifics and they're looking at performance and we're continually improving our operating environment.
Our service delivery speaks for itself within the industry.
And we have a compelling product set.
So I think it's the overall execution of our business.
If the economy were doing much better would it give us lift? It probably would.
I expect that it would give us additional lift.
But our ability to grow sales comes from our ability to take share from our competitors.
And we've demonstrated doing that over the past several years and I believe it's due to the focus of the sales team and the capabilities of the product set and the performance of the operation.
Our next question from the line of Donna Jaegers from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> On the Starbucks contract it looks like the speed that you're promising on that sort of implied that you're going in with fiber into those stores and that would be a great entre into all these multitenant buildings that Starbucks is usually in the lobby of.
Can you comment on more of the specifics on the contract? Yes we will -- we're going to upgrade 7 000 of the company-owned -- more than 7 000 of the company-owned or company-operated stores in the U.S.
and we will look at a variety of distribution technologies that makes sense for each individual store.
So without getting into too much detail on the infrastructure side of it we will use appropriate technologies and think that we're going to provide Starbucks with a much better solution than they've had in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Since I get a whiff on that one then on the -- can you talk about on the 100 gigabits how much of your network is upgraded to that? Because obviously it seems like a lot of the smaller players are trying to use that to take share away from you guys on the wholesale side.
Yes I can't give you -- I don't want to whiff twice with you Donna.
But I can't give you the exact percentage on how much our network is capable for different speeds.
I don't believe there's people taking business from us because of a product gap that we have or a capability gap that we have.
I think that our product set is completely aligned with the market and we will continue to roll out those products and deliver those products in all the various locations that customers are requesting them.
Sunit do you want to add? Yes.
The only thing I would add is I think that we look at everything from a -- I mean I agree with Jeff's product comment because I really don't see much demand from customers wanting that way.
But what you should know is we look at it I think from a cost perspective and a margin perspective.
And the key is we're not fiber constrained like a lot of other people are.
I think the more fiber constrained you are the more you have to upgrade to 100 gig.
For us we can ride much cheaper on a 10 gig gear because we have more fiber and so we have more degrees of freedom to move things around to like new fiber peers[ph] up.
Some of our competitors don't have that optionality.
And so many of them the 200 gig although it might not be cost-effective.
But our view is if it becomes cost effective we'll deploy it.
But as Jeff pointed out we are not seeing any big demand from customers at 100 gig.
They don't really care whether it's 10 by 10 gigs or whatever the need is.
I think that would be a good summary of that.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can get into a little more detail on the wholesale revenue within CNS.
And maybe you can give us a sense under the hood of what's going on in different product categories where you're seeing some more headwinds and how long and what magnitude can that continue on for? Yes so Michael I think that once -- when we combine Global Crossing and Level 3 we have seen -- we have been seeing pressure over the last year.
Having said that I think that we are seeing stabilization certainly this particular quarter both EMEA and LatAm actually saw growth in wholesale.
And then I think the main reason for the decline we saw in North America was a large carrier disconnect that we talked about last quarter.
We just saw the full impact of that.
In general we think that in the wholesale business when you look at it by product line the main thing is really consolidation.
I mean you're now seeing consolidation in the wireless side for example so that impacts us.
But having said that we continue to find opportunities in sectors like wireless as Jeff pointed out or where carriers outside the U.S.
want to take advantage of our network in the U.S.
or in the U.K.
for that matter.
And we also think that over time we're trying to drive more and more of the mix to the enterprise business and that's been growing for us.
I don't think there's anything fundamentally different there from a product perspective.
I think consolidation and everyone trying to squeeze out on cost and we have mature market channel the wholesale business.
So we expect stability in those revenues as Jeff pointed out for the longer-term.
And for this quarter the only thing to talk about is that carrier disconnect in North America that we saw a full quarter's effect for the wholesale business as you saw.
And I mean if you exclude that I would say the wholesale business when they see North America or LatAm is generally stable to maybe growing in LatAm.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on the enterprise side.
Is there an opportunity for you guys to disclose more on customer performance and what you're seeing in terms of customer growth or unit growth of some kind in enterprise? Just try to think about that relative to what you're seeing with the revenue trends.
And then also provide investors with an opportunity to compare those subscriber metrics to maybe what your total addressable market may look like over time.
It's a good suggestion.
I think we'll think about it some more.
Usually we make changes once a year.
But it's a good suggestion.
I think that we generally do monitor things like how many customers we add how many logos we added how many got out how much of the growth is from existing customers.
So let us go and think about that and see if we can have more to say about that in future periods.
Our next question from the line of Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two if you don't mind.
First you know the large guys in the U.S.
AT&amp;T and Verizon have continued to see some headwinds on their enterprise businesses related to the economy.
So first I was just curious if you can just talk about the extent to which economic trends are important to your business coming from more of a competitive carrier position as opposed to an incumbent position.
And then just as in case I missed this looking at the sequential trends on a constantly -- constant currency basis in LatAm and enterprise was particularly strong.
So hoping you can maybe give us a sense of what was behind that and if it's something we should take out of the run rate.
Okay with respect to the economy we've talked a lot about the economy over the past few years.
If the economy is booming does it give us lift? Of course it does.
But our ability to win isn't based on the economy.
If you're an incumbent and you're losing share then the economy probably has a much greater impact on you than it with us we're winning share.
We're offering new products and services for enterprise customers that they haven't historically used.
And so those are all growth opportunities for us.
So while the overall economy raises or lowers all boats it affects us less than it would those large incumbents.
And our performance is based on our ability to execute in our ability to win.
And we said that when the economy was really weak and we said that when the economy is doing better.
Our growth is based predominantly on our ability to execute.
Within LatAm and enterprise we've got great products and services and they resonate well with the market.
And sales are always a little bit lumpy from quarter-to-quarter.
This was a -- we'll continue to focus on that business.
We've got an excellent team down there that runs the business very well and we just think it's a result of us having the right products and the right services for the enterprise market down there.
Research Division</strong> And not to nitpick on that and I do appreciate the color but we always try to get our models right was there anything not recurring that we should take out or you just -- or you had a higher run rate? I don't think there was anything of significance.
I think the main thing as Jeff pointed out the revenue growth can be a little lumpy at times.
But generally I think Latin America is driven by exactly what Jeff is talking about solutions resonating data center continue to be a bright spot in LatAm.
And us making sure we are making the right investments to take advantage of this.
And I think the other thing that we are really seeing is the power of our network in 50 countries.
And that's going to be very valuable to large customers that want to operate in many different environments and geographies with a limited number of suppliers helping them.
I think that's really helping us a lot in LatAm also.
And then selling multiple services to our customers that also helps.
Our next question from the line of Tom Seitz from Jefferies &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> A couple if I may.
Can you talk a little bit more about the partnership with Google? Are they just the brand and you're the network? And is this a partnership you expect to take to more potential customers perhaps even in the cities like Kansas City or Austin? And then the second question is seems like every carrier out there TW Telecom Cogent everybody is talking about increasing the size of the sales force.
And you mentioned that you didn't grow the sales force maybe as rapidly as you hoped.
Can you talk about whether this sales hiring across the border is having any sort of impact to you guys? Sure.
With respect to the partnership or the collaboration with Google we are working with Google to provide Starbucks with a differentiated experience for their customers.
We will do the things that we do best building and managing and maintaining and delivering complex network services to support that infrastructure.
Google will do the things that they do best and making sure that they provide a differentiated Wi-Fi experience that they will at some point use that portal and that interface to for example maybe offer seasonal drink coupons to the customers as they walk in.
Google will do what it does best in that relationship and working with Starbucks to make that a differentiated experience for their customers.
We will do the network stuff.
With respect to the sales force our focus -- we've talked before about continuing to add to our sales force.
But our primary focus is to increase the overall effectiveness of the sales channel.
And so that comes with managing performance across the channel the high performers how do we get them to perform better the low performers how do we get them to perform better or move them out of our business.
We don't have a specific number that we're going to hit that number of salespeople every month regardless.
We look at the effectiveness of the channel and try to manage its size accordingly and make sure that the sales team is generating the return on investment that we expect from them.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on -- is the partnership -- could it be beyond just Starbucks? I mean obviously probably it will depend on how it goes but do you envision this partnership attempting to win other logos? We'll have to wait and see where all of these things evolve.
What we do believe is that the products and services that we're going to be able to provide to Starbucks other people will value as well.
And so we'll see how it evolves over time.
But we think it's a very strong collaboration.
We think that both companies bring something very capable to the table.
And as a result will benefit Starbucks.
And we think that long-term there'll be other companies that will be interested in similar services.
Our next question from the line of Michael Funk with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
You touched on the operating leverage question again.
When we closed the Global Crossing deal you talked about the opportunity to move the last mile traffic on to Level 3 network.
I think if you can please give us an update on where you are in the process.
And then Sunit in your commentary about leverage around 5.1x right now pretty close to the high end of your target range.
I wonder if you can give us an update on how hitting that target range might change your view of the uses of cash.
Yes I mean I think when you look at our rolling 4 quarters on unlevered cash flow and on free cash flow and given our guidance for free cash flow we obviously moving towards being sustainably free cash flow positive and hope of growing that.
In terms of the use of that cash I think that as Jeff pointed out we're looking at profitable growth the revenue growth which ultimately means free cash flow growth.
We are focused on that.
Obviously there are good investments to make to drive high EBITDA growth rates.
We would look at the cash for that.
But I think as far as your comment on the leverage goes our objective is to just continue to drive that net debt to EBITDA down and down so I don't think we're going to change by direction on that.
Obviously a lot of that will be EBITDA-driven.
And then your question on network expense we have done a lot of the things we wanted to do but that is not to say there's not more opportunity in the couple of next few years because we're also constrained by various purchasing agreements we have with contractual commitments.
So as some of those expire or change I think we will continue to keep optimizing as I would say and keep pushing that network expense down which is why -- the reason why we are confident in saying that we think we can drive the business and maintain the 60% incremental EBITDA margins on CNS revenue growth.
Research Division</strong> But is there an opportunity then to drive incremental margin higher than the historic guidance for 60%? If there is some more opportunity to move traffic on to the network I guess is my primary question.
Yes I think over a longer period of time I think obviously over the last 1.5 years we've done much better than 60% because of the synergies and we do have some synergies we are pushing for.
I think this quarter we made a lot of progress.
If you look at our SG&amp;A expense less the severance charges we had a very nice improvement in SG&amp;A expenses in the quarter.
So yes in the short term as we finish up the synergies yes.
In the longer term I think we'll be in the 60% range is what I would say.
Thank you all for the questions.
And in closing I'd like to leave you with a few key points.
We have a disciplined approach to investing in the network and in the services that are important to our customers particularly our enterprise customers.
Our ability to manage the large-scale complex global network solutions demanded by enterprises gives us a unique position in the marketplace and an opportunity to drive profitable growth.
We're highly focused on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of our company and believe the customer experience we provide differentiates us in the market.
And lastly we have significant -- we've made significant progress and we'll continue to enhance our ability to sell in both wholesale and enterprise channels throughout the world.
So we thank you for your interest in Level 3.
And with that we'll end the call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation and kindly ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Wednesday October 30 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President Communications and Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Fran.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To accompany today's call you can find the presentation slides press release and supplemental schedules in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at www.level3.com.
During our discussion of revenue results today we will be comparing this quarter's period to prior periods.
Unless otherwise noted all revenue comparisons to prior periods are provided on a constant currency basis.
I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which can be found on Page 2 of our 3Q '13 earnings presentation which says that information on this call and in the presentation contain financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may vary significantly from those statements.
Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Finally please note that on today's call and in the earnings presentation we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most comparable GAAP financial measures are available in the press release and presentation which are posted on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Valerie and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start with some of the highlights for the quarter which can be found on Slide 3 of our presentation.
Core Network Services revenue or CNS revenues grew 2.9% year-over-year and enterprise CNS revenue grew 7.4% year-over-year.
Our CNS sales orders continue to see nice growth year-over-year.
Year-to-date excluding severance charges adjusted EBITDA grew 13% compared to the first 3 quarters in 2012.
And since the end of the last quarter the company refinanced approximately $2.6 billion of debt resulting in $23.5 million in annualized net cash interest savings.
Turning to revenue on Slide 4.
Year-over-year CNS revenues grew 2.9% to $1.397 billion in the third quarter of 2013.
On an as-reported basis CNS revenue grew 2.3% year-over-year in the third quarter of 2013.
The company continues to experience currency headwinds in Latin America particularly with the Brazilian real in the third quarter.
Sequentially CNS revenue increased 1.7% an improvement over the 1.1% increase in the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue CNS revenue grew 3.7% year-over-year and 1.8% sequentially.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 7.4% year-over-year and 3.1% sequentially.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue enterprise CNS revenue grew 8.8% year-over-year and 3.4% sequentially.
Wholesale CNS revenue declined 4.4% year-over-year and 0.8% sequentially.
We continue to see declines in wholesale due to industry consolidation and network grooming by our customers.
On a regional basis North America CNS revenue grew 2.5% year-over-year and 1.8% sequentially.
Enterprise CNS revenue growth strengthened this quarter increasing 7.8% year-over-year and 3.3% sequentially.
Success in our North America Enterprise business continues to be based on strong demand of VPN CNS voice CDN and high-capacity transport services from both new and existing customers.
In EMEA CNS revenue declined 0.9% year-over-year as expected and increased 0.1% sequentially.
Excluding U.K.
government revenue EMEA CNS revenues grew 3.6% year-over-year and 0.8% sequentially driven by continued strong enterprise performance.
EMEA enterprise CNS revenues grew 8.7% year-over-year and 3.1% sequentially.
Professional services in combination with VPN services provided a strong contribution to revenue growth this quarter in EMEA.
Latin America CNS revenue grew 10% year-over-year and 2.9% sequentially.
Enterprise CNS revenue growth was 13.1% year-over-year and 4.1% sequentially.
Enterprise strength in the third quarter was driven by continued demand for IP VPN and security services.
Wholesale Voice Services and other revenues declined to $172 million in the third quarter of 2013 compared to $225 million in the third quarter of 2012.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the third quarter 2013 we saw our CNS revenue churn decrease to 1.4% from 1.5% in the second quarter.
Turning to revenue results by product group.
Our enterprise-focused products continue to drive customer demand.
On an as-reported basis overall CNS revenue grew 2.3% year-over-year with the strongest growth coming from IP and data services revenue which grew 5%.
VPN high-speed IP CDN and managed services were the main drivers of growth in this product group.
CDN revenue grew 37% year-over-year as customers continue to demand a higher level of service to deliver their content across the world.
Colocation and data center revenue grew about 4%.
Transport and fiber services and CNS voice services revenue were relatively flat.
From a pricing perspective we saw little change in the pricing environment during the third quarter.
Overall Level 3 is being more disciplined in our approach to pricing across our product portfolio.
Turning to Slide 5.
Gross margin was 61.2% for the third quarter of 2013 up from 59.6% in the third quarter of 2012.
Gross margin in dollars improved to $961 million in the third quarter of 2013 compared to $948 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The expansion in our gross margin was a result of the growth in high-margin CNS revenue and continued optimization initiatives.
Turning to SG&amp;A on the bottom of Slide 5.
During the third quarter we reduced our global workforce by about 6.5%.
As we disclosed previously we took a $30 million severance charge in the third quarter of 2013 due to the reductions.
We expect that this action will result in approximately $15 million of quarterly savings beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013.
We also continue to be disciplined in taking non-headcount costs out of the business.
Excluding the severance charges the noncash compensation in the third quarter of 2013 and the third quarter of 2012 SG&amp;A expenses declined 4.2% to $546 million compared to $570 million in the third quarter of 2012.
SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue improved to 34.8% from 35.8%.
On Slide 6 adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter grew to $415 million compared to $378 million for the third quarter of 2012 excluding severance charges in both periods.
Year-to-date excluding severance charges EBITDA grew 13% to $1.204 billion compared to $1.066 billion for the first 3 quarters in 2012.
For the third quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 24.5% compared to 23.4% for the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding severance charges in the third quarter for both 2013 and 2012 adjusted EBITDA margin expanded to 26.4% from 23.8% in the third quarter of 2012.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures were $194 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Capital expenditures during the quarter and for year-to-date were approximately 12% of revenues.
Turning to Slide 7.
Unlevered cash flow for the last 4 quarters went from $583 million for the quarter ending June 30 2013 to $594 million for the quarter ending September 30 2013.
During the same periods free cash flow for the last 4 quarters went from negative $109 million to negative $42 million.
We expect continued improvement in the fourth quarter.
Year-to-date working capital has been a use for cash -- use of cash.
Our accounts payable balance for example declined to $633 million at the end of the third quarter from $779 million at the end of 2012 a decrease of $146 million.
The reduction in accounts payable also includes the settlement of several long-standing network expense disputes with U.S.
carriers in the third quarter.
As we mentioned last quarter our interest expense payments are higher in the first and third quarters of each year.
Net cash interest expense in the third quarter 2013 was $178 million compared to $145 million in the second quarter of 2013.
We expect net cash interest to decrease by $46 million in the fourth quarter to $132 million.
During the quarter as noted on Slide 8 we successfully completed the refinancing of approximately $1.4 billion in 2 separate senior secured term loan transactions.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we completed the refinancing of approximately $1.2 billion in an additional senior secured term loan transaction.
As a result the company will incur a loss in the refinancing of $10 million or approximately $0.04 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
In total for the 3 transactions the company expects approximately $23.5 million in annualized net cash interest savings.
At the end of the third quarter of 2013 our net-debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio was 5.2x.
Net debt went up slightly during the quarter as our cash balance declined.
In the fourth quarter we expect nice improvement in our leverage ratio driven by stronger adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow performance.
Our debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA target ratio continues to be 3x to 5x.
Our objective is to now get to the low end of that range.
As of September 30 2013 we had cash on hand of $507 million.
In summary we are reiterating our business outlook for 2013 as outlined in today's press release and on Slide 9 of our presentation.
Given growth in our CNS sales orders year-to-date and the continued strength in our enterprise business we feel good about the revenue outlook for the fourth quarter.
Also in the fourth quarter we expect stronger sequential growth in adjusted EBITDA compared to the $415 million in the third quarter excluding the severance charges.
This improvement is a result of the cost actions taken during the third quarter and CNS revenue growth.
Also I would like to note that despite the $40 million in unanticipated severance charges in the second and third quarter this year we are maintaining our outlook to be free cash flow positive excluding the $45 million in payments related to interest rate swap agreements.
In closing we feel confident with our outlook for 2013 and feel we are well positioned for growth in 2014.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Sunit.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before I get into the details I'll cover a few highlights for the quarter.
Our enterprise solutions continued to drive our business now representing 65% of our CNS revenue.
We see strong demand helping customers solve the complexity of their IT environments.
Our portfolio of enterprise solutions and our ability to manage large and complex network projects are key to our success.
Overall CNS revenue growth strengthened this quarter primarily from growth from enterprises.
CNS sales grew 7% year-over-year again driven primarily from enterprise demand.
From a revenue perspective total CNS revenue grew 2.9% year-over-year and enterprise CNS revenue grew 7.4% year-over-year.
Sales in the third quarter have provided a good book of orders to be installed providing confidence as we look to the fourth quarter.
To achieve our goal of driving profitable growth we took additional steps during the quarter to simplify the organization and streamline our business reducing headcount by about 6.5%.
Excluding the severance costs associated with that action we had another quarter of good growth in adjusted EBITDA.
As I've mentioned over the summer we reviewed our strategy and our go-to-market plans.
Our overall approach remains intact.
While we will leverage our leadership position in the wholesale market we will continue to sharpen our focus on enterprises and the solutions that they need.
Focusing on operational excellence specifically the customer experience and network performance remains integral to our strategy and we believe essential to growing market share in the enterprise channel.
We continue investing in growth by expanding and enhancing the products and services that enterprises need to solve the challenges of their evolving operating environments.
Ensuring our product road map meets their needs today tomorrow and in the future is a core element for driving profitable growth over the long term.
We are also taking a hard look at the natural obsolescence of technology and how that affects the services we sell and what our customers want to buy.
As customers transition to new technologies to remain competitive within their own industries these transitions create very real opportunities for Level 3.
Turning to our results by sales channel and region I'll touch on wholesale for a moment.
As Sunit mentioned our wholesale customers are focused on managing their own costs through network grooming just as we are doing to reduce our network expenses.
Combined with industry consolidation we do see revenue pressure in this channel.
Our strategy with wholesale is to maintain our market share while also continually improving operational efficiency to maximize EBITDA contribution from these customers.
Wholesale is an important part of our business but it will not drive growth in the near term.
We continue to make great progress in growing revenue in the enterprise channel.
Let me take a minute to walk you through what we're seeing in each of our 3 regions.
Starting in North America our enterprise business continues to be based on strong demand for VPN CNS voice IP and high-capacity transport services.
Incremental business from existing customers as well as business from new customers is often driven by customers' needs to migrate to new solutions.
Those migrations can be driven by a number of factors.
Given our global network we are well positioned to meet the requirements of customers seeking increased globalization.
Customers may realize the need for additional layers of security where our solutions are based on our unique position and our ability to monitor the global threat landscape.
When other customers look to expand bandwidth or eliminate legacy technologies they turn to Level 3 to help manage and lower the total cost of ownership for those networks.
As a recent example Reed Elsevier a leading provider of professional information solutions wanted to improve their delivery capability to their worldwide customers.
The company provides professional information solutions leveraging deep customer understanding to combine high-quality content and data with analytics and in technology platforms.
Reed Elsevier's technology services division reshaped the way it serves its business units and connects to the rest of the world.
To enable their next-generation technology significantly increase capacity and improve total cost of ownership Level 3 brought key customer sites on-net to deliver high-bandwidth Ethernet services.
We are connecting their data centers to colocated equipment at Level 3 gateways laying the foundation for the re-architecture of their entire telecommunications platform.
Through their relationship with Level 3 Reed Elsevier is positioning itself to continue to lead the way as one of the world's premier providers of information solutions.
As more businesses migrate to cloud solutions the public Internet is not the best vehicle for customer access.
Network performance and security are key constraints of the public Internet.
Level 3 cloud connect solutions and our managed security offerings directly address these concerns for end users application and cloud service providers.
I'd also like to mention that in the North America region despite the federal government shutdown our government channel had the best sales quarter ever coming from multiple agencies and customers.
In EMEA we continue to do well solving enterprise networking needs including global connectivity solutions for European multinational corporations and have seen success with content customers that require scalable high-performing CDN and other services.
In the U.K.
government channel we saw the last of the contracts that we're transitioning leave our network in the second quarter.
Despite deep declines in the U.K.
government revenue we've been effective in minimizing the impact on the bottom line.
While certainly a challenging area to grow we are aligning our approach with the changes in the way the U.K.
government procures services and we'll continue to pursue the opportunities we see for profitable growth.
In Latin America we see growing demand for IP VPN services high-capacity Internet services and connectivity to data center services.
Growing Ethernet services are also driving demand.
While Vyvx and CDN services were just launched last year we are seeing success in selling these services within the region.
Additionally sales made in other regions over the Latin American assets continue to be strong especially for connectivity in Brazil.
The customer experience remains a top priority for the company and I see opportunities for us to improve.
Managing off-net vendors continues to be a challenge.
And during the quarter we saw extended delivery intervals for many of our off-net providers.
This is an industry-wide challenge and reinforces our strategy to add more and more locations directly onto the network.
We believe providing an excellent experience for our customers is one of Level 3's key differentiators.
And I set the expectation within the company that we should improve each and every quarter.
We are focused on both short-term and long-term initiatives to continually improve our customer satisfaction.
Looking at the sales force.
As part of the global reduction in force we reduced quota-bearing headcount focusing on the bottom 2 quintiles of performers.
We exited the third quarter with approximately 900 quota-bearing headcount.
We continue to look for opportunities to improve the productivity and effectiveness of our existing sales force.
And despite the lower QBHC numbers CNS sales grew 7% year-over-year and we had a healthy funnel.
In summary I feel good about the opportunities in the enterprise channel and our ability to meet the needs of the market.
I believe we're making the right investments and changes to drive predictable profitable growth and remain focused on growing free cash flow per share.
Keep in mind that the outcomes of these changes take time but I believe we're on the right path to achieve our financial goals.
With that we'll open it up to questions.
Operator would you explain the process? [Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Jeff I wanted to follow up on the profitable growth and in particular on the revenue side of things.
I think Sunit mentioned that you're becoming more disciplined on price perhaps looking at products that are not profitable and raising prices or exiting or rationalizing.
And I see wholesale voice continuing to be under pressure.
Could you provide more color there about the opportunities you see to be more disciplined and how long that's going to take to play out? Sure.
We see great demand for our products and services.
We are offering our products to the market that solve the customers' challenges.
And we expect to generate the value that those products and services are delivering.
And so we've been more disciplined.
We've worked with our product team to be strategic about our pricing understanding exactly where we are in the market understanding the granularity of pricing market by market region by region and then putting the discipline in the sales channel and our efforts to ensure that we improve our pricing position.
And our Wholesale Voice I think Simon as we pointed out as the world moves more and more to IP-originated and IP-terminated traffic more mobile that business is declining.
It's not really having much of an impact on our margins as we -- it's a lower-margin business.
Variable margins are much lower and it's very small dollars in terms of our total gross margin picture.
And we manage that for margins.
So it's not really impacting us much from a margin perspective and we think that decline will continue.
Research Division</strong> So is the pricing discipline are you actually raising price in a lot of -- across a lot of products? Or is it more tweaking? No.
We are -- in some cases we are raising; in some cases tweaking.
But with the -- we just -- we have a price -- strategic pricing group within our marketing and products area and they are combing through pricing on a micro basis on all our products and tweaking and in many cases increasing in different products.
Our next question is from the line of Ana Goshko with the Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get more color from you if I could on gross margin because it was a quarter where you had revenue go up but cost of service go down which is great.
And I know we've heard you say many times that there's high incremental margin on incremental CNS revenue but it appears that there's something else going on as well.
I'm wondering if it is continued efforts to bring things on-net and if there's more of this to come in the future in terms of the gross margin trend.
I mean I think it's a good quarter from a network optimization perspective and we continue to spend a fair bit of time -- our access management organization is spending a fair bit of time in North America to groom things bring things on-net.
In addition in EMEA we've also ramped up our efforts there.
And we're beginning to see benefit come there too and we think there's more there to be done there over the next year also.
So we continue grooming and optimization.
Research Division</strong> And then if I could just ask a quick capital structure question.
You've got some converts the 6.5% converts which there is a soft call provision on those that I think went into effect in October.
And I think based upon where your stock is trading and knock on wood it stays there you would have the opportunity to call those out.
And wondering if your stock stayed strong enough would that be the plan to call those notes out.
I think without talking specifically about that note just stepping back I think as I mentioned in my comments our objective is to continue to bring our leverage down and as Jeff pointed to improve our free cash flow per share.
So I think that any actions we take that result in both those things happening we would certainly take a look to that look to doing that over the next couple of years.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Goldman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to -- maybe for Jeff and Sunit on the operational efficiency side wondering if any of the force reductions if we saw any benefit in 3Q this quarter.
And then Sunit I think you said $15 million per quarter.
Is that sort of the full run rate in 4Q that we should be thinking about for 2014? And I guess bigger picture for Jeff on that topic as you think about that those savings coming through from those efficiencies is that something that you think about being incremental to the margin opportunity in the business? Or is that something where you think there's an opportunity to maybe reinvest for further growth opportunities as you look at 2014 and beyond? So I think Scott on the savings $15 million is where we expect in the fourth quarter.
Can it be a little better than that going forward? Possibly.
We're being cautious just because as any of these actions as they play out you want to see what happens but we definitely feel comfortable at $15 million a quarter and we can talk more about that in future periods.
But that we full very comfortable with.
We didn't see too much benefit in the third quarter just given the timing of the actions during the quarter.
And I think as we've mentioned that I think that pulling -- or those cost reductions gets us past the $300 million mark.
We talked about the Global Crossing synergies and as Jeff has pointed out quite a few times in the past by milestone driven.
So we felt comfortable and confident to take the actions when we did.
I'll let Jeff add to that.
But I think essentially we're now past the $300 million mark on the Global Crossing synergies.
And with respect to reinvesting in the future absolutely we will continue to invest.
I mentioned that we invest in our products in enhancing our capabilities.
We're focused on being profitable today but we're also focused on growing this business and being profitable 3 4 5 years from now and need to invest significantly to do that.
For example right now we're adding service delivery people in several of our regions because we need them to support the sales that we're seeing.
And so we will continue to invest.
But we will also maintain a disciplined focus on managing our costs and making sure that we're building an organization to deliver the business we have today.
And maintain the incremental margins we've talked about in the past while we're doing that.
Research Division</strong> So we should be thinking about the 60% sort of still in effect for '14 and that these actions don't really change that but perhaps give you some opportunity to reinvest on the growth side.
Yes.
I think generally yes.
Our next question from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's Greg Williams actually sitting in for Colby.
Just a quick one on the net leverage goal.
Nice improvement and they're still hovering around that high end of your 3x to 5x range.
And Sunit I think you said you want to hit the low end of the range.
Is there a time frame for that goal? And how should we think about your deleveraging priorities in light of opportunistic M&amp;A and CapEx et cetera? Yes.
I mean I think that we have quite a bit of opportunity just because of strong EBITDA growth which we hope to continue to drive and some amount of debt reduction whether it's converts or whether it's paying down debt with cash and I'm looking over the next 3 years.
So I think there are plenty of ways that we will be able to keep driving the leverage now.
So I mean I can't say exactly how many years but I think we'll continue to see meaningful reductions in that debt-to-EBITDA ratio every year given all the degrees of freedom we have now as I just mentioned.
Our next question is from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Looking at top line in CNS.
To really grow that meaningfully higher is there going to be a CapEx need to invest in that.
And over time as you see maybe the economy improve or so forth should we expect CapEx to be higher than 12%? And if not why is it going to stay at that level? So I think first in the short term with revenue I think one of the big benefits is just that we don't have the declines or the big disconnects that we've had this year.
I mean going forward we'll expect churn to continue but not very large ones some of the ones that we experienced earlier this year.
So that's a help.
And U.K.
government revenue not going down helps in the short term just as you look at revenue comparisons.
But as Jeff pointed out we are going to keep focused on investments here to make to drive better top line performance over time.
And with respect to CapEx I think that we continue to feel comfortable at 12%.
But if revenue growth does move up meaningfully it might go up a little but I think that is too early to say that now.
Because then CapEx going up would follow higher revenue growth performance.
But in the short term we don't see the 12% changing and we do see better revenue growth dynamics just because we're not -- we don't expect to experience the kind of declines we have over the last year.
We will invest for growth and we'll continue to do that.
12% is about what it's taking us so far and it seems reasonable going forward.
We think we have a capital efficiency advantage in the marketplace from the scale and scope of our network whether it's the buildings that are closed to our network being within 500 feet we can add them more effectively; or the scale of our IP backbone we can add capacity more efficiently; or the scale of our CDN.
We believe we just have a capital advantage over other people in the market.
Our next question is from the line of Donna Jaegers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> On the stock comp is this a good -- I know you guys have been talking about this will be lower going forward.
Is this a good run rate now to run off of? Yes I believe so.
Well I think this is a good run rate yes.
I think so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a little color on the wholesale -- CNS wholesale going forward.
Obviously Leap is going to be wrapped into AT&amp;T when that closes probably sometime in the first quarter.
Can you size that a little for us? Is it $10 million-ish? Look I mean we always hesitate to give specifics on any customers without any -- their permission.
But I would say I mean as Jeff has mentioned as you heard us say we continue to see consolidation drive churn in the wholesale segment.
And wireless consolidation would be a theme next year not just for Leap transaction but Clearwire Sprint and others.
So -- but I think we obviously have factored all of that in our thinking as Jeff remarked.
Our next question is from the line of Thomas Egan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Sunit I just want to follow up on a question that Ana asked earlier.
I know that in general you look to do things that makes sense from a debt-reduction perspective and a cash flow perspective.
But if you could just maybe frame it a little bit more specifically.
Does it -- you've got the soft call converts that Ana talked about.
There's probably at least 1 maybe 2 large coupon notes that are out there that could probably be refinanced given where your notes are today.
So how do you think about prioritizing those things what you're going to do with cash flow what you're going to do with refinancing? How should we think about what you're looking at and what's on your radar screen for the capital structure? Sure.
So I mean we've always said that ever since we combined with Global Crossing that we think that besides the operating synergies that there will be synergies on -- below the line on interest expense.
So reduction -- reducing interest expense obviously helps our free cash flow without adding to the share count and works a little trickier because it reduces interest expense but adds to the share count which is why I made the comment that it -- over to Ana's question that has to have the benefit of both improving cash flow and improving cash flow per share while reducing interest.
So yes we do have opportunities.
To your point we have been -- as you know we are quite opportunistic in that area.
We've already done as we pointed out well over $2 billion of financings refinancings already just in the last quarter.
And we will continue to take a look at opportunities where we can and it makes sense and it's accretive on a cash flow basis and good NPVs on a cash flow per share basis.
We'll continue to be opportunistic and move aggressively as we have in the past.
I don't believe we have any other questions in queue is that right operator? That is correct sir.
Right.
So before we wrap up today I'd like to leave you with a few key points.
We had a solid quarter.
We are focused on initiatives that will drive revenue growth and are investing for today and the future.
We remain focused on continually improving the customer experience and believe it differentiates us in the market.
We continue our disciplined approach to managing costs and are focused on driving free cash flow per share growth.
Lastly I think we have the best team in the industry.
I believe that our alignment around the services that will drive enterprise growth we will continue to enhance our ability to win in all our regions.
As always I appreciate your interest in Level 3.
Operator that concludes the call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation and kindly ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Level 3 Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Wednesday February 5 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President Corporate Communications and Investor Relations.
You may begin Ms.
Finberg.
Thank you Fran.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
To accompany today's call you can find our earnings materials in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at investors.level3.com.
Please keep in mind that the quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation and remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted.
Also revenue comparisons to prior periods are provided on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
Our Safe Harbor statement can be found on Page 2 of our 4Q '13 earnings presentation.
This presentation and remarks contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results can be found in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will also be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation as well as on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call.
To start I'd like to take a moment to give you my perspective on our results.
As I look at our performance in 2013 I am pleased with the progress.
We generally met or exceeded all of the financial targets we set at the beginning of last year in spite of significant organizational changes and debt refinancings which were not contemplated when we set those targets.
We delivered profitable growth we expanded both gross margins and adjusted EBITDA margins.
And thanks to the hard work of Sunit and his team and the $4 billion of capital market transactions we completed in 2013 our balance sheet is in the best shape it's been in many years.
I'm also pleased with our results and our enterprise efforts globally which continue to be the growth engine of the business.
As we look at growth across the regions we performed well in North America and Latin America but are not yet pleased with our trajectory in EMEA.
As a result I made a management change last month.
James Heard who is the President of the EMEA region is no longer with the company.
Sunit Patel is serving as the interim lead for the region while maintaining his responsibilities as CFO.
Many of you may know that Sunit's been the executive sponsor for EMEA for the past 2 years and has a deep understanding of the region including familiarity with our team customers opportunities and the challenges.
We expect to name a permanent lead within the next few months.
Given our extensive network footprint strong product portfolio and a large addressable market I believe we have good opportunities in EMEA.
Before I turn the call over to Sunit to cover our financial results I'd like to mention one milestone with respect to the Super Bowl over the weekend.
As a Denver-based company I won't comment on the outcome of the game but this year marks the 25th year Level 3 has contributed to delivering a successful Super Bowl.
This milestone is a testament to our ability to continue innovating over a long period of time our intense focus on the customer experience and the trust our customers have in our performance.
Meeting the expectations of the world's most demanding customers with their high-profile mission-critical needs is where we excel.
It's very gratifying being selected year in and year out by the very best in the industry.
With that I'll turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by saying that 2013 was a solid year for Level 3.
We completed a number of actions throughout the year both financial and strategic that drove good results for 2013 and positioned us for a successful 2014.
Our enterprise business continue to see success in the 3 regions we serve.
At the same time we made good progress on cost efficiencies throughout the business.
Finally we completed a series of capital markets transactions which delivered over $60 million in annualized cash interest expense savings going forward.
Together these actions provide good momentum as we go into 2014.
Turning to the highlights on Slide 3.
The fourth quarter 2013 marks the company's eighth consecutive quarter of enterprise Core Network Services or CNS revenue growth.
For the full year 2013 including the $40 million in severance charges we incurred the company delivered 11% adjusted EBITDA growth in line with our guidance.
Excluding severance charges in 2012 and 2013 adjusted EBITDA grew 12%.
Free cash flow for the full year 2013 was positive $29 million excluding interest rate swap payments of $46 million and accelerated cash interest expense payments of $30 million.
Finally as a result of the capital markets transactions we completed combined with the growth in adjusted EBITDA we saw this year we reached our target leverage range of 3x to 5x ending the year at 4.8x net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
Turning to revenue on Slide 4 CNS revenue grew 4.1% to $1.443 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year 2013 CNS revenue grew 2.9%.
Enterprise CNS revenue which is now 65% of our CNS revenue and growing increased 8.7% in the fourth quarter of 2013 and grew 6.8% for the full year 2013.
Wholesale CNS revenue declined 3.5% in the fourth quarter 2013 and declined 3.4% for the full year 2013.
We continue to see slight declines in wholesale CNS revenue due to industry consolidation and network grooming.
On a regional basis North America CNS revenue grew 4.6% enterprise CNS grew 11% for the fourth quarter 2013.
For the full year North America CNS revenue grew 2.8% and North America enterprise CNS revenue grew 7.5%.
From the fourth quarter 2013 compared to the fourth quarter 2012 EMEA CNS revenue declined 3.9%.
For the same period EMEA enterprise CNS grew 4.2%.
During the fourth quarter 2013 we saw higher disconnects than in previous quarters and are working to implement improvement plans.
For the full year 2013 EMEA CNS revenue declined 2.6% and EMEA enterprise CNS grew 8.1%.
U.K.
government declined $3 million sequentially this quarter.
We experienced higher-than-expected churn and we haven't seen the level of sales performance we expected with the government agencies.
As we noted in the press release this morning U.K.
government revenue is about 2% of our CNS revenue.
And with the steepest revenue declines behind us we will be including U.K.
government CNS revenue as part of the EMEA enterprise CNS revenue category.
This change provides consistency with how we report our other operating regions and our overall wholesale and enterprise channels.
We continue to see strong performance from Latin America with CNS revenue growing 11% from the fourth quarter 2013.
Enterprise CNS in the region grew 14%.
For the full year 2013 Latin America CNS revenue grew 11% and enterprise CNS revenue grew 12% in the region.
This region is benefiting from a growing demand for IP VPN services high-capacity transport connectivity data center services and Ethernet services both from enterprise and wholesale customers.
Wholesale voice services and other or WBS revenue declined $259 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to $223 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year WBS revenue was $722 million a decline of 21% compared to the full year 2012.
While we expect continued double-digit declines in wholesale voice revenue we are managing the business for margin contribution.
Turning to revenue results by product.
On an as-reported basis the strongest growth for the full year 2013 came from IP and data services with 5.2% revenue growth.
VPN high-speed IP CDN and managed services were the main drivers of growth in this product group.
CDN revenues grew 15% year-over-year.
Colocation and data services grew 4.3% year-over-year.
From a pricing perspective we again saw little change in the pricing environment during the fourth quarter.
As we mentioned last quarter we continue to be disciplined in our approach to pricing across our product portfolio.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the fourth quarter 2013 we continue to make progress in managing churn for the company overall with CNS revenue churn declining to approximately 1.3% from 1.4% in the third quarter.
Turning to Slide 5.
Our gross margin grew nicely from 59.4% in the fourth quarter 2012 to 61.4% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year 2013 gross margin improved to 60.9% compared to 59.2% for the full year 2012.
Turning to SG&amp;A on the bottom of Slide 5.
Excluding noncash compensation expense and noncash impairment costs SG&amp;A expenses declined to $518 million for the fourth quarter of 2013 benefiting from the cost savings actions taken in the third quarter of 2013.
This compared to $552 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year 2013 excluding noncash compensation expense SG&amp;A declined to $2.218 billion compared to $2.315 billion for the full year 2012.
Also for the full year SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue improved to 35.1% from 36.3%.
On Slide 6 adjusted EBITDA was $456 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 excluding a $10 million nonrecurring Latin America non-income tax benefit.
This compared to $407 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The improvement in adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter resulted from the benefit of cost savings action taken during the third quarter higher seasonal third quarter utility costs and seasonally stronger fourth quarter CNS revenue.
For the full year 2013 adjusted EBITDA grew 11% to $1.624 billion from $1.459 billion for the full year 2012.
Excluding severance charges in both periods adjusted EBITDA grew 12% for the full year 2013.
We're pleased with the expansion in adjusted EBITDA margin throughout the year.
For the fourth quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.5% excluding a $10 million nonrecurring Latin America non-income tax benefit.
This compared to 25.2% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year 2013 adjusted EBITDA margin was 25.7% compared to 22.9% for the full year 2012.
At the bottom of Slide 6 capital expenditures were $189 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year capital expenditures was $760 million and 12% of total revenue.
In 2014 we expect CapEx to be 12% to 13% of revenue.
The change is driven by higher CNS revenue growth and lower wholesale voice revenue.
Turning to Slide 7 we've been pleased with the steady improvement as we look at the rolling 4 quarter free cash flow throughout the year.
For the full year 2013 free cash flow was negative $47 million $118 million improvement compared to negative $165 million for the full year 2012.
Free cash flow was positive $29 million for the full year 2013 excluding cash interest expense payments of $30 million that were accelerated into 2013 from 2014 and payments of approximately $46 million for interest rate swap obligations.
Additionally in January 2014 a final payment of $11 million was made on the interest rate swap obligation.
Turning to Slide 8.
I am pleased to say we exited the year with our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at 4.8x within the target leverage range of 3.5x.
This compares to 5.3x at the end of last year.
We remain focused on getting to the low end of that range.
We feel good about our improved credit profile maturity schedule and liquidity position and we will continue to be opportunistic in managing our debt maturities as of December 31 2013 with cash on hand of $631 million.
Turning to Slide 9.
I'd like to now focus on our business outlook which is outlined in today's press release.
For the full year 2014 we expect CNS revenue growth to be higher than the 2.9% growth we saw for the full year 2013 on a constant currency basis.
As noted in today's press release for the full year 2014 we are changing the way we pay employee bonuses.
Historically the company paid 60% of employee annual bonuses in stock compensation and 40% in cash.
Going forward we'll be awarding the entire bonus in cash which will affect adjusted EBITDA in 2014 and beyond.
2013's annual bonus payment will be made in the first quarter of 2014 and will include a cash component and a stock component.
For 2014 the entire bonus will be accrued within SG&amp;A as cash compensation.
Noncash compensation will no longer reflect a charge for the bonus accrual.
The 2014 bonus will be paid in cash in the first quarter of 2015.
This change will reduce the number of shares of common stock issued every year going forward.
Our noncash compensation expense in 2014 is expected to be $70 million to $80 million.
Additionally with this change in mind our full year 2000 (sic) [2013] adjusted EBITDA $1.624 billion would have been $1.565 billion adjusting for the $59 million of the stock portion of the bonus.
From that starting point of $1.565 billion we expect adjusted EBITDA growth of 11% to 14% for the full year 2014 compared to the full year 2013.
In addition we expect to generate free cash flow of $225 million to $275 million for the full year 2014.
The company performs its annual analysis during the fourth quarter to evaluate the estimated useful lives used to compute depreciation for its fixed assets.
As a result of the most recent analysis we revised our projections of depreciation associated with extending the estimated useful lives for IP equipment and certain facility equipment.
As such we expect depreciation amortization of approximately $750 million for the full year 2014.
From a U.S.
income tax perspective the company's U.S.
net operating loss balance was approximately $9 billion at the end of 2013.
For the first quarter 2014 we expect CNS revenue to be roughly flat on a sequential basis due to the typical reversal in seasonally strong fourth quarter revenue offset by continued underlying growth in CNS revenue.
Our fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $438 million adjusting for the $10 million Latin America non-income tax benefit and the $18 million of bonus-related noncash compensation.
We expect adjusted EBITDA to be roughly flat compared to the $438 million level for the first quarter of 2014.
In summary 2013 was a good year for the company and we are well positioned for growth in 2014.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
We had a strong finish in 2013.
Overall CNS revenue growth accelerated in the fourth quarter 2013 driven by underlying improvements in sales installation and usage throughout the year.
In the fourth quarter we also saw further reduction in churn and the seasonal revenue strength from our broadcast and content customers.
Looking at wholesale CNS revenue declined in the fourth quarter similar to the performance we've seen throughout the year.
While there are pockets of opportunities for growth within the wholesale channel managing and ultimately reducing network expenses are priorities for most wholesale customers.
Against the backdrop of continued industry consolidation we do expect revenue pressure in the channel.
As I've said many times wholesale remains an important part of our overall global business and we will continue to leverage our leadership position in the market.
Turning to enterprise we've seen solid momentum in this channel.
Enterprise CNS revenue strengthened again in the fourth quarter and we believe we are well positioned to continue to take market share.
Enterprises are faced with growing demands for bandwidth increasingly complex mobile and cloud operating environments the need for global connectivity and an ever escalating threat landscape.
At the same time they're trying to manage within significant cost constraints.
Legacy technologies and legacy products do not enable them to meet these challenges.
Customers look to Level 3 as a proven partner to help them meet their challenges today and in the future with flexible reliable secure and cost-effective solutions.
As an example Trustmark Insurance Company has a large global presence and identified the need to upgrade their network capabilities to keep pace with their evolving business.
Trustmark a leading health insurance life insurance voluntary benefits and benefits management services company with a century of experience provides the resources their customers need to make knowledgeable decisions.
With more than 2 million lives covered their goal was to replace a patchwork infrastructure with a new solution that would meet both today's needs and also provide scalability for long-term growth.
Trustmark with a comprehensive set of requirements to meet compliance standards and future-proof their network awarded Level 3 this project because of our knowledge our solutions design and our dedication to the customer experience in helping them address their business challenges across the globe.
Whether enhancing the Level 3 product portfolio expanding the network footprint or raising the bar on the customer experience Level 3 is committed to continue investing in our ability to help our customers solve their challenges and as a result grow our business.
Last quarter I mentioned the Level 3 Cloud Connect Solutions portfolio.
Last week we announced an expansion to our portfolio with our new Cloud Content Exchange which was developed to meet the increasing demand for -- from broadcast and content companies to quickly and securely exchange content on a global scale via the cloud.
Our long history as a major provider within the cloud ecosystem gives Level 3 a unique understanding of the environment and the challenges that customers are facing.
Moving to sales for a moment.
We are pleased with our progress in growing enterprise customers and we'll continue to push hard on wholesale sales.
In Latin America the fourth quarter of 2013 was the best sales quarter since the close of the Global Crossing acquisition.
Overall we continue to feel good about our revenue and outlook based on healthy sales throughout 2013 usage growth improvements in churn and a strong order log.
While Sunit covered adjusted EBITDA results I'd like to add that I'm pleased with the progress we've made in driving profitable growth.
Profitable growth continues to be front and center for 2014.
We will be disciplined in managing costs while making the right investments to drive our revenue trajectory.
At this time we'll open it up for questions.
Operator would you explain the process? [Operator Instructions] And our first question from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2.
So first off on the guidance for 2014 greater than 2.9% obviously the fact that you expect to grow faster is great but you're coming off a quarter when you just did 4.1% year-over-year growth.
So I'm trying to get an understanding why it actually wouldn't be higher -- meaningfully higher than the 2.9%.
And I'm wondering if any expectations tied to changes you're seeing in Latin America might be playing into that.
Obviously you just mentioned you had a great bookings quarter which should play well into '14.
But I'm just curious if what's been going on down there has any impact on your guidance.
And then the second question just had to do with working capital.
I know part of it you guys have been focused on reducing your accounts payable and there had been some litigation outstanding tied to Global Crossing.
Wondering if there's any assumptions in 2014 that you want to call out that we could use in our modeling.
Thank you Colby.
So I'll start first with -- I think you made 3 points: the revenue guidance; and then if it does pertain to LatAm; and working capital.
So let me cover all 3.
So on the revenue I think if you look at the year-over-year growth we've been reporting over the last year I mean we've moved from about roughly a little more than 2% year-over-year revenue growth as you pointed out a little over 4% year-over-year growth in the fourth quarter.
So I think that what we are saying is that the 2.9% growth we had on a constant currency basis that should move higher.
Now obviously if you look at the trend and I wouldn't use fourth quarter per se we had a particularly strong fourth quarter as I said as we talked about.
But generally I think we're comfortable that the revenue growth will be higher.
It's tough to say how much higher or what range but it will be higher.
I'll leave it at that.
LatAm really the only country of note for us is Brazil.
Brazil is about 4% of the revenue base.
As you probably know the central bank there has been raising interest rates to keep the currency stable.
A lot of -- in Argentina is not as big.
It's less than 1% of our revenue but you've probably been reading about.
But Argentina is also the regional headquarters for Latin America so we are fairly well-hedged from a revenue and a cost perspective as it pertains to profitability.
The other situation you might read about Venezuela.
Generally those countries in many of those Latin America countries our revenues are well indexed whether it's inflation or through a dollarized-type revenue.
So we don't see much impact.
But obviously our guidance is on a constant currency basis.
But we think we're in good shape -- generally in pretty good shape.
On the working capital side obviously you've seen the wide range in free cash flow.
Tough to know the resolution of any pending litigation so we try to incorporate all of that.
We have litigation pending some are litigation here some in Latin America with respect to tax tax matters.
So we've tried to factor that in.
On accounts payable that you mentioned we did make a lot of progress in accounts payable.
We paid accounts payable down more than $150 million last year.
So I think we are in pretty good shape when it comes to receivables and payables.
But litigation obviously weighs.
Income taxes the other one you saw we provided income tax guidance mostly driven by continued growth in Latin America revenue and adjusted EBITDA.
Most of our income tax exposure is in Latin America.
So the GAAP income tax expense gives you an idea of the cash that we'll be using will go to the free cash flow line for income taxes.
So that's the other thing to keep in mind.
Our next question from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if we could -- Jeff you talked about profitable growth and obviously we've seen some nice margin expansion.
You're guiding to more margin expansion.
Can you talk about to what extent you've sort of been able to execute the initiatives that you wanted to on the profitable growth? Are we sort of in the middle innings here? Or do you still see income as stretched out for a couple more years? And then Sunit good progress on the balance sheet great to see.
You've got $600-plus million of cash.
You're going to generate another $200 million-plus.
Can you just help us think about what you're going to do with that cash? How you think about paying down or even at some point repurchasing stock and so forth? Thanks Simon.
Let me start with the profitable growth question and then we'll let Sunit take the other one.
We always get the analogy what inning are we in.
I think this is more of a cricket game than a baseball game and can last for -- it's going to last for years not just a onetime impact.
If you think about the things that we're doing to drive profitable growth it starts with better targeting of our customers making sure that we're going after customers that want the products and services that are close to our network that we're able to service that have global needs.
Really more profitable customers and how do we target them.
That's the gift that keeps on giving.
It's not a onetime benefit.
It's going to continue as we move forward.
We'll probably get better at it and it'll keep giving to us year in and year out.
Product focus.
What products are we selling? How do we develop products in our cloud space? How do we develop cloud products that help CIOs enterprise CIOs deal with the mobilization of their workforce and the mobilization of their needs? Developing products that are more profitable that target where our customers are headed is -- and the gift that keeps on giving.
That's a long-term initiative that we will continue to work on that will drive profitable growth for us.
And then the last point I'll touch on is just productivity improvements in our business.
We'll continue to improve the productivity of our sales channel by having better tools for quoting better tools for understanding where the customers are where our network is.
We'll continue to improve the productivity of our operating environment by better operating systems better processes simpler environment.
The way we develop products will be aimed at making sure that they're very efficient in going through our operating organization.
And those things continue for a very long time.
So profitable growth for us is not a onetime hit and we're done.
It's not a first inning second inning third inning thing.
It's the way we're going to play the game from now on and will -- it will continue to pay benefits from now on.
Okay.
Simon on your question I mean as you point out there are 2 clear options paying down debt buying back shares over time.
I think as we've said and we continue to say we want to keep bringing our leverage down.
I think with some amount of debt reduction that can take place over the next couple of years we have a convert out there $475 million that's in the money.
We have high coupon debt out there that becomes callable starting next year.
So we have the opportunity to pay some of that down refinance some of that.
And depending on our stock price trades over the next couple of years you are right we also have the opportunity to buy back stock.
As you know Jeff and I have talked about this.
We are very sensitive to shareholder dilution.
We've taken a step here with the change in the bonuses and I think that will continue to be even more sensitive on -- to focus more on per share metrics whether it's earnings or free cash flow.
So I think that's also an option for us over the next couple of years.
Our next question from the line of Kevin Smithen from Macquarie.
Jeff you've done a fantastic job of cost cutting in 2013.
I wonder is there further room for additional cost alignment actions in '14? You talked about potentially calling some of the high coupon debt.
On the operating side are there -- is there more to come? Or is it mostly going to be EBITDA growth going to be mostly driven by revenue growth going forward? We want our growth to be driven by revenue growth.
And that is our focus making sure that we're selling to the right customers with the right products for the long-term growth of the business.
And profitable growth is the primary focus of our business in 2013 and in 2014.
Having said that we looked at our business in 2013 and said there are some costs that we can take out that make us a better company that make us more efficient make us more able to satisfy our customers and more capable of delivering the operational excellence and the customer experience that we want.
If we see those opportunities going forward we will take advantage of them.
I'm not predicting any major cost cuttings in 2014 but we are very rigorous in looking at our business and making sure that we evaluate our resources and are we applying the right resources at the right level to the right areas.
If we have an area where we don't have enough resources we will continue to grow.
And we do that.
We are growing headcount today making sure that we are growing in the places where we need more resources.
We continue to shrink in other areas.
As we get operational improvement we hope we'll be able to scale our revenue growth without having to linearly scale our operational teams.
So we'll continue to be focused on that but our primary objective is revenue growth and profitable revenue growth.
And can you talk quickly about cash rent renewal pricing in the data center segment? Are you seeing a stabilization in pricing there? Or is this an area that's still sluggish? Well I mean you saw we reported growth in our data center business.
We do target a little different segment of the customer base than what some of the other players target.
Our main pitch is to customers that want basic data center capability combined with bandwidth.
And we usually pair that together.
We don't typically sell data center capacity by itself.
So no pricing for us is fine.
We don't have any issues.
It's been stable.
And the business continues to grow for us.
Our next question from the line of Barry Sine from Drexel Hamilton.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk -- ask about your revenue guidance in terms of product categories.
So you just discussed data center obviously strong driver of revenue growth and then the IP category even stronger.
What are you assuming in the guidance in terms of pricing as well as volume growth in those categories? So I mean as we've said for quite some time the pricing trends have been pretty stable so we don't see any change there per se.
We have become more disciplined in some of our products like high-speed IP for example.
And so not much change there.
We're not assuming anything -- I mean we're not assuming anything per se for specific -- by product.
Obviously we have detailed budgets for all of these areas.
But in general I would say our growth is being driven by enterprise products.
So if you look at some of the big contributors it's IP VPN.
It's a very large contributor.
CDN is small but continues to grow nicely.
But it's our foundational products data center IP VPN.
It's what our enterprises buy.
It's what's driving the growth.
Our next question from the line of Barry McCarver with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you mentioned the management change in EMEA area.
I was wondering beyond just government revenue becoming a smaller piece of the overall pie there what other changes in that market do you foresee to boost productivity there? There are a number of things that we're doing.
Some of them I've already talked about: making sure that we're targeting properly our customers making sure we're developing the products to help drive the revenue growth.
But also we've -- over the last 9 months we've taken a hard look at our strategy in all of our geographies and are working on implementing a targeted growth -- enterprise growth strategy in EMEA with resources dedicated to growing more enterprise on the continent more effectively.
In the U.K.
making sure that our operating teams and our off-net strategy are complementary of that long-term enterprise growth strategy.
So there are a number of initiatives that are underway to make sure that we're positioned for growth.
Yes.
I would add look we've done a good job in EMEA of reducing our costs and the margins are in good shape.
It's back to what Jeff said which is the key focus is getting better at driving top line profitable growth.
Research Division</strong> So competitively do you think you're positioned well there and it's the sales force? Or is it vice versa? I think that -- I think we're positioned well competitively because we answer the challenges that enterprise customers have.
Our products and services meet their needs and their evolving needs not just the needs they had 10 years ago but the needs that they are going to have 3 4 5 years from now.
And so our products and services are well positioned.
Can we do a better job of expanding our network footprint? Of course and we will continue to focus on that.
We have a comprehensive network throughout Europe.
We need to do a better job of getting to enterprise customers' businesses and we'll continue to focus on that.
But I think we have the ability to meet our customers' needs.
And we have very low market share.
In Continental Europe we're less than 1% market share.
So there's a lot of room for growth for us and we see good opportunities.
Yes it's a big economic block.
We already have a good start.
I mean our enterprise revenue grew over 8% year-over-year but we think that we can do better.
Our next question from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you be a little more specific as you're looking into your outlook and your guidance what FX assumptions do you have in the guidance? And will you be updating that as the year goes on? And then on the wholesale group what's sort of the outlook there? I understand sort of the market dynamics there but is that an area that you'll be deemphasizing over time placing less resources to to try and improve the profitability? What's sort of the long-term strategy there for wholesale relative to the rest of the business? So on the FX side again our guidance is on a constant currency basis.
But having said that as I said when you look at from a bottom line perspective there's not really much of an impact that we see.
Obviously the changes will let you know.
But at this point we are comfortable with the EBITDA guidance.
And again just what I told you I think we are well hedged in Argentina.
That's where our regional headquarters.
It's less than 1% of our business.
So the only real-watch area for us is Brazil which is 4% of the revenue base.
But again remember that in general in Latin America we do adjust our pricing with inflation/currency rates over time.
So that does compensate.
Not to mention we just had good strong performance in Latin America from a bandwidth need maturity perspective that they are lower and they are ramping up fast.
So it's a pretty healthy business.
We're not worried about FX per se.
On the wholesale group I'll let Jeff add some to it but I think as I said in my comments we expect slight declines in wholesale CNS year-over-year.
And -- but not too surprising we've been talking about it.
You'll continue to hear more and more about industry consolidation with the cable space or the wireless space.
But it's a good business for us.
It's profitable.
So we don't have issues with profit in the wholesale CNS business and it gives us a lot of scale which helps our enterprise business.
Yes the only thing I would add Sunit's last comment is exactly right.
It's a good business for us.
It adds scale and scope and helps us win enterprise and be more effective in winning enterprise and in a better position to win profitability.
So we're not deemphasizing it.
We're not shrinking the resources.
We think we have an excellent wholesale team and continue to have good sales opportunities in spite of the consolidations and other things that have a drain on that revenue channel.
Our next question from the line of Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On CapEx you've talked about trying to keep the CapEx to sales ratio in the zip code at 12%.
It looks like you're going to be sort of on the upper end of that in 2014.
I'm just wondering in light of the improving revenue trends the improving cash flow trends whether you're seeing more opportunities to maybe increase the investment you're making in the business or if you still think that's generally the right zip code.
And then on NOLs you mentioned that there are $9 billion of NOLs.
It looks like you're moving into sustainable positive GAAP net income.
How soon can we see you actively start taking advantage of those NOLs as a tax shield? So on the NOLs we think probably in 2015 onwards is when we would start using them but they're obviously quite valuable as you point out.
Research Division</strong> And the CapEx? On the CapEx I think some of it is mixed.
I mean with the kind of decline you've seen in wholesale voice business as we said the margin on the wholesale we manage it for margins.
It's not really impacting us as much from a gross margin or EBITDA perspective but it certainly shrinks the denominator.
So I think some of that is just that mix change if you compare to CNS [ph].
And the other thing we've said in the past as CNS revenues growth improves it will be correlated to CapEx.
I don't think this is -- and if you look at both things together it's not really much of a change in the CapEx guidance.
I would say it's a little more a reflection of the decline in the wholesale voice business because your denominator is not growing.
That's all.
And then on a long-term basis -- I was just saying as you look out over the next few years I'll go back to what we said in the past if you see profitable -- more profitable revenue growth opportunities we will invest more CapEx on the margin.
But 1% is still a lot of CapEx for us on a revenue basis $65 million.
So I think that this range gives us plenty of ammunition to make the investments for the growth this year and to position us well for next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just to clarify using NOLs beginning next year that I assume is just because there's a slight difference between your GAAP books and your tax books.
So maybe you create a little more NOLs this year and then you start using it thereafter is that right? Yes that's correct.
Our next question from the line of Michael Rollins from Citi Investment.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can give us some more metrics on the sales and footprint size maybe in terms of how many customers you have in the enterprise business what customer growth might look like.
And I realize that each customer is different in terms of dynamics and size but just trying to understand maybe some volume.
And maybe also if you could share with us how many buildings or how big the fiber footprint is in the metro that you have today.
And with the CapEx that you've outlined for 2014 maybe how you're looking to expand that.
Okay.
So I mean we have about 25 000 customers in total.
And these are numbers that about -- wholesale customers are probably about 2 000 a little more in that range.
In terms of building footprint we have roughly 15 000 buildings.
We add hundreds of buildings a year.
We try to add more buildings every year or more locations every year.
And I think that back to your footprint question I mean the key for us is adding on that buildings that are profitable so most of them are on a success basis.
We might do some speculative ones but very few most of them continue to be on a success basis.
I think we are focused generally on where we can increase that addressable market.
We do that in several ways.
In some cases we extend or build new loops within metros.
In other cases like in EMEA we will add new countries with tops.
So adding new cities.
And in some cases like Latin America we might -- we're looking at expanding our subsea footprint whether it's a new cable landing station.
So various things like that that essentially increase our addressable market or our long-term capacity in various regions.
Jeff I don't know if you want to add anything.
Yes I think that's right.
Our next question from the line of Donna Jaegers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
On dark fiber demand it certainly sounds like with the rumors out there with Apple may be building their own CDN and what Google's doing and what Microsoft's doing you have the net-centric guys much more interested in buying dark fiber between their data centers.
What is your stance on that currently? We think that there are places where we will sell dark fiber.
It's not something that we want to do for just anybody that comes out and wants dark fiber.
But there are customers that makes sense for us and we'll continue to focus on those customers continue to offer really valuable solutions.
If you look at Apple building their own CDN we think that could be very good for us.
If we were operating just a CDN and a big customer decided they wanted to build their own CDN that would cause us great concern.
But we actually operate at all layers of the stack.
So customers that want to move from CDN to IP services IP interconnection with major providers we've got the solutions for that.
Customer wants to then step down and buy transport services we've got solutions for that.
Or ultimately dark fiber we have solutions for those as well.
And so we look at that entire stack and try and match the products and services we sell to the needs of that particular customer and maximize our strategic advantage of having all those various capabilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just another quick question on the Starbucks contract and building that out obviously your customer -- you're sensitive to giving me specifics on that.
But is that helping to get more -- to drive more penetration within the buildings as you put fiber into some of these Starbucks stores? It does some.
Yes of course.
By the way the contract's going very well and our installations are going well.
We are proceeding nicely.
But yes it helps us grow our network in a variety of different ways and some of it's fiber.
Our next question from the line of David Dixon with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just build on the leverage question a little bit there and the interest in dark fiber.
When we've seen leverage challenges in the past you've seen companies focus on free cash flow maximization at the expense of positive NPV decisions and as that leverage is coming down do you see us making a shift there towards positive NPV decisions? I think just looking at how that deleveraging impacts the business going forward it would be helpful to just get your insight on and your visibility as that improves.
And then just specifically on your focus on the lower end of the leverage range do you think you could see a step-up in your appetite to sell dark fiber to meet that increasing market demand particularly as the interest picks up from carriers? And could you also see perhaps any appetite to sell a less strategic region within the U.S.
for example? And then lastly just a question on CDN.
I wondered on the CDN side are you seeing more growth downmarket there? I'm wondering if there's any implications for you in that business from the larger customers that may be shifting away from mirroring data using CDN to more of a kind of a storage approach on an increasingly distributed cloud platform from some of your competitors.
All right.
Well quite a number of questions there.
Let me see if I can dig through that.
So first the leverage ratio has been coming down though we've not been making any -- or not making any positive NPV decisions.
We haven't constrained ourselves as we've said in the past and our CapEx as a percent of revenue has been pretty steady.
We invest more when we see the opportunities and that's been -- we've been very steady on that.
So no we've not been shying away from any growth opportunities there.
The leverage is coming down nicely driven both by EBITDA increases and some amount of debt decreases.
And we continue to have the opportunity to lower our interest expense so there's nothing happening there.
It's just steady as she goes.
Most of what you're saying doesn't really apply to us.
We've not really been constraining ourselves.
The CDN business has been growing for us.
We continue to diversify our CDN revenue base with more in the enterprise segment.
We like the business.
We continue to see a growing need for that.
And as Jeff pointed out with some of the larger ones like Apple or Netflix in the past as they switched to needing other components we are a provider of components whether it's fiber wavelengths or IP any of that.
So the CDN business we think continues to be a good growth place for us.
Now it's 2% of the revenue base for us from a CNS perspective but nonetheless it's growing quite well.
Research Division</strong> And Sunit any potential to step up the fiber asset sales the dark fiber asset sales going forward to try to accelerate the timing to get down to the lower end of that leverage range? No we don't need to do any of that.
The leverage came down half a turn.
Again I'll repeat by -- keep repeating myself.
We have convertible debt that converts.
We have debt that we can pay down with free cash flow.
So no.
And as Jeff pointed out we'll sell dark fiber to select enterprise customers where we see the opportunity for a deep long-term relationship.
But no we're generally not selling fiber in the wholesale market and don't need -- don't see a need to do that.
Right.
Our next question from the line of Mike McCormack with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's Scott Goldman on for Mike.
One quick follow-up I guess or a question on the guidance this side of the house.
And Sunit as I look at the EBITDA guidance you guys have put out there and what you put out for 1Q if I just sort of annualize that 1Q number it sort of puts you right in almost at the midpoint of the full year guidance range.
So it doesn't even imply that you'd see much of an upward EBITDA trajectory throughout the year.
So just wondering how we should think about maybe some of the puts and takes on EBITDA.
I know we've addressed some of the cost-cutting stuff earlier in the conversation today but wondering if there is anything we should be thinking about on the opposite side that could be pressuring EBITDA in 2014 or whether maybe there's some conservatism to the guidance.
Well I mean we try to take a balanced view on guidance and focusing on execution.
There are some puts and takes.
For example and not atypical but you have higher increases in payroll taxes in the first quarter.
We have merit increases that kick in in the second quarter.
And as you know we have seasonally high utility costs in the third quarter which then peel off in the fourth quarter.
So you have some of those things that doesn't create linear progression in EBITDA as we deal with all of that.
I think the key thing is what Jeff talked about which is really pushing on overall year-over-year not with respect to any quarter but year-over-year better revenue performance and making sure we are executing profitable revenue growth and focus on that.
So those are the only comments I would add.
Our next question from the line of Michael Funk Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So your free cash flow guidance implies about $200 million to $250 million delta off the $29 million normalized for '13.
If I look at your EBITDA and your cash interest guidance it suggests that the number should be something like $25 million to $50 million higher even assuming higher CapEx in 2014.
So if you could comment on some of other uses of cash in '14 you're expecting such as cash taxes and LatAm working capital.
And then finally last year you talked about evaluating noncore businesses and products that weren't profitable.
If you can just update me on where you are in that process and opportunities there.
Yes.
So I think to your question on cash flow as I said I mean I think that we looked at the guidance from the perspective of we have some matters that are residual matters long-standing matters Latin America Global Crossing tax related some litigation here.
So depending on how the outcome of that goes we try to factor that in.
But we'll see how it progresses during the year.
Obviously if it doesn't pan out we'll have more to say on that later in the year.
But in general I would say that we made a lot of progress last year on the working capital side further improvements in collections.
We paid down a lot of payables.
So I don't see much that has to be done there.
GAAP income taxes that gives you an idea how much we'll pay in cash.
It's not too different from GAAP and cash income taxes.
There's a little bit of lag compared to what the expenses of the previous.
But still I mean it's a sizable cash expense for us on the working capital line when you look at our GAAP income tax guidance.
And that is all coming out of Latin America driven mostly.
So those are really the 2 key items other than EBITDA and CapEx and interest expense which you do know about.
And our noncore products Anthony Christie our CMO and his team have become very disciplined in managing our products from a life cycle management perspective.
And things that are noncore are not profitable when you manage them that way.
They fall out of the business.
We focus on them we identify them and we stop selling them and we figure out how to manage them for cash contribution that they can generate or completely shut them down.
And so our philosophy and our approach that that team is using is really helping us make sure that we stay focused on core products and growth products and profitability.
With that I'll end the call.
But before I do I'd like to leave you with a few thoughts.
We had a solid 2013.
As we look to build on that momentum in 2014 I believe we're making the right investments in the business and are focusing on the right customers to drive growth.
We'll continue to invest in our network our product portfolio and our ability to target and efficiently sell to customers.
We'll continue innovating and investing to improve the efficiency and scalability of our operating platforms.
We believe this not only improves productivity but also helps us provide a differentiated experience for our customers.
Additionally as Sunit mentioned we're taking steps to limit future dilution to the number of shares outstanding.
Together I believe these initiatives lead to an improving revenue trajectory profitable revenue growth and greatly improved free cash flow per share.
As always thank you for participating in our call.
We appreciate your interest in Level 3.
Operator that concludes the call.
Thank you.
We would like to thank everyone for using the Level 3 conferencing service today.
This does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday April 30 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Valerie Finberg Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications first quarter 2014 earnings call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings materials that accompany this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at www.level3.com.
Growth rates disclosed in our presentation and remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted.
Also revenue comparisons to prior period are provided on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
Our Safe Harbor statement can be found on Page 2 of our 1Q '14 earnings presentation.
This presentation and remarks contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results can be found in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will also be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial -- measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation as well as on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
We're off to a good start this year delivering another quarter of growth.
Historically our revenues declined in the first quarter because of end-of-year re-rates and seasonality.
We saw those factors this year as well but we're able to offset the declines with continued growth from our enterprise customers particularly in North America.
Across the company we remain focused on developing and delivering the right products and services to meet enterprise customers' needs enhancing our operational efficiency and continually improving the customer experience all as a part of our objective to drive profitable growth.
The enterprise business continues to be the growth engine for the company.
We believe we have an opportunity to position Level 3 as the clear choice versus our competitors by providing an easy migration path for enterprises to achieve the savings of technology transitions such as cloud and Voice over IP.
In a reliable secure and efficient way we enable enterprises to improve their capabilities reduce their costs and migrate to more scalable technologies.
This approach is clearly resonating with customers and I'm pleased with the progress we're making.
As I've said many times before our ability to grow is based upon our continued execution and we remain disciplined and focused.
Sunit will provide the details but as noted in our press release given our performance in the first quarter and the strong momentum we're seeing we are raising our outlook for adjusted EBITDA growth and free cash flow for the full year.
For the call today we will follow the usual process.
Sunit will provide remarks on our financial results for the quarter.
After that I'll talk for a few minutes about our products and what we're seeing in the marketplace and then we will open it up for questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
We had a strong start to this year.
We saw ninth consecutive quarter of growth in enterprise Core Network Services revenue which grew 11% compared to the year-ago quarter.
Overall CNS revenue grew 6.6% while total revenue grew 2.4%.
Given the strong revenue growth and continued performance in managing expenses adjusted EBITDA grew to $458 million in the first quarter.
The results provide a good foundation for the remainder of the year and we are raising our outlook for adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow for the full year 2014.
Turning to revenue on Slide 4 CNS revenue grew 6.6% to $1.457 billion.
While we often see a little softness in our first quarter sequential revenue growth this quarter was an exception.
We saw strength in usage across a number of our products and also benefited from earlier-than-anticipated revenue recognition from a U.S.
government contract.
I'll talk more about the specifics in a moment.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 11% in the first quarter as we continue to see strong demand for our full portfolio of services.
Wholesale CNS revenue declined 1.4% in the quarter.
As we've indicated previously we generally expect slight declines in wholesale CNS revenue given continued industry consolidation.
Our enterprise revenue is now 66% of our CNS revenue.
On a regional basis North America saw strong performance as CNS revenues grew 7.8% and enterprise CNS revenue grew 14% for the first quarter of 2014 compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Enterprise CNS revenue benefited from turning up services earlier than anticipated on certain contracts including services for a U.S.
government contract.
We said before that revenue from the government channel is lumpy which helped our results this quarter.
We also saw strong performance in usage revenue across a number of our products.
The nonrecurring portion of these items sum up to roughly high single-digit millions of dollars.
EMEA CNS revenue declined 2.8% while EMEA enterprise CNS revenue declined 0.8%.
As a reminder EMEA enterprise results now include U.K.
government revenue.
Excluding the U.K.
government revenue enterprise CNS revenues grew 10%.
Generally we believe that overall CNS revenue in EMEA is stabilizing on a sequential basis.
Let me give you a quick summary from the last 3 months leading the EMEA region.
From a profitability perspective we're on a firm pathway for improved EBITDA performance every quarter through the end of the year.
That is primarily being driven by network optimization and non-headcount expense reductions.
We've taken several actions on accelerating key product initiatives improving the customer experience and operational performance.
We will also focus on improving our engagement with key customers and prospects.
From a revenue perspective these actions should drive CNS revenue growth late this year.
Revenue now in Latin America region continues to grow nicely.
CNS revenue grew 12% while enterprise CNS in the region grew 13%.
We continue to pay close attention to the economic situation in several countries in the region but for now we see continued demand for bandwidth in the region.
Wholesale Voice Services in other or WVS revenue declined $252 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $205 million in the first quarter of 2013.
As we have indicated we expect double-digit declines in WVS revenue for the full year 2014 compared to 2013 as we manage the business for margin contribution.
Turning to revenue results by product group.
On an as-reported basis the strongest growth came from IP and data services which grew 11% year-over-year led by growth in VPN high-speed IP CDN and managed services.
CDN revenue grew 14% year-over-year and we expect strong growth in the coming quarters.
As we continue to be more disciplined with pricing and customers we target we saw our high-speed IP revenues grow 7.8% this quarter.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the first quarter 2014 CNS revenue churn was approximately 1.5% and better than the 1.6% in the first quarter 2013.
Typically we see higher churn at the beginning of the year as companies focus on managing their network expenses to get the benefit of a full year run rate.
Turning to Slide 5 our gross margin expanded to 61.8% compared to 60.1% in the first quarter 2013.
The improvement in gross margin was driven by the mix shift from higher -- with higher CNS revenue growth and WVS revenue declines as well as our continued initiatives around network cost optimization.
Turning to SG&amp;A on Slide 5 excluding noncash compensation expense and noncash impairment costs SG&amp;A expenses declined $40 million to $537 million for the first quarter 2014 from $577 million for the first quarter 2013.
3/4 of this improvement is from reductions in headcount-related expenses and the rest was from improvement in non-headcount-related expenses driven by reductions in spend with vendors and real estate leases.
On Slide 6 adjusted EBITDA was $458 million in the first quarter 2014.
This compared to adjusted EBITDA on a pro forma basis of $371 million in the first quarter 2013.
This growth in adjusted EBITDA was a result of several factors including high-margin CNS revenue growth including the items that are onetime in nature that I mentioned the benefit of the 2013 headcount reductions and ongoing cost reduction initiatives.
Adjusted EBITDA margin improved to 28.5% compared to 23.5% on a pro forma basis for the first quarter 2013.
Capital expenditures were $163 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $169 million in the first quarter 2013.
We continue to see steady improvement in free cash flow.
As you can see on Slide 7 on a rolling 4-quarter basis we now transitioned from negative free cash flow to firmly positive.
Free cash flow for the rolling 4 quarters ended March 31 2014 was $93 million.
Turning to Slide 8 as a result of growth in adjusted EBITDA we exited the quarter with our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at 4.6x.
This compares to 4.8x at the end of last quarter and 5.3x at the end of the first quarter of 2013.
We remain focused on getting to the lower end of our target leverage range of 3 to 5x and we will continue to be opportunistic in managing our balance sheet.
Moving on to our outlook on Slide 9.
With the performance in CNS revenue and adjusted EBITDA this quarter we are updating our full year 2014 outlook.
We now expect adjusted EBITDA to grow 14% to 18% for the full year 2014 compared to our prior guidance of 11% to 14%.
In addition we expect to generate free cash flow of $250 million to $300 million for the full year 2014 up from our prior guidance of $225 million to $275 million.
All of our other guidance measures which are listed here are unchanged from last quarter.
As I mentioned we are watching the situation in Latin America very closely particularly in Venezuela.
We're still using the official exchange rate which is at VEF 6.3 to the U.S.
dollar.
The Venezuelan government has also published an alternative rate called Sicad 1 rate which was at VEF 10.7 per U.S.
dollar as of March 31 2014 and 41% lower than the official rate.
While we cannot predict future exchange rate changes given our $68 million cash balance denominated in bolivars a 41% devaluation would indicate a charge of roughly $30 million or $0.13 per share.
We will continue to evaluate the situation and we'll try to make a determination before we report second quarter earnings.
As a reminder our revenue in bolivar-denominated revenue is less than 1% of CNS revenue -- of total revenues and whatever change in currency is factored into our guidance.
Looking at the rest of the year as I mentioned earlier while we expected revenue to be flat as is typical for the first quarter we did better than expected including turning up service on a couple of contracts earlier than expected and stronger-than-usual usage revenue.
From a cost perspective we do have some cost increases in the coming quarters.
In the second quarter we'll see company-wide merit increases of approximately $6 million kick in.
We did not have merit increases last year.
In the third quarter we'll see a typical increase in utility cost as a result of the summer cooling requirements generally increasing the high single-digit millions of dollars.
While we continue to be disciplined in managing costs we are also investing in initiatives to improve our operational efficiency as well as in key products and services to drive future revenue growth.
In summary we continue to focus our attention to profitable growth driving adjusted EBITDA and generating free cash flow.
With our first quarter results we've had a good start to 2014.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
This quarter we continued to show good momentum capturing market share within the enterprise channel while maintaining focus in serving the wholesale channel.
On the wholesale side we've seen the ongoing effects of network grooming and certainly expect to see some pressure as a result of industry consolidation but we're continuing to leverage our leadership position in that market.
On the enterprise side we believe we can continue to increase market share globally.
Even with the growth we've seen in the enterprise business we still only have low single-digit market share of the addressable market for our products and services.
Despite economic challenges that exist in any region at any given time enterprises need to invest to move to newer more scalable technologies with greater capabilities and lower overall cost structures.
That dynamic creates an opportunity for Level 3 and we are focused on taking advantage of those opportunities.
Given our full portfolio of IP optical services along with our ongoing focus on the customer experience we are already well positioned for growth.
At the same time as we look to 2015 and beyond we continue investing to improve our growth trajectory and profitability.
Enhancing our product portfolio is central to our growth.
We believe we can drive profitability by adding adjacent high-growth products to our existing portfolio.
A great example is the continued expansion of the Level 3 Cloud Connect Solutions ecosystem.
We've discussed in the past our extensive infrastructure supporting and interconnecting with Amazon Web Services.
Earlier in the quarter we announced a strategic relationship with Microsoft to deliver private direct connect -- direct connections to Microsoft Windows Azure.
Yesterday we announced that we will connect Digital Realty Trust customers in 14 major markets in the U.S.
and Europe.
As a result of the relationship with DRT leveraging Level 3's virtual private network services Digital Realty customers can dynamically scale their bandwidth and only pay for what they can consume as they access services from the members of our Cloud Connect ecosystem.
More generally as a result of these types of relationships we make it easier for enterprises to migrate and operate business-critical applications in either a public cloud environment a private cloud environment or in a hybrid public-private cloud.
Our philosophy of tailoring our solutions to meet the variety of challenges enterprises face is key to our strategy.
The flexibility to provide that array of solutions comes from owning and operating a global IT optical network that is the base delivery system for those services.
During the quarter we also announced the introduction of our Video Cloud offer.
Aimed at content companies and broadcasters this solution combines our content delivery our video broadcasting our cloud storage capabilities to creating more scalable secure and streamlined approach to global content distribution.
Cloud is certainly not the only product area in which we're investing.
One of our fastest growing products is IP VPN.
As network connectivity is the foundation of a customers' telecommunications need we've seen success using IP VPN as a wedge service getting our foot in the door often on a global basis.
Once we've demonstrated our capabilities with that connectivity we have the opportunity to upsell and cross-sell other services like Unified Threat Management to help customers deal with security threats Voice Complete professional services and more.
We believe we have great cross synergies with the products and services that comprise our portfolio.
As an example Pall Corporation is a leading supplier of filtration separation and purification technologies.
They serve customers through 2 business units globally life sciences and industrial.
Their products are used to remove contaminants from a variety of liquids and gases.
They had a more than 60-year history commercializing innovative products and continuing to develop new materials and technologies for their customers.
Pall had a goal to replace their current global WAN infrastructure with a new solution to meet today's needs while providing scalability for long-term growth.
They have several design and financial requirements for the reengineered network plan and Level 3 is delivering on all of those requirements.
Pall is deploying Level 3 Cloud Connect Solutions directly into our technology partner AWS with MPLS connections in Ashburn Virginia and Dublin Ireland.
Pall awarded us this project because of our solution design our accounting support and our diligence in helping them proactively address their multiple and complex business challenges.
These types of solutions make a difference for our customers.
As a result we saw growth in enterprise CNS sales this quarter in all regions with March being one of the best sales months in recent history.
At the same time we still need to do more to simplify the operating environment.
We have a number of initiatives underway to improve our operating platforms and our interactions with customers.
We are focused on ensuring consistency across all regions implementing global standards while enabling the unique characteristics of each region to satisfy their local customers.
With 10 000 employees doing business in more than 60 countries it's a large initiative for us and we're working diligently to implement everything from global operating policies to new systems to equipment stocking processes.
We also continue to expand our network footprint.
We announced the construction of a new subsea cable landing in Colombia to enable us to meet growing demand.
Also adding customers' locations directly to our network remains a key part of our strategy as we believe that directly connecting customers to the Level 3 network allows us to deliver a better experience drive profitability and easily add new solutions to their existing services.
With that we will open it up for questions.
Operator would you explain the process? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions for you guys.
So the first one has to do with the revenue guidance.
You raised -- you took the opportunity to raise your EBITDA and your free cash flow.
You left the revenue which is greater than 2.9% where it was but obviously just had a very strong first quarter.
Just trying to get some understanding as to why you may be doing that.
And then the second question I was wondering if you could just talk about what's happening as it relates to your interconnection business or IP transit business.
As you think about the deal Netflix signed with Comcast and I guess more recently with Verizon just trying to understand with some of the changes happening in that part of the industry how you think that that could impact you? And I realize you guys have always argued that you care less about what service the provider -- the customer buys from you whether it's dark fiber lit services et cetera you'll effectively just want to be able to help them.
But explicitly as it relates to your IP transit business what are you expecting to potentially happen there? I'll get the questions on revenue and Jeff can talk about interconnection.
So with revenue I think that we're really more focused on EBITDA growth and free cash flow.
Obviously we had a strong start to the revenue growth.
I think that our performance continues to improve from a revenue growth perspective.
We've been focused on that for a while.
I will just see our trend line performance and go from there on revenue.
And we talked about what some of the onetime items during the quarter.
So that's all we have to say on revenue guidance.
We haven't provided specific revenue guidance for quite some time now.
So I mean our overall message was revenue growth this year is going to be better than last.
LLC Research Division</strong> Your point being is that -- your point being on that then is don't get too married to the 2.9%.
It's obviously a very -- it's effectively anything above that.
And certainly with the trends that we saw in the first quarter it could be above that? Yes of course.
Yes I mean I think you just look at the trend line performance and we'll call out onetime items as we see them in future periods.
But that's I think the best indication.
The high-speed IP before Jeff gets into Netflix in particular as we said we've been saying now for a few quarters we continue to be pretty disciplined in pricing and continue -- and target the right kind of customers that those results the efforts of that are paying off.
And as we reported our IP revenues grew nicely 8-plus percent year-over-year.
Colby as you alluded in your question with respect to Netflix specifically our customers we see a natural evolution of many of our customers.
They start out buying IP transit from us.
And when they get to a certain size they decide they need to buy content distribution services from us content networking.
And then at some point maybe they go to waves or private lines or other types of services from us.
And we see that with Netflix.
With respect to them as a particular customer they're an important customer of ours.
They've helped us build our CDN capabilities globally.
They're less -- they're not even in our top 30 customers so the revenue impact is relatively small.
But we also see lots of opportunities to sell them the new services that you alluded to in higher-speed and higher capacity services.
With respect to just broader interconnection and how we will use the infrastructure that we have we have a number of customers who continue to use our IP services and the capabilities that we've built.
There's a new Netflix coming along.
I don't know what the next one will be but there are other companies out there trying to grow and trying to have the success that they've had.
We will continue to serve those customers use our infrastructure.
And we -- it's just part of the natural evolution of our business.
LLC Research Division</strong> So effectively even if customers like a Netflix start to connect directly with the last-mile ISPs your argument would be that there's a whole host of companies right behind them coming up that will continue to provide a growth opportunity for that specific segment of your business? Absolutely.
And if you look at Netflix I think they're a uniquely positioned company.
There aren't very many companies of that size that have the clout to negotiate with the big ISPs.
And we serve the entire industry.
Our next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Sunit you talked a little bit about strong usage trends.
Can you provide us a little bit more color about what's going on there and sustainability and sort of go back to 30 000 looking and what the exposure of your revenue stream is to usage versus sort of fixed price monthly contracts? And then just coming back to the revenues.
As we think about Q2 revenues versus Q1 are we still going to see that sort of 1% sequential growth or is there going to be a little bit of a headwind from the onetime this quarter? Thanks Simon.
So on the usage I think we first saw that in the fourth quarter that has continued in the first quarter.
Where is it coming from? So CDN high-speed IP enterprise CNS voice to some extent.
These are the main usage services we have.
The call operation is another one conferencing or collaboration as we call it.
So we saw it across the board.
Now one of the items that's worth mentioning we talk about how we cross-sell our services.
Usually when -- as you know the biggest growth driver for us has been our IP VPN business.
Typically after we turn up a customer's IP VPN network we do have the opportunity to then sell whether it's CDN voice or CNS voice.
So the classic cross-sell collaboration or conferencing.
Those are classic cross-sell opportunities.
So we're also seeing the benefit of follow-on sale opportunities with customers once we turn them up an IP VPN solution for that.
Some of it -- I mean I think that's a good quick summary and Jeff might have something to add.
With respect to Q2 yes I mean in general as I said based on trend line performance we continue to see growth in Q2.
I think the growth was a little stronger than we usually see in first quarter.
But even after you consider the onetime items I talk about we generally expect the business to be growing.
And as Jeff said we had good sales in the first quarter.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And percent of revenues that are coming from these usage-based services? I would say about 15% in that range roughly.
I mean if you look at high-speed IP and CDN from the bulk of them and then collaboration and CNS voice smaller in the scheme of things.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike McCormack with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe Sunit on the capital spending that's a little bit light versus the full-year guiding if you said you had sort of maybe pulled some revenue forward had some lumpy government stuff in there.
Just trying to get a sense for how comfortable we should be on the capital spending guide? And then secondly continued weakness and then down sequentially on colo and data center.
Can you just make a comment there regarding the competitive landscape and then maybe also on the pricing side? Sure.
So with respect to capital spending I think we continue to feel very comfortable with the 12% to 13% guidance we have given.
And as we've indicated in the past to the extent we see stronger revenue performance could be in the high end of the range but it's in that range.
And capital spending is a little lumpy.
First quarter is usually a little slower.
So I think we will be in that range.
As I mentioned in my notes we are continuing to invest on a whole bunch of initiatives.
Jeff mentioned that too.
On the colo revenue yes we did see sequentially down some of it -- most of it related to the fact that we had some back bills and dispute settlements on some colo customers in the fourth quarter.
So fourth quarter was a little lumpy.
If you look at the trend over several quarters you will see the fourth quarter jumped up a lot.
So I think if I were to exclude those I think the performance for colo has been steady the last couple of quarters.
In LatAm it was a little weaker.
We had one small disconnect in LatAm.
But in overall I think the LatAm business continues to do well.
So that doesn't worry us.
So yes if you pull out some of the lumpiness onetime items we had in the fourth quarter the business is steady which is why I think we were focused on year-over-year rates.
From a pricing and a competitive perspective I think that our thesis has always been that we don't typically sell colo on a standalone basis typically bundled with transport and other services we provide.
People buy usually about at least 3x more in bandwidth services compared to what they buy in colo services whenever we do that bundling.
So while there has been quite a bit of extra investment whether it's AWS or a bunch of other players I think we've been less susceptible to some of that.
And also our product has always been a lower-end colo product as opposed to a super-high premium much higher-priced dollar per kilowatt products.
So we're less susceptible to the pricing pressures that you might hear or see from other players.
Research Division</strong> So then maybe you can just think a quick comment also on the enterprise pricing.
Some of the bigger competitors out there have been calling out continued demand weakness because of the economy but also one of them was pointing out significant pricing pressures as well on enterprise.
Are you guys seeing the same thing? No we're not seeing pricing pressure in the enterprise business because I think what's happening is from an incumbent perspective as Jeff pointed as our customers look to more cloud-based services they're doing it because they are saving money and it gives them more bandwidth better communications solution than some of the legacy solutions they have.
And I think as they move towards that that's what they are saving money on.
So as Jeff pointed out our market share is so low for us.
On an incremental basis it's very profitable business good returns.
And the pricing compared to how we might have priced the same services a year ago hasn't really changed much.
So we like the pricing environment.
That's right.
And we don't ever see the macro environment at this point in our company really being a driver.
I've said it for many many quarters that our ability to grow is based on our ability to execute.
And we continue to execute.
We continue to grow.
And pricing is good for the products and services that we sell.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Talk to us a little bit about some of the non-headcount expenses.
Can you give us a little bit more color on what that is? And then you -- so you mentioned some of the cross-sell opportunities that you're getting.
What's different now versus in the past? It seems like that opportunity would have been around in the past.
Is there a change in how you directed the sales force or different management focus? I mean what's allowing you to get those upsides cross-sells now versus historically? Take the first? Yes I'll take the first question.
On the non-headcount stuff I think that we have continued to be fairly aggressive working between our procurement organization and all -- the rest of the operations organization in being more proactive around vendor management and how we do that.
So we're squeezing in a lot of the outside vendors.
The other area that we have stepped up investment in is to buy out some of our key locations where we are paying rent expenses to and typically historically have been subject to high increases whenever those leases come up.
So we've spent several tens of millions of dollars a year buying out facilities.
So that is helping reduce our lease expense.
We're also closing down duplicate facilities as a result of all the various acquisitions we've done.
Typically in a city we might have several facilities and consolidating that saves rent power property taxes.
So those are the 2 big drivers on the non-headcount-related expenses.
And then Frank with respect to your question on cross-sell upsell we and other companies can get distracted by focusing on salespeople numbers.
And what we've really tried to do over the last year 1.5 years is focus on productivity coming out of the sales force that we have.
We want to continue to grow our sales force.
We will continue to focus on that but we want to increase the productivity.
When you change that mindset you start thinking about what can we do how can we combine our products and services together to come up with solutions that solve our customers' challenges? I mentioned in my comments earlier our Video Cloud offer.
That's really a combination of 3 of our individual products and services to meet a solution for global content distribution.
And that creates great cross-sell and upsell.
And as we perform as we get a good experience as we sell IP VPN services then there's the natural follow-ons that Sunit and I both mentioned Voice Complete which is SIP-based product unified threat management.
They're natural extensions of those based services and we're trying to take advantage of that.
And organizing our marketing efforts our targeting efforts our product development efforts our sales force execution organizing all of those different pieces around really growing profitable growth.
Our next question comes from the line of Donna Jaegers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> So 2 quick questions.
Sunit on the contract -- or the contract the one-timers those are -- it's still monthly recurring revenue right? So you just sort of pulled it forward but it's not like it's going to drop out of the next quarter or anything like that is that correct? That's correct.
These are recurring revenues but on some of these contracts days there are nonrecurring upfront portion.
So there's a little bit of that.
So they are recurring you're absolutely right.
And then the other thing...
Research Division</strong> And that was the high single-digits was the installation piece? Well there's some of that and the strong usage growth that we saw in the quarter.
So I mean again it's a rough estimate.
These things are tough to say.
You don't -- we don't know if usage goes down or what happens just pointing it out because it was unusual compared to other first quarters that we've reported in the past.
So we just want to point that out.
But certainly the earlier-than-expected revenue recognition on the government contracts is recurring revenue.
But there was an upfront portion and so the 2 things I highlighted add up to that high single-digit earnings of ours.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question for both of you and Jeff I guess.
On the wholesale grooming obviously with AT&amp;T closing on the Leap transaction now they could groom off -- Leap could groom off your network in the second half.
How much visibility do you have as far as timing on grooming? And can you talk a little bit -- obviously you're expecting -- I think you built into expectations that wholesale will continue to decline sort of at this pace going forward.
Is that the correct assumption? Yes it is.
And if you look at visibility we manage churn with some of those customers as aggressively as we manage sales.
We don't always have great visibility but if you look historically things shift off slower than most people expect.
And we do a good job to make sure that we do that that we work with the customers help them do the migrations but also make it easy for them to continue to do services with us and augment their capabilities.
Oftentimes they will need more capabilities in a certain area than they had before because of the acquisition.
So we work with them on both sides both in managing the churn which typically moves off slower than we expect and then also managing the new sales opportunities with them.
That wholesale we see is flat to slightly declining and the trend that we've been talking about for the last few quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi Investment Group.
Research Division</strong> I was curious just following up on some of the questions around volume and revenue performance.
In the enterprise segment I was wondering if you can give us some more specificity on how much revenue growth whether you want to look at it sequentially or year-over-year came from new customers versus what may have come from existing customers spending more with you? Yes that's always -- let me give you -- Sunit can maybe speak to specific numbers but I'll give you a little context.
Generally most of our revenue comes from existing customers.
And that's part of our strategy right? We sell them a little bit we prove our capabilities we get a wedge into their business and then we grow with them.
And so we add new logos every single quarter.
We're focused on adding new logos because we know that's our growth engine as the leading indicator of our ability to grow.
But generally most come from existing customers.
Yes Jeff's correct.
I would say probably 80% of our revenues come from existing customers.
And in -- with the existing customers our market share is pretty low.
We typically add hundreds of new logos every quarter in terms of new customers.
But the first business we win with the new customer is typically smaller.
And as they get to know us and have confidence in us and we get bigger opportunities we can go after.
So I think that will continue to be the case.
But the overall message is our market share whether it's existing customers is still pretty low.
So we see plenty of opportunity to grow even within the existing customer base and while at the same time adding new logos that provide that fuel -- continue to provide fuel for future growth.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up above and beyond what you're doing organically can you describe some of the opportunities that Level 3 has to scale up the business through acquisition? Is that still a significant opportunity for you? Are you large enough now where it's just much more about the organic revenue growth going forward? Sure.
We are certainly focused on organic revenue growth.
If you look at our company there've been $40 billion worth of investment in the assets that now make up Level 3.
We think that gives us great scope and scale globally.
I think it gives us deep penetration in the markets that we serve.
And so we're very focused on organic growth.
Having said that there are always inorganic opportunities as well to sell out our networks to expand our networks to add products to add customers to capture synergies for multiple companies doing the same thing.
And we will continue to be opportunistic about inorganic growth as well.
But we're clearly focused on organic growth and delivering for our customers a unique customer experience so they continue to buy more and more services from us.
And we're pleased with the progress we're making on that.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Funk with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple.
First you commented on some initiatives to improve operating platforms.
Related to that maybe you can comment on incremental streamlining opportunities both on the -- maybe on the platform and the headcount side if you continue to evaluate the business.
And then second maybe an update on the timing of utilization of the NOL that'd be helpful.
Okay on the platform side well there are -- we're a complicated business.
Telecommunications is a complicated business.
And we work on our platforms and want to continue to evolve our platforms to match the changing environment of our customers and the changing product mix and service mix that we sell.
And so it's everything from billing to provisioning to inventory to quoting.
It's the whole array of processes and systems that we look at and that we're trying to make sure that we're effectively streamlined.
My goal is for us to be able to continue our growth in revenue and continue our growth serving our customers without having to continually expand our workforce see if we can improve our productivity to where we can grow revenue and top line at one rate that drive EBITDA and free cash flow at a different rate and really use our leverage.
And we've talked about our operating leverage for a very long time and it's something that certainly works in our favor when it comes to growth.
Okay.
And Michael on NOL utilization we certainly don't expect to utilize our NOL this year.
It'll probably be sometime next year that we'll start utilizing our U.S.
net operating loss carryforwards which is as we mentioned in the 10-K over $9 billion.
So thank you all for your questions.
I think we don't have any other questions in the queue.
So before we end the call though I'd like to leave you with a few thoughts.
Level 3 is a growth company.
As part of our 3-year operating plan we have a number of initiatives to drive profitable growth.
We're focused on adding product and service capabilities to meet the complex needs of enterprises.
We're focused on expanding on the network to broaden our addressable market.
Behind the scenes we're focused on a number of projects to improve our operational efficiency making it easier for our customers to interact with us making it easier for our employees to serve those customers overall reducing our costs and improving our customer experience.
I'd like to sum it up by saying that we started the year on a good note but we still have a lot of work to do.
The strategy that we've developed is working and our focus on execution across the business will enable us to meet our financial goals.
As I've mentioned we continue to focus on driving free cash flow growth on a per share basis.
As always we appreciate your interest in Level 3.
And operator that concludes the call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday July 29 2014.
Its now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Maam.
Thank you Puma [ph].
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications second quarter 2014 earnings call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings materials that accompany this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at investors.level3.com.
Growth rates disclosed in our presentation and remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted.
Also revenue comparisons to prior period are provided on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement that begins on Page 2 of our 2Q 14 earnings presentation.
This presentation and remarks contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results can be found in Level 3s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will also be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation as well as on our website.
With that Ill turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As you can see from the results we announced this morning we delivered another solid quarter of growth.
Our results demonstrate that our focus on profitable growth and in particular delivering differentiated solutions and a differentiated customer experience for enterprises is working.
We continue to increase the spend from our existing customers consistently add new enterprise customers and are keenly focused on growing our share of the enterprise communications market.
As youve heard me say in the past enterprises are transitioning from legacy services to more efficient scalable and secure technology platforms.
To assist in that transition we are developing and delivering the right products services and solutions continually improving the customer experience and enabling our customers to manage their business growth while Level 3s solutions enhanced their networking capabilities.
While we are clearly delivering results as a standalone company and well remain focused on doing so we believe the combination of Level 3 and tw telecom we announced in June will make us an even stronger competitor in the enterprise market and enhances our position as a premier global communications provider.
On the call this morning after Sunit provides an overview of the financial results for the quarter Ill provide additional insights into the integration planning process and where we are focused for the rest of the year.
After that we will open it up for your questions.
With that Ill turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
Im pleased to say that we delivered another solid quarter or financial results with further improvement in revenue growth.
As summarized on Slide 3 we saw strong performance in enterprise core network services which grew 11%.
CNS revenue grew 6.9% while total revenue grew 3.5%.
Excluding tw telecom transaction-related fees of approximately $4 million Adjusted EBITDA grew to $463 million in the second quarter.
Additionally we generated free cash flow of $62 million in the quarter.
With the strong performance in the first half of 2014 we remain confident in our outlook for the full year 2014.
Turning to revenue on Slide 4 CNS revenues grew to 6.9% to $1.479 billion primarily as a result of strong Enterprise CNS revenue growth which continues to be driven from growth in IPVP and transport in the high-speed IP services.
Also CNS revenue declined 0.9% this quarter.
As we previously indicated we generally expect slight declines in wholesale CNS revenue given continued industry consolidation.
On a regional basis North America continue to show strong growth as CNS revenue grew 8.3% and Enterprise CNS revenue grew 13%.
EMEA CNS revenue declined 1.8% while enterprise CNS revenue increased 2.2%.
Excluding UK government Enterprise CNS revenue grew 8.1%.
Overall we continue to work on stabilizing the revenue for the region while increasing profitability every quarter.
In addition we are executing on a number of product and expansion initiatives to position us for better revenue performance next year.
Revenue in our Latin America region continues to grow nicely.
Overall CNS and Enterprise CNS revenue both grew 10%.
With respect to Venezuela as we indicated last quarter we switched to the SICAD 1 rate of 10.6 bolivars to the U.S.
dollar from the official bolivar rate of 6.3.
These changes altered in a devaluation loss of $34 million or $0.14 per share related primarily to our second quarter 2014 cash balance of $74 million denominated in bolivars.
Well continue to closely monitor the situation in Venezuela.
Wholesale Voice Services in other or WVS revenue declined to $146 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to $186 million in the second quarter of 2013.
As we have indicated we expect double-digit declines in WVS revenues for the full year 2014 compared to 2013 as we continue to manage the business for margin contribution.
Turning to revenue results by product group on an as-reported basis we saw continued momentum in our IP and data services which grew 13% as our enterprise customers continue to purchase networking solutions.
VPN high-speed IP CDN and managed services were the main drivers of growth in this product group.
CDN revenue grew 17% transport and fiber grew 5.8% voice services grew 2.2% and colocation and datacenter services grew approximately 1%.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the second quarter 2014 CNS revenue churn was approximately 1.4% an improvement in the churn rate of 1.5% in the second quarter of 2013.
Turning to Slide 5 our gross margin expanded to 62.3% compared to 60.6% in the second quarter of 2013.
The improvement in gross margin continues to be driven by higher CNS revenue growth and WVS revenue declines as well as our continued initiatives around network cost optimization.
Turning to SG&amp;A excluding non-cash compensation expense SG&amp;A expenses were $553 million for the second quarter of 2014.
This included $4 million of tw telecom transaction-related fees.
Also in the quarter we saw the effects of companywide merit increases Latin America inflation adjustments and the addition of customer facing employees as we turn up more service.
SG&amp;A expense for the second quarter of 2013 was $564 million on a pro forma basis adjusted to include $15 million in bonus-related non-cash compensation expense and to exclude $13 million of severance charges.
On Slide 6 second quarter Adjusted EBITDA was $459 million  $463 million excluding $4 million of transaction-related fees.
This compares to Adjusted EBITDA on a pro forma basis of $385 million in the second quarter of 2013.
The increase is driven by high-margin CNS revenue growth as well as the benefit from headcount reductions and other cost initiatives in 2013.
Year-to-date Adjusted EBITDA has grown 21% compared to first half of last year.
Adjusted EBITDA margin improved to 28.5% compared to 24.6% on a pro forma basis for the second quarter 2013.
Capital expenditures were $241 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to $208 million in the second quarter 2013.
Year-to-date capital expenditures as a percent of total revenue were 12% and we continue to target 12% to 13% for the full year.
Turning to Slide 7 the company generated free cash flow of $62 million in the quarter we are pleased with the strong improvement free cash flow on a rolling four quarter basis ending June 2014 was positive $147 million compared to negative $109 million for the four rolling quarters ended June 2013.
Turning to Slide 8 as a result of the growth in Adjusted EBITDA we exited the quarter with our net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio at 4.4x this compares to 4.6x at the end of last quarter and 5.1x at the end of the second quarter of 2013.
We remain focused on getting to the lower end of our target leverage range of 3x to 5x as of June 30 2014 with cash of $637 million.
Moving on to our outlook on Slide 9 we remain confident in our performance for the rest of the year.
One indicator is our second quarter sales orders which were up sequentially compared to the first quarter.
Excluding the effects of tw telecom transaction on a standalone basis we are reiterating our outlook for the full year 2014.
We expect CNS revenue growth for the full year 2014 to be higher than the full year 2013.
We expect Adjusted EBITDA to grow 14% to 18% for the full year 2014 and expect to generate free cash flow of $250 million to $300 million for the full year 2014.
All of the other guidance measures detailed on this slide also remain unchanged.
In the third quarter 2014 we expect to see a typical increase in utility costs in the high single-digit millions of dollars as a result of the higher summer cooling requirement in our datacenters.
In summary we feel very good about the progress we made this year towards our financial objectives.
Additionally we are excited about the tw telecom transaction and it remains on-track for closure in the fourth quarter.
With that Ill turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
Our results this quarter are pretty straight forward.
We raised CNS Enterprise revenue in all three regions extended gross margins had strong Adjusted EBITDA growth and we continue to increase free cash flow on a per share basis.
I wont add much to Sunits comments but Im pleased that our performance in the quarter speaks for itself and to our progress in becoming the premier global communications provider of choice for enterprises around the world.
Turning to the tw telecom acquisition we kicked off the integration planning process shortly after the acquisition was announced.
Weve established an integration team with representatives from both companies covering each functional area of the business and those teams are building a comprehensive integration plan.
As a first step in something we thought was important to do early last week we announced the executive team that will lead the company after-close.
We are very fortunate to have an excellent set of executives to build the combined company.
This gives us a great opportunity to form a diverse team with diverse perspectives.
Although well all be Level 3 employees the day after closing I believe its important to have executives from acquired companies on the senior team to really build the culture of the organization and the focus on the execution that we expect.
As I look to the overall leadership team after closing well have a good mix of executives from these companies that roughly represents our employee base.
Well have one executive from WilTel two from tw telecom three from Global Crossing and four from Legacy Level 3.
Im very excited that upon closing John Blount tw telecoms President and COO will join as the Regional President at North America and Asia Pacific and Harold Teets tw telecoms Senior Vice President of Information and Network Technologies will become the Global CIO for the combined company.
As we identify the rest of the go-forth [ph] organization we will continue to select the best people from each company.
Our priority for the remainder of this year is to continue executing as a standalone business as we prepare for the closing of the tw telecom acquisition.
Looking beyond 2014 and what we need to do to enable future performance Im largely focused on three areas that are key to the continued growth of Level 3.
I want to spend a moment walking you through these priorities for our executive team.
The first obviously successfully integrating Level 3 in tw telecom.
We are tying together one of the worlds most sophisticated and extensive local long haul and global networks with one of North Americas premier domestic networks.
We want to ensure we maximize the capabilities of each company and continue to deliver strong growth and an excellent customer experience.
To that end we selected John Blount to leave the new North America organization after closing.
John is intimately familiar with tw telecoms business and was a key architect of their local model.
John has a track record of delivering results and a deep understanding of the innovative products and services tw telecom delivers to its enterprise customers.
I believe John will be a valuable asset to my team and Im excited about the opportunity to deliver Level 3s products and global capabilities to tw telecoms customers.
In addition tw telecoms strong local footprint their demonstrated ability to add profitable new buildings their focus on the customer experience and their drive for innovative yet simplified products will benefit Level 3 and our customers.
As we look at the sales force we have two excellent and experienced sales teams which I believe are the best in the industry.
Putting these two great teams together will enable us to more completely cover the addressable market and enhance our ability to grow.
As a reminder prior to closing John is also the lead from tw telecom in the integration planning process with John and Lorinda Panes leadership we have started evaluating the people systems and process capabilities of each company.
Our goal is to select the go-forward platforms and organization and begin the migration planning process before the transaction closes.
Simplifying our operating environment while delivering on operational excellence and the customer experience remain key principles of our approach to integration.
The second area where we are focused is EMEA and how to live up to our full potential in that region.
EMEA is one of the worlds largest economies and given our low market share we have tremendous opportunities for growth.
Weve made good progress these last couple of quarters with Sunit as the interim lead but we have more to do to maximize growth and capture share in the region.
I believe Andrew Crouch is the right leader to make this happen.
As Regional President of North America Andrew has been instrumental in driving the strong enterprise growth weve seen in North America.
Having also worked for BT and Concert he brings global experience to this role.
Andrew has been with Level 3 since 2001 and his knowledge of the company is invaluable.
While were showing steady growth in enterprise revenue in EMEA those results have been primarily driven by success in the UK.
I believe we can do a much better job in the rest of EMEA.
Andrew will also be responsible for the largest of our global accounts.
His intimate knowledge of our global customers and the global market makes him the ideal executive to lead our global account management or GAM team.
For those of you who may have meet Andrew you already know that he is originally from U.K.
and he will be moving back to London with his family after the transaction closes.
However between now and close Sunit remains the interim EMEA lead while Andrew focuses on delivering a strong finish to the year in North America.
The third area of focus is how to best position the company for future growth.
I think weve done a good job meeting enterprise customers needs but we need to ensure we understand and are planning for where the market is going.
As I mentioned earlier enterprise is there in the midst of a technology transition across an increasingly complex threat-filled and global landscape enterprise is one that seamlessly connect all aspects of their business operation whether its enabling their employees to work together accessing data and applications that maybe stored in the cloud collaborating more effectively with their customers or integrating more closely with their suppliers.
To provide the networking foundation that ties all of these capabilities together and to better position Level 3 as our customers global provider we are focused on mapping out the right products networks and platforms as the evolution of enterprise needs accelerate.
To that end we believe it is important to have close collaboration between the teams that manage our products our technology platforms and our IT infrastructure.
The outcome of that collaboration will help pave the way to ensure we meet customers evolving needs and position Level 3 for future growth.
The executive team that will address these issues after closing is well suited to help us achieve our goals.
With Anthony Christie as Chief Marketing Officer which includes product development and management; Jack Waters as Chief Technology Officer and Harold Teet as Chief Information Officer I believe we will have the right team to ensure we are innovating and delivering for our customers.
Im excited to be adding Harold to the team after closing.
He has been a clear driving of the tw telecom operational environment an environment I believe that serves its customers well.
From a regulatory perspective weve completed all of the necessary initial regulatory filings and expect that transaction will close in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In summary we had a solid second quarter.
As we look to the rest of the year I believe we are well positioned to continue to deliver strong results.
With that we will open it up for your questions.
Operator would you explain the process.
Certainly Sir.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Colby Synesael from Cowen and Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Great thank you.
I had two so  just in light of whats going on today Im sure you saw the insanity taking place across the telecom this morning as it relates to Windstreams decision to spin-up some of its business to go  turn that into a REIT.
Im curious if in fact we start to see this become more prevalent in the telecom space if this is something that you would consider and how you would think about your NOLs as it relates to potentially that consideration? The second question more in line with your actual results your bookings you noted were up quarter-over-quarter.
Can you just remind us whats typical and  I believe they are up quarter-over-quarter last year maybe it would be helpful to kind of talk about the degree in terms of growth rate if thats something you feel comfortable talking to us about just looking to get a sense of momentum there.
Thanks.
Okay.
Hi Colby its Sunit.
So on the REIT  that announcement this morning helped the entire sector as you know this is our first year to be turning free cash flow positive so tough for us to comment well see how things season in the marketplace over the next few quarters.
We have no current plans on becoming a REIT but certainly a very interesting development with the ruling from the IRS so well just monitor that over the next few quarters.
With respect to NOLs as youve pointed out we have $9.1 billion of NOL so we recently dont have any issues relating to not paying our U.S.
Federal income taxes for quite a while.
The conversion to a REIT does attract a new class of investors then you see that benefit in some of these stock prices so nothing more to add other than that.
On the sales bookings as I pointed out our bookings were up sequentially in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
I dont think they have meaningful increase as such I think its just an indicate that the momentum in our business continues to be good and we typically see high churn in the earlier part of the year than we see in the later part of the year.
So it just gives us confidence for the outlook that we have for the year.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed Sir.
Thank you very much good morning.
Jeff Im wondering if you could talk about EMEA a little bit more.
Now that youve got a lot more scale with tw telecom do you think there is an up [ph] in your free cash flow building it was an opportunity to build your asset position internationally or do you think its to really get the traction you are looking for there do you need more assets to complete on that? And secondly on the CapEx in Q2 it was obviously up versus last quarter though youre staying within your guidance perhaps you just give a little bit of color around what was the volatility quarter-to-quarter and what we should expect Q3 Q4? Thanks.
Sure.
With respect to EMEA and this comments applies to North America and Latin America we believe that the capillarity of our networks is extremely important the more local networks we have the more we can tie customers directly to Level 3 its important and you see us over the past few years have consistently invested and continually expanding the networks and we will continue to do that in EMEA.
As I mentioned in my comments we have not yet reached our full potential particularly on the continent of Europe and we will continue to invest to make sure that we reach our customers the pockets of demand that are in those markets and that were serving our target customers and in particular enterprise customers effectively.
So yes well continue to invest in expanding.
On the CapEx question Simon as you know our CapEx tends to be lumpy for various different reasons in different quarters for various things.
Weve been investing for expansions investing for new product initiatives sometimes we invest to buy some of our facilities to reduce future increases in expenses so we had some lumpiness in the second quarter but thats why we always focus on the year-to-date number and I think thats really the right metric with respect to CapEx.
And how should we think about CapEx as emerged entity obviously tw had a much higher level of capital intensities.
If were I to think about the blend at their multiple  their percent your percent less of that CapEx synergy number so getting to sort of a mid-teens number? Yes I think thats a fair way to think about it.
Having said that I think that what remains to be seen is how much we can lower the average cost to add a building by the fact that  its driven by the fact that since both of us have a network in a certain geography we might have lower forward time and the cost to tap into a building is because we have network closer to buildings than we had as standalone company.
So that could provide some benefit overtime.
Great thank you.
Thank you Sir.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Michael Funk Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed Sir.
Yes thank you for taking the questions two quick ones.
You commented on your  I mean your ex-U.K is still seeing a bit of a drag over there obviously soon its invested some time.
Maybe you could comment on where you are seeing pockets of demand and what the gadding factors are to accelerating revenue in growth? And then just maybe second you talked about potential to reduce connection cost per building with the combined company how about expanding the addressable market with the combined company in terms of reallocating sales force assets expanding product set geography and how youre thinking about that? Its Sunit Ill cover the EMEA question and then Jeff can cover the addressable market with both the companys network.
So with EMEA I think that there are several key things one I think weve stabilized the U.K.
government revenues there is always some risks on legacy contracts you could see some risks next year but its become both a smaller piece of the pie and its been relatively stable.
The enterprise business has been a consistent grower we faced declines in the wholesale side and I think as we look forward there is probably a little more to grow in terms of legacy churn.
Having said that let me speak about some of the various product initiatives that weve got in place there that should help us position us for growth next year.
So the whole race over IP SIP trunking is an initiative thats in play that should benefit us next year.
We have reenergized our Vyvx [ph] in EMEA that should start to see yields and benefit late in the year.
We have been making more aggressive investments in CDN I think that should help us from a revenue fill  I mean from CDN later this year and next year.
We are also working on putting more initiative and effort in our security business in EMEA those investments will take place later this year so all of that should help position us for better top line growth.
We are looking to continue our efforts of adding  expanding into new geographies and overtime as Jeff had mentioned building on more macro network capability on the continent I think those are handful of things were focused on to try and improve our performance there.
From a EBITDA perspective weve been making quite aggressive investments to reduce our expenses of utility cost to reduce our expenses on rent cost which is why I said that from the beginning of the year were generally posting improvements in our EBITDA performance in EMEA we think that will continue for the rest of the year.
So I think were doing well on the EBITDA side on revenue performance we are making the investments to position us better for revenue growth next year.
With respect to expanding our addressable market thats a big focus for us Im making sure that our sales team and the combined sales team covers the market effectively.
So we will work very diligently to retain all of our sales people from both of the companies after closing and well try and use them effectively to cover the addressable market.
If you think about expanding it were building ads that Sunit talked about tw telecom has a very good track record of being able to do that combining the organizations we think well be able to continue to expand our addressable market.
If you think about their buildings tw telecom has 21 000 buildings in North America preliminary estimates are that less than 10% of those buildings overlap with Level 3 that does a significant job of expanding our addressable market right there.
And as I mentioned with respect to EMEA we are always focused on continuing to build that networks to our customer locations to the purls of demand around the world and making sure that we have the right products and services and solutions for our customers in all of those locations.
Proceed Sir [ph].
Hey guys its Scott Goldman [ph] on for Mike.
I guess just a question around CNS near a 7% growth I think in each of the first couple of quarters.
Similarly I think EBITDA also both churning sort of well above the ranges that youve laid out for the year or the half of the year or so.
Just wondering if there is anything we should be thinking about as we go into the back of second half I think tends to be stronger than the first half.
So  just curious on anything on that front.
Thanks.
Yes I think nothing has changed with respect to prior year type trends.
The only thing again just to underline is that we do see the increase in our utility cost in the third quarter so that does impact us negatively in the third quarter.
And then from a year-over-year comparison just keep in mind also that we did take some action in the third quarter of last year that helped reduced or impacted beneficially headcount related actions that helped  we took out about $15 million of quarter EBITDA run rate cost that helped us in the fourth quarter.
So just keep that in mind when you look at year-on-year comparisons.
But yes as we look at the second half of the year from an EBITDA perspective the only thing is utility cost go up in the third quarter always be the reverse themselves [ph] in the fourth quarter.
But from the revenue front I mean typically weve seen sort of back half of the year tend to be stronger than the first half is there anything that would change that sort of outlook this year anything in  terms of some of the turbulence or anything you might be seeing there? Well in any given quarter you always have some lumpiness but I think the only thing outside is remember that in the first quarter we did have some stronger than usual revenues because of some one-time revenues we had with U.S.
government contract that we talked about last quarter but other than that nothing different with trends remain intact.
Okay.
And then one quick question on tw telecom transaction.
I think we go back to the global crossing deal few years back one of the things that came out of that was some pretty high working capital used on the back of managing some of the payables from the Global Crossing side.
Is there anything we should be thinking about from the working capital side of the equation as we get further along and we look at in the greediness post close that we should be aware of? I dont think so.
I think tw telecom historically has done an excellent job of paying the vendors on a very timely basis.
So we dont expect any issues like that.
They are also doing a good job on the receivable side so I think its fairly very well managed company.
We dont anticipate any working capital uses like the kind we saw in Global Crossing.
Great thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And continuing on our next question comes from the line of Kevin Smithen [ph] the Macquarie Group.
Please proceed Sir.
Yes on the OpEx line we saw cost begin to increase sequentially even telecom [ph] how should we think about the OpEx progression as standalone business over the next few quarters? And can you quantify the extra cooling cost in Q2 and I guess in Q3? And then on the CapEx side you left the full year guidance and changes despite the higher Q2 I guess the question would why wouldnt you pull in CapEx into 2014 ahead of the merger and spend less next year which would help your free cash flow pro forma? Okay so quite a few questions hopefully I will get through all of them.
On the SG&amp;A cost as we indicated last quarter that wed see the impact of companywide merit increases in Latin America guidance inflation adjustments we said that would be about $6 million of increase in the quarter sequentially we saw that.
I also mentioned in my comments that we added some more people as we done more service.
So the impact of that for the rest of the year essentially the utility cost increase as we said in the third quarter we expect our utility cost to grow by high single digit millions of dollars consistent with what weve seen in prior years not much impact through the second quarter meaning small so we dont generally focus on that that increase reverses itself in the fourth quarter.
With respect to CapEx as we said none of our guidance includes impact from TW well talk about that as we record every quarter.
Our CapEx guidance typically is  focuses on the full year which is 12% to 13% of revenue year-to-date we are about 12% so since all within the north of the range of the guidance we provided and as we sit here in July we continue to be comfortable with that outcome which is why wed be raising them.
Great good job on the revenue side very nice.
Thank you.
Thank you Sir.
And our next question comes from the line of Donna Jaegers from D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good job guys.
On Latin America can  was there much of a benefit from the World Cup and if so can you sort of  was it a few million dollars or can you give us a little more detail there? First of all the World Cup was an exciting event for us to sport as good revenue but its small in the overall scheme of our business that there is not really much to say.
Were excited that they choose us and they are relatively small numbers Donna.
Okay.
And then on wholesale  well before we leave Latin America enterprise growth slowed down a little quarter-over-quarter grew 13% year-over-year in the first quarter on constant currency and then was up 10% this quarter.
Is there anything we should worry about this for us for the slowing or is that just a little seasonality? Yes I think there is nothing unusual in any given quarter unless some volatility quarter-to-quarter but nothing unusual they have been fairly consistent with double digit growth.
Okay.
And then on EMEA on wholesale because you guys have already sort of addressed the enterprise growth  wholesale is shrinking a little faster there are you  is that all pricing or youre getting hit by consolidation and after losing traffic? I think some of that has been consolidation some of that has been legacy contracts going away.
I think well see some bumpiness and also I think that it is beginning to stabilize  well see that more late this year next year but nothing unusual  its as you mentioned declined a little more than we would have liked but its for good reasons but we think that will improve over the next year.
Great and then one last question on the U.S.
wholesale business obviously with AT&amp;T buying cricket and I would assume cricket was probably riding in your network have you seen that impact from consolidation yet on your numbers in North America? Well given the size of our wholesale business its always a mixed bag with consolidation.
You do see some shrinkage in different box  with various wholesale customers on the other hand there are also bright pockets with respect to people needing more metro capability especially on the wireless side which has always been a gold spot for us.
So I think some of these things also take time this connects do happen.
So in any given quarter youre seeing impacts from consolidations that might have taken place one or two years ago and you might not be seeing the impacts of consolidation that have taken place recently its always a mixed bag every quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks Sunit.
Thanks Jeff.
Sure.
Thank you for your question.
And our next question comes from the line of Barry Sign from Jaksville Hamilton [ph].
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning gentlemen.
Obviously very strong enterprise growth in both North America and EMEA I wanted to dive into little further and understand perhaps some of the underlying drivers and maybe if you could comment on the four specific areas.
Are you seeing significant growth in customer account number of customers whats going on in terms of pricing? I noticed IP data services revenue up 14% is that price driven volume driven? Sales force are you growing the sales force is the bigger headcount? And then sales force productivity are we seeing more sales people or more productive sales people or some combination there? Thanks.
Well tag team this answer.
The answer is a little bit different for each and every region.
Well give you the overall answer for the company rather than addressing each one of those points for each region.
We are seeing new customers growing we are winning in the marketplace our solutions for enterprise customers solve the needs of their businesses help them grow help them efficiently manage their cost help them achieve their business objectives.
And so we see that resonating with enterprise customers around the world you mentioned specifically EMEA and North America Latin has had consistent double digit growth for a number of quarters and so we see that resonating with customers around the world.
So yes we add new customers on a regular basis.
Most of our new sales come from existing customers because we have lead strategy with new customers get a little bit of their business prove our capabilities and then they buy more from us overtime and so we see that continuing.
From an IP data perspective its  you asked whether its volume or pricing its mostly volume.
Our customers are buying IV VPN services from us at Fast Clip [ph] they buy other services.
From an IP VPN perspective it gives us great opportunity in the future product sale.
If you think about the types of products and services we sell we sell IP VPN as the basic transport infrastructure for our customers and then we can layer on whether its voice complete or managed services or professional services or managed security our cloud  Level 3 cloud connect ecosystem we continue to layer those on top of our IP and data services IP VPN transport.
From a sales force perspective we continue to add sales people were very excited about the after closing the ability to combine the tw telecom and Level 3 sales team together.
We think they are both excellent sales teams and well continue to grow from there.
In Latin and EMEA we continue to add sales focused on enterprise.
So there is volume expected going forward.
If you look at our results its relatively little coming from new sales people volume that weve added its mostly productivity increases and improvements so were pretty pleased with our efforts there and well continue to focus on how do we add more sales people how do we more effectively cover the addressable market and how do we improve their effectiveness so the productivity can go up.
Thats a great thorough answer.
Just shifting gears on the Windstream announcement this morning I wanted to ask your perspective as a customer wholesale customer in many cases like assets [ph].
How do you view that transaction I noticed and I dont think the details are fully flushed out but they talked about as an exclusive lease agreement.
Do you see an opportunity in this or perhaps other REIT transactions of like assets as an opportunity for you to improve your position as a buyer in many cases of wholesale telecom asset? Yes I would say look were all  nobody is in the same ecosystem we all utilize each others networks cost of sales and networks expenses  biggest cost for all of us with Windstream and other providers generally we have a pretty good relationship than being customer browse and us being suppliers or customers are there [ph].
So we dont see this change as really changing anything from an operational perspective we think its neutral we think its something beneficial for all the reasons weve talked about all the market but it shouldnt change our relationships with Windstream or other people that consider this kind of move.
Okay thank you gentlemen.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from the line of Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Could you just expand a little bit on how youre looking at channel partners and so forth with the various sales organizations better in the Level 3 side and the tw telecom side? And how youre progressing on those relationships as you close the transaction? Well I will speak to Level 3 I wont speak to after the close thats one of the areas that we really wait until after we actually close to start looking at and evaluating.
But from a Level 3 perspective we believe in channel partners its a forced multiplier for our sales organization and weve worked over the past few years to establish strong relationships.
We think that channel partners in often times have very very good customer relationships that  when they choose Level 3 to provide their services we get the benefit of those customer relationships.
So weve focused on them as an efficient and effective way of expanding our sales force and meeting the needs of the addressable market.
And we also focus on making sure that the acquisition costs associated with channel partners are in line with what our expectations are and so well continue to do that going forward we will look more at these types of things customer-related things sales-related things after the close and as we actually close on tw telecom.
That was great thank you.
Thank you.
With that if there are no other questions Id like to leave you with a few thoughts.
The Level 3 team remains highly focused on delivering a strong 2014.
Were focused on driving profitable growth and increasing free cash flow on a per share basis.
Our ability to grow enterprise revenue and to continue to take market share is central to our strategy and we believe we are on the right path to enable future growth.
Further we believe that combination with tw telecom will strengthen our position in the market and enhance our ability to gain market share.
Were excited about the senior leadership team weve established for the combined company.
And lastly integration planning is well underway and we remain on track to close the tw telecom transaction in the fourth quarter.
I look forward to updating you on our progress in our third quarter call and as always we appreciate your interest in Level 3.
Operator that concludes the call.
Thank you Sir.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you all for your participation and also you please disconnect.
Thank you once again.
Have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday November 5 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Valerie Finberg.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications third quarter 2014 earnings call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I would like to draw your attention the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at investors.level3.com.
On this site are the presentation materials that accompany this call the earnings press release and supplemental financial information as well as tw telecoms supplemental information and presentations that historically accompany the tw telecom earnings call.
Please note that the information provided for tw telecom results are on a standalone basis and are not included in Level 3s reported results and are all based on tw telecoms definitions for the metrics provided.
The growth rates disclosed in our presentation and remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted.
Revenue comparisons to prior period are provided on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement that begins on Page 2 of 3Q 14 earnings presentation.
This presentation and remarks contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results can be found in Level 3s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will also be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation as well as our website.
With that I will turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As you can see from our third quarter results we continue to maintain our single mindedness on driving profitable growth.
I would like to start by thanking John Blount and Andrew Crouch for keeping their respective North America teams focused over the past several months in spite of the many distractions of integration planning.
That focus allowed both companies to maintain momentum and deliver solid quarters.
As a result tw telecoms overall revenue and Level 3s North America Core Network Services revenue both grew 8%.
When we announced the transaction back in June I was confident that we were choosing the right path for the success of the company over the long-term.
After several months of detailed planning my excitement about the combined company is as high as ever.
The combination of tw telecom and Level 3 brings together two great customer focused companies both demonstrating strong growth.
It brings the entire global footprint and product portfolio of Level 3 to tw telecom customers.
It brings tw telecoms rich deep and extensive metro network and product portfolio to Level 3 customers.
Lastly it brings together two experienced sets of employees focused on driving growth supporting our sales team and providing an excellent customer experience.
As usual Sunit will provide an overview of the third quarter results.
Then I will provide additional color on the integration planning we have done to-date and the perspective on our outlook for the rest of the year.
After that we will open it up for your questions.
With that I will turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
I will start off by noting that since the tw telecom transaction closed just a few days ago and after the end of the third quarter my comments today mostly pertain to Level 3.
I will touch on the highlights of tw telecoms results a bit later.
I would like to start with some of the highlights for the quarter which can be found on Slide 3 of our presentation.
Core Network Services revenue for the third quarter of 2014 increased by 5.8%.
Enterprise Core Network Services revenue grew 9.1%.
Adjusted EBITDA was $471 million.
And year-to-date we have generated $157 million in free cash flow.
Additionally as of this morning the company is now part of the S&amp;P 500 Index.
Turning to revenue on Slide 4 CNS revenue grew 5.8% to $1.482 billion.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 9.1% primarily driven by continued solid performance from wavelengths and IP and data products.
Also CNS revenue decreased 0.3% as we have previously indicated we generally expect wholesale CNS to be flat to slightly down year-over-year.
On a regional basis North America continued to show strong growth as CNS revenues grew 7.7% and enterprise CNS revenue grew 12%.
In EMEA CNS revenue declined 4.8% and enterprise CNS revenue declined 1.2%.
The performance this quarter was impacted by a few expected disconnects in both the wholesale and enterprise channels.
Excluding UK government revenue enterprise CNS revenue grew 3.7%.
We expect the EMEA region will continue to stabilize over the coming quarters.
Latin America CNS revenue grew 8.6% and enterprise CNS revenue grew 8.3%.
The LatAm region has particularly strong growth this quarter in wholesale due to a few large deals that were installed during the quarter.
As we have noted before wholesale can be lumpy with large installs or large disconnects in any given quarter.
Across the business we continue to expect wholesale to be flat to slightly down.
Wholesale Voice Services and Other or WVS revenue declined to $147 million in the third quarter 2014 compared to $172 million in the third quarter of 2013.
As we have indicated we expect double-digit declines in WVS revenue for the full year 2014 compared to 2013 as we continue to manage the business for margin contribution.
Turning to revenue results by product group on an as reported basis we saw continued strength in our IP and data services group which grew 10%.
CDN revenue grew 12%.
Transport and fiber grew 5.8%.
Within transport and fiber dark fiber grew 11% and represents 6% of CNS revenue.
Co-location and data center services grew 2.1% and voice services were flat.
Regarding pricing we have not seen any changes in the pricing environment across our products or regions.
We remain disciplined on pricing for IP transit services as we continue to shift our revenue mix there more towards enterprise.
At the bottom of Slide 4 for the third quarter 2014 CNS revenue churn was approximately 1.4% in line with the churn rate from the year ago quarter.
Overall churn was negatively impacted by higher churn in EMEA during the quarter.
On Slide 5 in the third quarter 2014 network access margin previously reported as gross margin expanded to 62.7% compared to 61.2% in the third quarter 2013.
The improvement in network access margin continues to be driven by higher CNS revenue growth and WVS revenue declines as well as continued network access cost optimization initiatives.
As I shift the discussion to network-related expenses and SG&amp;A Id like to point out that non-cash compensation expenses and $30 million of severance charges incurred in the third quarter of 2013 are excluded from the discussion on network-related expenses and SG&amp;A that follows.
Network-related expenses were $304 million for the third quarter 2014 compared to $305 million for the third quarter of 2013.
SG&amp;A for the third quarter was $247 million.
This included $7 million in tw telecom transaction and integrated related expenses as well as a benefit of approximately $10 million for adjustments to our accrued liabilities for tax and legal matters.
This compares to $252 million for the third quarter 2013.
On Slide 6 third quarter 2014 adjusted EBITDA was $471 million.
This compares to adjusted EBITDA on a pro forma basis of $404 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA margin improved to 28.9% compared to 25.7% on a pro forma basis for the third quarter 2013.
Turning to Slide 7 capital expenditures were $204 million in the third quarter 2014 compared to $194 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Year-to-date capital expenditures as a percent of total revenue were 12.5%.
The company generated  I am on Slide 7 now sorry.
The company generated free cash flow of $117 million in the quarter.
Year-to-date we have generated $157 million in free cash flow.
We continue to expect free cash flow of $250 million to $300 million for the full year 2014.
As a reminder our free cash flow in the fourth quarter 2013 of $197 million was particularly strong as a result of higher collections at the end of last year.
I will now skip over to Slide 9 and take a moment to provide information on tw telecoms results which are presented on a year-over-year basis using historical tw telecom definitions for all metrics.
tw telecom had a good quarter with total revenue growth of 8% and enterprise revenue growth of 8.4% both on a year-over-year basis driven primarily by data and Internet services.
And EBITDA was $143 million for the third quarter of 2014 an increase of 2.9% from the same period last year.
tw telecom continued making progress on their previously announced strategic market expansion initiatives.
As of September 30 the company had activated all five of its new markets and 15 of its 28 market expansions.
From a shares outstanding perspective for the combined company we ended the quarter with approximately 238 million shares.
We issued approximately 97 million shares for the tw telecom transaction bringing the total shares outstanding to 335 million.
On a fully diluted basis our shares outstanding are approximately 357 million.
Turning to the business outlook I would like to briefly touch on adjusted EBITDA.
As you can see on Slide 10 for the full year 2014 from a starting point of $1.565 billion we expect EBITDA growth of 14% to 18%.
Looking at our year-to-date performance we are running a little ahead and we feel good about the rest of the year.
Since our outlook is typically focused on the year rather than the forward quarter we did not feel that the magnitude of outperformance is large enough to change our current outlook.
As such on a standalone basis and excluding the effects of the tw telecom acquisition we are reiterating our previous outlook for the full year 2014.
All measures are detailed on this slide.
Looking at guidance for the combined company consistent with our usual practice we will provide the 2015 outlook on our fourth quarter earnings call.
We are also evaluating both tw telecom and Level 3 disclosures and will provide the details on how we will report results for 2015 on the fourth quarter earnings call.
At a minimum we plan to continue reporting enterprise and wholesale revenues by region as we have been for the past several years.
Turning to Slide 11 when we announced the tw telecom acquisitions we noted that we expect a $240 million of annualized synergies with $200 million of adjusted EBITDA savings and $40 million of capital expense savings.
Over the last few months we have been actively planning for the integration of tw telecom and we remain confident we will achieve those targets.
Additionally we continue to feel good about achieving 70% of the annualized adjusted EBITDA savings within 18 months of closing.
In summary we are well positioned but have a lot of hard work and execution ahead of us.
With that I will turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
Since the numbers speak for themselves I dont really have much to add to Sunits comments.
I continue to be pleased with our performance each quarter and I am confident that we will achieve our full year 2014 financial outlook.
I am also pleased that we continue to increase our market share with enterprise customers and are clearly positioned to become the premier global communications provider of choice for enterprises around the world.
As I mentioned on the last quarters call I am largely focused on three areas that are key to the continued growth of Level 3.
The first successfully integrate Level 3 and tw telecom.
The second sharpen our focus on EMEA and enable that region to live up to its full potential.
And third continue to position Level 3 for future growth.
Today I would like to focus my comments on the first of those three priorities integrating tw telecom and Level 3.
After months of planning our entire team is excited that the transaction is closed and we can now begin executing the plan.
What we found is strong alignment between our business models.
Both companies have focused on solving the ever-changing network challenges enterprise customers face in developing innovative products that meet those evolving challenges.
Both companies have excellent capabilities and outstanding employees focused on providing a differentiated customer experience.
And both companies value the strength gained from a simple operating environment and systems that empower employees to do their job effectively and meet the needs of our customers.
Integrating these two great organizations into a single company will certainly require hard work and will take some time.
However we have not found any big surprises and the integration planning has gone well.
Learning from the acquisitions we have done previously we have established detailed timelines with milestones along the way to track our progress.
We feel confident about our synergy targets and the timeline to obtain them.
Over time we expect this combination will be transformational from an operational perspective as well.
By integrating the best of each companys products systems and processes we will be able to better serve our customers while delivering our services over an enhanced local to global infrastructure.
From a customer perspective we have been pleased.
Although we have only had a couple of days where we could share customer specific data we found that less than 5% of the combined companies customers overlap.
Since these customers are primarily wholesale or very large enterprise customers the revenue overlap is greater than 5% but less than we saw with Global Crossing.
On our second quarter call I mentioned we selected the executive team that will lead the combined company.
Since then we have defined several additional layers of the organization and have named those leaders as well.
We are well on our way to defining the full organizational structure for Level 3.
Our approach has been to make decisions quickly and provide clarity to the organization.
We will continue this approach as we move forward in the execution phase.
At this point we are several months ahead of where we were with the Global Crossing acquisition.
Before we open the call for questions let me say that I am pleased with Level 3s progress year-to-date.
And I'm confident that we will meet the standalone Level 3 targets that we set at the beginning of the year excluding the effects of the tw telecom acquisition.
There is a lot of work ahead of us but we are  we will be highly disciplined and focused on a successful integration.
With that we will open it up for your questions.
Operator would you explain the process.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the color.
Jeff you talked about one of your priorities being to sharpen the focus on EMEA you also cited some disconnects in EMEA there has been a lot of talk about weakness in the European economy can you just dive a little bit deeper into whats going there how much of this is sort of things like UK government that you just got to work through versus other things where you have got to make more substantive changes or macro headwinds that you are facing? Thanks.
Sure.
Let me break the question into two pieces.
One about how we are going to sharpen our focus and then I will let Sunit answer  as you know Sunit has been heavily involved in our EMEA business over the last year.
I will let him answer some of the specifics around current performance.
One of the things we have done is we moved Andrew Crouch to EMEA.
Andrew is one of the top executives in our company.
He has done a great job in North America He has provided focus and expertise and experience in driving our enterprise success that we have seen in North America over the past few years.
And we have moved him to EMEA to help do the same thing there.
We have a strategy of how are we  we are going to grow in EMEA through enterprise customers but also with our wholesale business.
And Andrew is working with that team there to ensure that we implement that strategy quickly and effectively and its a pan-European strategy its not just a UK only strategy.
It includes what are we doing in Continental European in Germany in France in Benelux in the Nordics and across the European continent.
Yes.
So in terms of specifics and Andrew just took over this last month in EMEA so he is starting his duty there.
With respect to the quarter we had a couple of customers one customer that we had a disconnect or a negative rebate in revenue had to do with extending our long-haul network arrangement in the UK for several decades.
So it was actually a positive transaction for us to secure our long-haul network in the UK.
We view that as a good outcome.
That change was supposed to happen early and it happened in second quarter but view that as good.
The second one was the data center customer an enterprise data center customer but one of the West Coast companies moving to its own facility.
So while the disconnect was negative we certainly had expected it for quite some time.
It does free up more data center capacity for us in London to sell.
So I think those were the two big ones.
On the UK government the UK government revenue actually has been relatively stable the first half of this year.
We expect a little weakness over the next year.
But generally as we stand back I think the keys are we have sustained revenue declines on the wholesale side that we see that trend now stabilizing.
I think this will mark one of the worst quarters from that perspective.
We have improved our reputation and standing with the UK government quite a few contracts there is inertia there but that part is going well.
A little bit of weakness there over the next year but thats about it.
On the enterprise side as Jeff pointed the key focus there is continuing to energize our enterprise business there.
And I think with Andrew going there on a full-time basis we certainly think that will yield quite a bit of benefit and we will see that over the next year.
From a bottom line EBITDA perspective the EBITDA performance of EMEA is held relatively steady in terms of dollars of EBITDA.
So in spite of the revenue declines we have been taking out enough cost from duplicate facilities and other non-headcount expenses that EBITDA has held relatively steady in spite of the revenue declines.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Del Deo with MoffettNathanson.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
You explicitly called out dark fibers contribution to revenue and its growth rate for the first time.
Can you talk a bit about what you are seeing in that market? How does that 11% growth rate compare with the past who is buying dark fiber and what are they doing with it? Is it additive to revenue or is it people moving over from web services? So I will let  I will just answer the specifics on the revenues.
I will let Jeff talk a little bit about how we see dark fiber in the scheme of all our products but with respect to the question dark fiber has been a growth business for us for quite a number of years.
It is not necessarily supplanting lit.
Typically when we enter into any dark fiber arrangements with customers it strengthens our relationship to become more of a strategic supply to them and it has been growing sort of in the high single-digit to low double-digit in terms of range over the last couple of years or so.
So no its a good part of our business.
We are in the business.
So we thought just would note that since it was also one of our well-performing products this quarter so thats why we noted that.
And then I will turn it over to Jeff.
If you think  its one of the strengths of Level 3 if you think about carrying traffic across the world if you are an Internet-only company then every bit of traffic looks like Internet.
If you are a content distribution company then every bit of traffic looks like content distributions.
If you are a dark fiber company then every solution looks like a dark fiber solution.
Level 3 is all of those.
And we have the ability to carry traffic in the form and the medium thats appropriate for that traffic.
So when our customers come to us whether they come to us with traffic that looks like content distribution type traffic we are able to deliver that efficiently over our CDN network.
If its Internet traffic we are able to deliver that efficiently over our Internet network.
If its transport it its dark fiber we are able to solve our customers problems with the appropriate level of service and the appropriate type of services.
We have a variety of products and platforms to deliver customers and we dont then try and shoehorn every bit of traffic into whatever we happen to have available for sale.
So its really the strength of the Level 3 product portfolio.
Yes I mean we are a lifecycle provider.
As customers needs change I think we can respond more flexibly and adapt more quickly than someone that just provides a single product.
Okay thanks for the perspective.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Great thank you.
Two questions if I may.
First off I think one of the bigger concerns investors have as it relates to the tw telecom acquisition is the potential for a slowdown in sales momentum through the actual integration itself.
And I was wondering if you can give us any color on what your expectations are around that particularly maybe what happened with bookings specifically in the third quarter? Maybe what you are seeing already in the fourth quarter between the two combined organizations? And then the second thing just I know you are talking about a milestone-based approach to the integration.
Can you give us a little bit of color about what exactly are some of the things that we should be looking forward to that maybe you are planning on updating us on  in the fourth quarter in terms of things that you have since accomplished so that we could have a better idea of what we should be expecting in terms of the sequencing? So whether its combining the account coverage or a sales person perspective certain systems that you are looking to integrate maybe over the next 6 months certain things you are doing from the network mapping perspective just looking at a little bit more of a benchmark approach to offices going actually as we move forward? Thanks.
Sure.
First of all Colby with respect to the bookings and sales and what do we expect.
I will tell you that one of the guiding principles of our integration planning our integration discussions all of the internal discussions that we have with employees is that we need to maintain our revenue trajectory that we put both companies on.
We said that internally in the third quarter after we announced the transaction.
And as you see from our results both companies did that in the third quarter.
Sales in the third quarter for Level 3 were steady and predictable.
Sales for tw telecom were steady and probably exceeded some of the expectations a little bit.
They are very strong yes.
They are very strong in the third quarter for tw telecom.
And so we hope and are working on all of our plans to make sure that our integration work does not harm our ability to drive revenue growth.
Having said that these are complicated transactions its a complicated business.
We have lots of people involved and lots of systems and capabilities.
So thats what our plan is but its a very complicated thing to execute on and we are very focused on doing that.
If you think about some of the integration and whats the timeline of things to come and what we will be reporting on going forward I will hold some of what we will be reporting on until the fourth quarter and we will update you then on our expectations for reports in 2015.
Clearly we will continue to talk a little bit about synergies and our ability to accomplish those things.
From a timeline perspective the thing that we need to do first is make sure that our go-to market plan is in place meaning our sales team and the sales structure is set.
People know what accounts that they are responsible for.
People know how they are going to be compensated.
Sales people know how they are going to be compensated.
We have the support infrastructure in place to support those sales as they go.
We have the product definitions and the sales support materials in place to make it possible for our brand the newest Level 3 sales people to sell these Level 3 products across the tw telecom customer base and that we have the same on the other side.
Okay.
And then...
And then Colby we will be talking every quarter about the run-rate synergies achieved and integration costs being cut in the quarter or for some period of time.
And then just one real housekeeping question the actual transaction cost itself associated with the deal if you go back to Global Crossing a few years ago I think that that was like around $39 million at the quarter that it was close and that was outside of the integration costs I believe.
Do you have a number for what you would be expecting in building into our models for the fourth quarter specific to the actual closing costs? Well I think the transaction costs for Global Crossing were much higher.
I think they were on the order of couple of $100 million.
With respect to tw telecom when we announced the fourth quarter we will get into specifics since as I said the transaction just closed a couple of days ago but we will talk about that when we announce fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of James Moorman with DA Davidson.
Please proceed.
Yes thanks for taking the questions.
First in terms of Latin America can you just talk a little bit more about whats going on there and in particular Brazil there is  if its still a headwind or if there is anything improving there? And then second question any  in terms of some of the TWTCs products such as bandwidth on demand any timetable for kind of rolling that to your products? Thanks a lot.
Well I will take the first question and Jeff can take the second one.
On the LatAm situation there are two basic big picture things going on.
There is the macroeconomic/political environment that we got to be cognizant of and then there is currency volatility.
Brazil is 40% of our LatAm business and has been well documented.
The economy there has been slowing down.
There were some recent issues with the election and how people felt about that with respect to the currency and the markets.
What I would say is that in spite of all of the macroeconomic headwinds and slowdown our business in LatAm has continued to perform well and we continue to gain market share by a fair margin compared to other peers operating in LatAm.
And I think that the combination of our long-haul facilities metro facilities and data center facilities in LatAm combined with the global footprint we have has really helped us.
So I think in spite of some of the macroeconomic headwinds our Latin America continues to do fine and gain market share and that applies for not just Brazil but for some of the other geographies we operate in in Latin America.
And James within your question there is really two kind of components to the tw telecom products.
And the first is they have excellent products and you are right whether its their bandwidth on demand product or the product constellation associated with cloud networking or their Ethernet capabilities there were some very strong very capable products in their portfolio.
And so we are glad to have them.
The second part of the question though was any timeline on when we are planning to move them to our products.
The benefit and one of the ways that we are thinking about this transaction that the benefit is as of today they are our products.
We have them available for every one of our customers.
Certainly the tw telecom former tw telecom sales reps are more informed about those products and better able to sell them but we will develop that same capability across the Level 3 sales force.
And so as of today we have all of those products in our portfolio.
We will have to rationalize some of them that are overlapping.
We have the Cloud Connect Solutions ecosystem that Level 3 has built.
We have the constellation ecosystem that tw telecom has built.
And what we want to do is take the combination of those and to deliver to the market the premier ecosystem for connecting to cloud computing capabilities of any carrier on the planet.
And so we are doing that we are working on that and its less about integrating them to our products and really about taking both sets of products and building what we are building for the future and for our customers.
And so we are doing that today.
And we will continue to rationalize those products but also enable the sales force to sell the services to both sets of customers.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Smithen with Macquarie Capital.
Please proceed.
I want to talk a little bit about the network synergies opportunity I think we assume that most of the synergies you have talked about on the operating side are on the sort of traditional OpEx but clearly I think there is a longer term opportunity to put more of the Time Warner Telecom traffic on net for you can you talk a little about the opportunities there and sort of whats the strategy for trying to create some network synergies? Sure.
So I think and this is in our presentation on the  on Slide 11 where of the $200 million of synergies we expect 55% of that to come from network expense or network access cost and 45% from OpEx.
So that is clearly a big part of the synergy picture that we outlined at the time of the announcement.
And the way we see those synergies coming out is tw telecom has expenses or long-haul network expenses that they wont need because we can push that on the Level 3 network.
And then both companies can leverage each others on-net footprint to reduce access costs.
They are also grooming and trunking costs within a macro that can be optimized further whether its to  we both connect  we might both be connecting to similar central offices so we can eliminate duplicate facility entrance cost to some of those places.
And then also I think where we might be paying network expense costs going to the same facility both us and tw telecom we could justify some bills to some buildings to reduce network expense.
So its a whole spectrum of things that we will be doing that we have been planning on in the last few months that we will be executing on to achieve the synergies.
So of the $200 million of EBITDA synergies 55% are from reductions in network expense so network access costs.
And how long does it take to realize you imagine that you either have to wait for the lease  the facilities leases or carrier contracts to finish or you have to pay an early termination fee how should we kind of think about the duration before all these network synergies are finally recognized? A fair question thats why we said we expect to hit 70% of the $200 million within 18 months of closing there is a tail after that to get the rest of the synergies.
And to your point we do have to look at the combined buying arrangements we have with various network access suppliers to work that out.
So there is a tail but 70% of that will generally hit within 18 months of closing.
So its going to happen fairly fast.
And the contract terms are not generally the gating factor.
The gating factor is making sure we are doing this in concert with our customers.
There is an impact when we move them from one to another making sure that we sequence the migration so that we are not continually hitting customers over and over as we migrate off-net capacity to on-net capacity but soon its right in the timeframe and its something that we are extraordinarily good at.
We have a lot of experience and a lot of capabilities in this area and therefore confident in our synergy targets that we have talked about.
Is there any other structural reason why Time Warner Telecoms gross margins had been lower than yours significantly or is it just you have a lower cost base on long-haul and transport? I think that their definition is a little different.
They include like people expenses with respect to field operations.
So they have a larger definition.
Our definition for network access costs is simply what we pay to third party network access suppliers.
As we report on a go-forward basis we will adopt the definition that we have.
So I think that if you were to look at their network access costs the way we define it their gross margins will be higher than what you have seen them report in the past.
So its just a definitional thing.
Okay great.
Thats very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Horan with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Thanks guys.
Just two clarifications and one question.
Time Warner I guess that they are not on your long distance network or tw they are not on your long-distance currently is that correct.
And second could you remind us the Global Crossing the percentage of revenue you lost from the customer overlap and maybe some kind of guesstimate on why would be material lower now.
And then third the cross selling of products can this be material how excited is the sales force about some of the new products and can you maybe talk about like if I am a tw sales person what products does Level 3 really have that I can go back to my customer base now and up-sell them that they are excited about? Thanks.
Sure.
So I will take some of those and let Sunit take some as well.
On the tw telecom are they on our backbone or not? They are they are a customer of ours.
That doesnt mean that every bit of their backbone they buy from us but they are a customer of ours and so we or were historically a customer of ours.
So some portion of that is already on the Level 3 backbone.
They buy services.
They bought services from others as well and we will move those to the Level 3 backbone as quickly as possible as part of the question that Kevin was asking about and timing of our off-net expenses.
I am not going to try and estimate the revenue loss that we saw from combined customers in Global Crossing.
I will tell you that there is some difference though between tw telecom and Global Crossing if we look backward at Global Crossing one of the biggest areas that we lost revenue was one there was a wholesale customer that bought internet services from us and also bought internet services from Global.
The reason they did that was to get diversity in the internet backbone.
We dont see very many of those customers in the tw telecom customer set.
And so the number one drivers of diversity requirements that existed with Global Crossing customers isnt as strong with tw telecom customers as it was with Global.
And then the absolute dollars of overlap is smaller as well.
So those are two reasons that we think that the number will be less than  and less impactful than we saw with Global Crossing.
With the respect to cross-selling of products and are the two sales teams excited? The answer is yes at least from every salesperson that I have spoken with.
I havent spoken with all of them yet but from every salesperson that I have spoken with the answer is yes.
The tw telecom salespeople are excited about being able to win more effectively in long-haul and certainly in international.
If there was an international component previously they rarely bid.
If there was a significant long-haul component previously they rarely won.
So they think they are very excited about just the network footprint to begin with but also the product overlaps the IP VPN capabilities in the Level 3 product portfolio.
The same is true going the other direction.
And by the way Sunit already talked on this but both companies have big metro networks and a lot of on net buildings and so it now positions our combined sales team to sell over a larger footprint.
And we know the more on net we are the more successful we are in delivering the service to customers the more successful we are in winning the business and the higher profitability that it is for us as a company.
So if you look at the 30 000 buildings using rough numbers 30 000 buildings on net in the U.S.
between the historical Level 3 and historical tw telecom we have talked about this on the announcement of the deal that there was less than 10% overlap in those buildings.
That gives us a great footprint to cross-sell all of our services to new customers in those buildings or existing customers in those buildings.
And so both sales teams are excited and both sales teams think that they have an opportunity to up-sell to their existing customers.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just two if I could and am not sure if you mentioned this earlier but if you could just give us an indication of how to think about the exchange rate changes on revenue going into the fourth quarter and going into next year if you just look at where current rates are and just keep them at that level? And then just going back to the business just wondering if you could describe a little more in terms of the enterprise revenue growth that you are seeing how much of that is coming from new customers versus existing customers and are you seeing the incumbent providers get more aggressive at trying to keep that business away from you? Thanks.
Well I will take the exchange rate question.
So I think on a combined company basis roughly 86% of the revenue mix is U.S.
dollars and of the remaining roughly about 5% is pound sterling 4% is euros 3% is the Brazilian real and 2% are other currencies.
And I think that from a cash flow perspective really the only cash flows we have because our regional headquarters for EMEA is in the UK.
From a cash flow perspective its just euros and Brazilian reals but again in the scheme of things with tw telecom the FX exposure declines even some.
Even without tw telecom 82% of our revenue base was U.S.
dollar denominated.
So we have limited exposure.
Having said that I think that our team in Latin America is very good at managing currency situations in terms of how we charge for our services and how they manage the costs against that.
So I think thats a quick summary on the exchange rates.
We tend to bring our cash flows back into the U.S.
as quick as we can after they are generated.
So with respect to the second question Mike the mix of enterprise revenue that comes from existing customers versus new customers is always very heavily skewed to existing customers.
We have talked about this before but we have a strategy and customers buy from us.
They will buy a little bit of products and services from us and then we will go in after we have won that business after we have delivered a great experience for them we go in and we get more and more of their business.
So the vast majority of our sales come from existing customers.
We are continually adding new logos because thats how we filled the pipeline for what we are going to sell next quarter and the quarter after that is by bringing those customers online.
But they oftentimes come in with smaller deals to begin with and then we grow with them as we prove ourselves.
We will add one of their facilities and then we will add another and then we will get their whole IP VPN solution.
Sometimes we get all the business at once but generally we have that wedge growth strategy sell something to them and then grow with them over time.
So a lot of our revenue comes from existing customers.
Are the incumbents being more aggressive? Level 3 focuses on driving profitable revenue growth and we have been very successful over the last few years of doing that continually with our customers and in particular our enterprise customers but we still have mid single-digit market share.
And so there is enormous opportunity for us to continue to grow in the market.
And I dont mean its irrespective of what our competitors do but I have long said that our ability to win in the market is based on our ability to execute.
If we provide great products over a great platform to an excellent customer experience we will continue to drive the growth that we have seen and thats what were focused on is how do we continually improve our products and our performance and our experience that we provide to customers.
And that will be  thats what differentiates us in the market.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Great thank you.
Can you comment on the capitalization policies between Level 3 and tw telecom? How should we think about the combined company from a capital intensity perspective and sort of how the direction of the combined  that combined capital intensity and EBITDA margins are going to be as you begin to operate together? Sure.
So I mean Level 3 as you know we have guided this year of 12% to 13% of revenues in our tw telecom year-to-date been about 24% not too far from where they have been at that certainly tw telecom has a lot more buildings every year.
We add in North America about 500 buildings a year.
They had about 2 000.
And I think that when you look at our CapEx on a weighted basis and then also we have synergies we said CapEx synergies of $40 million.
So we will get the benefit of that.
On the other hand at least for 2015 we will have some level of integration cost too on the CapEx side.
But essentially if you look at it on a dollar weighted basis we do expect as Jeff was pointing out that by having a much bigger metro footprint within any metro it should help us lower the distance we have to get to any new customer compared to where we are on a standalone basis.
So we think we will get more benefit there on the CapEx side over time while at the same time maintaining the level of investment that both companies have in terms of our building adds.
And our policies are no different other than trying to make sure we are getting the kind of  as Jeff said profitable growth which means we are getting good returns in the CapEx we are putting to work and we are getting the operating leverage that Level 3 has enjoyed.
So we will focus on that but our goal is to continue at a level of investment that both companies have historically and keep driving enterprise revenue growth profitable revenue growth.
Was there  but was there anything inherent in their capitalization policies that resulted in a different trade-off between operating expense and capital costs that are different than the way you operate the business that might change the incoming margin profile or help that capital intensity come down just from a capitalization policy perspective? Well typically and it is more to do with the kind of customer demographic that both of us were targeting.
Typically we get more revenue throughput per building than what tw telecom was saying but as I was saying I think that  so there wasnt any different in the capitalization policy per se.
I just think that with the combined company having a much bigger product portfolio to sell a bigger a wider customer base and the fact that between both of us with a larger macro footprint in any given city we should be able to simultaneously get to a customer with a little lower CapEx spend than both companies could have individually just with the bigger network in the city and hopefully drive more revenue with that investment too over time.
So I dont think there was anything different deferring in the capitalization policy.
It was more to do with the type of customers targeted but again over the next few years we should be able to leverage each others strengths to improve their returns on investments.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Scott Goldman with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Couple of questions.
One maybe we can just talk a little bit about growth as we head into fourth quarter.
Typically you guys see strengthening sequential growth as you head into the back half of the year obviously you talked about some of the impacts on EMEA and LatAm for 3Q running the call but just wondering from a seasonality perspective how you are thinking about 4Q growth as we enter that quarter? And then secondly just get your thoughts on the recent regulatory balloon that was floated out by the FCC with regards to net neutrality and perhaps imposing more commentary regulation on sort of the backbone or middle mile as opposed to the region side? Thanks.
Sure.
I will take the first question.
Yes I mean you are right we typically do see some seasonal strength in the fourth quarter some of that driven by our Vyvx business with the NFL games.
And so I dont think we see this quarter as being any different with respect to the fourth quarter on the Level 3 side.
And as Jeff pointed out tw telecom had good sales strong sales or bookings in the third quarter so nothing unusual in the fourth quarter compared to what we have seen in prior years.
With respect to the regulatory environment its still little early for us to make specific comments.
There is going to have to be more details on what people are proposing and we will do that when we get that information.
But we have always been a strong supporter of an open Internet and we are glad to see that regulatory bodies and policymakers are starting to realize that there are anti-competitive practices that go on that can constrain the Internet and its bad for consumers to constrain interconnection points or to try and collect arbitrary fees.
Those things we think are bad for an open Internet or bad for American consumers and we will continue to work with the policymakers to have our voices known.
And we will react when the specifics of any proposal come out.
Sunit if I could just...
Thank you all.
Sure.
Yes I was just wondering if I could just follow up whether in terms of EMEA as we head into the fourth quarter whether some of the disconnects you highlighted earlier.
Have we seen the worst of that or will some of that sort of flow through into 4Q results as well? No I think we have seen the worst of that.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you all for the questions.
I would like to leave you with a few thoughts.
Our ability to deliver comprehensive customer solutions and grow our enterprise revenue is central to our strategy and we believe we are on the right path.
We remain confident that the combination of tw telecom will strengthen our position in the market and enhance our ability to gain market share.
We are pleased with the progress our integration planning teams have made.
And across all of our initiatives we remain focused on driving profitable growth and increasing free cash flow per share.
I look forward to talking to you about our fourth quarter and full year results in February.
And as always we appreciate your interest in Level 3.
Operator that concludes the call.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday February 4 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Valerie Finberg.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Id like to draw your attention to the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at investors.level3.com.
On this site are the presentation materials that accompany this call the earnings press release and supplemental financial information.
As the acquisition of tw telecom closed on October 31 2014 consolidated financial statements for the fourth quarter 2014 include a full quarter of Level 3 results and two months of tw telecom results.
Information provided for both Level 3 and tw telecom on a standalone basis exclude acquisition related expenses intercompany eliminations and acquisition accounting adjustments.
Standalone tw telecom results are based on tw telecoms definitions for all metrics provided.
Growth rates disclosed in our presentation and remarks are on a year-over-year basis.
Revenue comparisons to prior periods are provided on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement that begins on Page 2 of our 4Q 2014 earnings presentation.
The presentation and remarks contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results can be found in Level 3s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will also be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation.
With that Ill turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As you can see on Slide 3 2014 was a solid year for Level 3.
Im pleased with our execution throughout the year and the strong finish from both teams: standalone Level 3 and tw telecom.
At the beginning of 2014 we highlighted our focus on profitable revenue growth improving adjusted EBITDA and generating free cash flow.
We made significant progress with respect to those financial metrics.
Im also very pleased with completion of the tw telecom acquisition late last fall.
Since the close of the acquisition at the end of October weve made steady progress against our integration plans.
The acquisition is an important step in solidifying our place in the industry as we tied together one of the worlds most sophisticated and extensive international networks with one of our nations premier domestic networks.
We are very focused on profitably integrating the organization products networks and support systems and believe these efforts will position us well for 2016 and beyond.
Integrating quickly and according to our plans is our highest operational priority for the year and we will not lose focus on those efforts.
For our usual process Sunit will provide an overview of our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results then I will provide additional detail on the integration process and what were targeting for 2015.
After that we will open the call up for your questions.
With that Ill turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
2014 was the pivotal year for Level 3 setting us up on the path to sustainable and growing free cash flow.
We performed well compared to our full year outlook for revenue adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow growth.
Our focus right now is integrating tw telecom.
In addition we are investing for profitable growth in 2015 and beyond.
Before I dive into the details Id like to start on Slide 4 and highlight Level 3s performance on a standalone basis for the year.
Our Core Network Services revenue for the full year 2014 grew 6.1% year-over-year on a constant currency basis compared to 2.9% growth for the full year 2013.
Our adjusted EBITDA grew 19% for the full year 2014 compared to our outlook of 14% to 18% growth.
We generated free cash flow of $325 million for the full year 2014 compared to our full year outlook of $250 million to $300 million.
Including all acquisition related expenses; our free cash flow was $261 million for the full year.
Additionally we continue to lower our net debt to adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio which is now at 4.4 times on a pro forma basis to include tw telecom and excluding acquisition related expenses.
Turning to Slide 5 on a constant currency basis CNS revenue grew 5.1% to $1.497 billion in the fourth quarter.
On an as reported basis CNS revenue grew 3.7% due to the strength in the dollar.
On a regional basis North America continue to show good growth as CNS revenue grew 6.3% and enterprise CNS revenue grew 11%.
In EMEA for the fourth quarter CNS revenue grows 0.5% on a constant currency basis and declined 2.2% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 9% on a constant currency basis or 6.7% on a reported basis.
In 2015 as we remain focused on profitability and as contracts come to an end with the UK government we expect steeper declines in UK government revenue.
As of the fourth quarter 2014 revenue for the UK government represented approximately 13% of EMEA CNS revenue.
For reference you can find fourth quarter and full year revenue for the UK government footnoted in the revenue table on Page 2 of our press release.
We plan to disclose UK government revenue for every quarter in 2015.
In Latin America for the fourth quarter CNS revenue grew 4.1% on a constant currency basis and declined 2.1% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise revenue grew 3.2% on a constant currency basis and declined 2.6% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise growth in the region was a bit weaker this quarter compared to early in the year because of a few large disconnects in data center services during the quarter.
For the fourth quarter wholesale CNS revenue grew 7.6% on a constant currency basis or 2.2% on an as reported basis.
Wholesale Voice Services and Other or WVS revenue declined to $137 million in the fourth quarter 2014.
For the full year 2014 WVS revenue declined 19% to $582 million.
Turning to Slide 6 for the fourth quarter 2014 CNS revenue churn was approximately 1.4%.
Moving ahead to Slide 8 fourth quarter 2014 adjusted EBITDA was $470 million.
This compares to adjusted EBITDA of $448 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 which included a $10 million Latin America tax benefit.
For the full year 2014 adjusted EBITDA grew 19% to $1.869 billion from $1.565 billion in 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA margin improved to 28.8% in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to 28% for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Over the course of the full year 2014 we made great progress in expanding adjusted EBITDA margins from 24.8% in 2013 to 28.8% for the full year 2014.
The improvement in full year margin was driven by growth in both high margin CNS revenue and adjusted EBITDA and the benefit of the cost reduction actions taken in the third quarter of 2013.
On Slide 9 in 2014 capital expenditures were $847 million representing 13% of total revenue.
This was in line with our full-year expectation of 12% to 13% of total revenue and included some integration CapEx.
As of December 31 2014 the company had cash and cash equivalents of $580 million.
Focusing on tw telecom results on a standalone basis as you can see on Slide 10 and Slide 11 tw telecom delivered another quarter of solid growth.
Sequential improvement in EBITDA was primarily driven by synergies including executive management headcount reductions reduced cost from moving tw telecom traffic onto the Level 3 network and generally in general salary and benefit savings as all new hires being added to the Level 3 payroll.
I would like to note that going forward we will no longer be providing separate disclosure for tw telecom results.
Moving to Slide 12 on a pro forma combined basis total revenue was $2.052 billion for the fourth quarter 2014 and $8.123 billion for the full year 2014.
CNS revenue was $1.915 billion in the fourth quarter 2014 growing 5.8% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 on a constant currency basis.
On an as reported basis in the fourth quarter CNS revenue grew 4.8%.
Wholesale voice and other was $137 million for the fourth quarter with a very small contribution through tw telecom and represents 7% of total revenue.
We expect continued double digit rates of decline in WVS revenue in 2015.
On a geographic basis for the fourth quarter about 79% of our CNS revenue is from North America 11% from EMEA and 10% from Latin America.
As a combined company we have approximately 52 000 customers of which 94% are in the enterprise segment and the remaining 6% are in the wholesale segment.
From a revenue perspective enterprise is 71% of our CNS revenue and wholesale is 29%.
Turning to revenue results by product group on Slide 13; on a pro forma combined basis for the fourth quarter and all on an as reported basis we saw continued strength in our IP and data services group which grew 8.9% and represented 46% of CNS revenue.
Within that group CDN revenues grew 7.6% and represent about 2% of CNS revenue.
Transport and fiber grew 4.5% and represent 30% of CNS revenue.
Within transport and fiber dark fiber grew 1.7% and represents about 5% of CNS revenue.
Dark fiber growth was slower this quarter compared to last quarter because of auto pay and back bills collected in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Normalizing for those back bills dark fiber grew 6.4% and transport and fiber grew 5.2%.
Voice Services was flat year-over-year representing 16% of CNS revenue.
And colocation and data services which makeup 8% of CNS revenue declined 5.5% driven by some large customer disconnects in LatAm and EMEA along with negative currency effects.
Regarding pricing as weve said for several quarters we see little change in the pricing environment.
We remain disciplined on pricing for Internet services as we manage for profitability and transition those services from wholesale to enterprise customers.
Turning to Slide 14 adjusted EBITDA including acquisition-related expenses was $469 million for the fourth quarter 2014 and $2.271 billion for the full year 2014.
Excluding acquisition related expenses adjusted EBITDA was $625 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 and $2.443 billion for the full year 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA margin excluding acquisition related expenses was 30.5% for the fourth quarter of 2014 and 30.1% for the full year 2014.
Turning to Slide 15 for the fourth quarter of 2014 the combined-company spent $100 million on transaction related expenses and $56 million on integration related expenses.
For the full year the company spent $112 million on transaction-related expenses and $60 million on integration-related expenses.
For 2015 we expect to spend roughly $50 million on EBITDA effecting integration expenses with some remaining cost in 2016.
From a CapEx perspective we expect about $70 million of integration CapEx this year in 2015 as we invest for common network systems and synergies.
During the fourth quarter 2014 we achieved approximately $38 million of our targeted $200 million of run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies with network access cost synergies of $1 million and operating expense synergies of $37 million.
Going forward Ill provide an update on both EBITDA effecting integration expenses and annualized run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies each quarter.
Turning to Slide 16 as noted in our earnings release we completed several capital markets transactions over the past few months and will continue to be opportunistic in managing our balance sheet.
Related to those transactions we expect to incur $14 million charge for the extinguishment of debt in the second quarter of this year.
On a combined-company basis we exited the year with our net debt to adjusted EBITDA or 4.4 times on a pro forma basis and excluding acquisition related expenses.
This compares to 4.8 times at the end of 2013 on a standalone basis for Level 3.
We remain focused on getting to the low end of our target leverage range of three to five times driven by growth and adjusted EBITDA.
We ended the quarter with approximately 341 million shares outstanding.
On a fully diluted basis including the remaining 12 million shares associated with the converts that mature in March our shares outstanding are approximately 358 million.
The Companys U.S.
net operating loss carry forward or NOL balance was approximately $10.3 billion as of the end of 2014.
Turning to Slide 17 Id like to now focus on our business outlook which is outlined in this slide and in this mornings press release.
While we are not providing overall CNS revenue guidance I did want to cover what we expect from a regional perspective on a constant currency basis.
Our LatAm CNS revenues grew 8.5% in 2014 compared to full year 2013.
We expect comparable performance in 2015.
EMEA declined 2.2% in 2014.
We expect a smaller percentage decline in 2015 driven by better performance in enterprise and wholesale offset by a more rapid decline in UK Government revenue.
For reference UK Government revenue declined 17% in 2014.
In North America our CNS revenue growth will be a little softer than the 6.8% growth we saw for the pro forma combined-company performance in the fourth quarter.
This is because we had the benefit of incremental growth in 2014 including turning up the Starbucks contract revenue and some large federal contracts that we dont expect this year.
With our focus on profitable revenue growth and synergy savings we expect strong growth in adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow in 2015.
Specifically from the adjusted EBITDA starting point of $2.271 billion from 2014 we expect to grow adjusted EBITDA 12% to 16% for the full year 2015.
In addition we expect to generate free cash flow of $550 million to $600 million for the full year 2015.
In 2014 Level 3 spent 13% of revenue and CapEx and tw telecom spent approximately 25%.
On a blended basis that is approximately 15.5%.
In 2015 we expect to spend about 15% of total revenue on CapEx which includes $40 million in capital expenditure synergies and integration related CapEx of about $70 million.
For the first quarter 2015 we expect CNS revenue to be up slightly on an as reported basis relative to the pro forma combined company fourth quarter 2014 figure of $1.915 billion.
Due to continued underlying growth in CNS revenue offsetting the typical soft sequential comparison from four to first quarter revenue.
We expect first quarter 2015 adjusted EBITDA to be up slightly compared to the fourth quarter 2014 pro forma adjusted EBITDA of $625 million.
Free cash flow in the first quarter will be slightly negative due to the payment of annual bonuses in cash for the combined company and higher net cash interest expense of $169 million in the first quarter.
As a reminder last year and in previous years for Level 3 standalone we only paid 40% of annual bonuses in cash and the remainder in shares of common stock.
In summary 2014 was a good year for the company.
In 2015 in addition to free cash flow growth we are focused on integration synergies and driving profitable revenue growth.
With that Ill turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
As I noted earlier 2014 was a good year for Level 3.
As we look to 2015 were confident in our ability to meet the revenue adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow outlook that Sunit described.
To achieve our adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow outlook and continued driving profitable revenue growth Id like to emphasize three key priorities.
First and foremost is the successful integration of Level 3 and tw telecom.
Second is enabling EMEA to live up to its full potential and support the growth we believe we can achieve in that region.
Third is to position Level 3 for growth well into the future.
While we have been and well continue to be an acquisitive company right now our number one priority is integrating tw telecom.
There are many definitions we could apply to win integration is complete but by my standard its a multiyear process and will not be completed in 2015.
In broad terms my definition that completely integrated includes a single set of products for our customers around the globe a unified sales team capable of selling those products effectively in our target market and our target customer verticals a network optimized to drive high margin products to high margin locations and integrated operational support platform that enables our employees to deliver the best customer experience in the industry and a global workforce acting seamlessly across international borders and diverse languages to meet the global needs of all of our customers.
We began initiatives across each of these areas.
As an example this week we completed the go-forward sales structure for the North America sales team combining the best general managers from both companies and aligning these GMs and their teams around the opportunities our global capabilities create.
Effective this month all of our sales people across the combined-company have their go-forward assigned customer accounts.
In addition as announced last year we formalized our Global Account Management structure this organization reporting to Andrew Crouch is charged with providing a seamless customer experience to our largest multi-national customers by services across the globe.
From a product network and systems planning perspective the key to our approach is the word one one product set one network one set of support systems.
With several past acquisitions we made the decision to keep multiple instances of certain systems products and even in some cases duplicate networks.
While this approach has several benefits it created ongoing complexity in the sales service delivery and service assurance environment.
Even the limited number of acquisitions by tw telecom their systems environment was much more straightforward compared to Level 3s especially for the quote to service delivery process.
We will be scaling those capabilities and working to move the company to single platform over time.
In terms of the network weve interconnected the tw telecom in Level 3 networks and are now beginning efforts to fully integrate them as they single unified network.
Were also confident in our ability to deliver the synergy savings weve discussed in previous calls.
Turning to EMEA youve heard me say we need to do more to live up to our full potential in that region.
I believe we now have the right leader Andrew Crouch to implement the changes needed and provide the leadership to improve our performance.
As many of you know Andrew was a principle driver of our success in North America.
Since taking the helm in November in EMEA Andrew has moved quickly to make leadership changes and is focusing the team on improving sales delivering profitable growth and returning the region to the success weve had in the past.
Before I move on to what were doing and where were investing position the company for the future I wanted to take a moment to discuss performance and expectations in Latin America.
Weve had a long history of success and have confidence in the highly capable LatAm team led by Hector Alonso.
For several years in a row weve seen LatAm deliver double-digit revenue growth.
In 2014 and specifically the fourth quarter growth was not as strong in part due to the economic environment in the region.
However the underlying factors that drive growth in our business have not changed in Latin America.
Bandwidth demands continue to grow in an extraordinary rate the need to this capacity and connectivity is global in nature and not solely within the region.
And as a result our subsea systems give us a unique product set not easily matched by our competitors.
And we have an outstanding team focused on the opportunities within the region and within each country we serve.
Turning to future growth.
We believe all of the work were doing around the integration is also critical for positioning the company to capitalize on future growth opportunities.
One set of services over a combined network with a standard operating environment globally allows us to meet the ever changing needs of our customers.
Whether interconnecting the customers branch locations throughout the world over an ethernet based IP VPN or connecting a corporate date center to cloud service providers via Level 3s Cloud Connect Solutions or using Level 3s advanced DDoS Mitigation services to protect the company from internet attacks.
Level 3 is well positioned to meet the complex networking needs of our customers.
We remain focused on meeting the wire line communication needs of our enterprise customers.
And Im confident that as we execute against our integration plans this year well continue to position the company to take market share and further transforming the business on an ongoing basis.
With that we will open it up for your questions.
Operator would you explain the process? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Scott Goldman with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I guess Sunit following-up on your commentary on the revenue side of the equation I guess a couple part question if I could.
On your geographic outlook I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about - a little bit more detail about the European strength that you were seeing on the enterprise side of the equation and I thought youre sort of behind some of the UK government stuff but it seems like thats coming back in.
Also on the LatAm side of the equation maybe you just talk about what you saw on the data center disconnects and where those were going and your comfort around the 2015 guide? And then just for a bit of housekeeping if you could just share with us what your - what impact of FX could be on reported revenue and more importantly on EBITDA for 2015? Thanks.
So I will start first with the question on EMEA I think that prior to last year; our enterprise revenue growth in EMEA excluding UK government had been close to double-digit type growth.
It was a little softer last year and we see that picking up.
We also had a fairly steep decline in the wholesale business in EMEA last year we think that is stabilizing in the sense of we wont see that kind of decline in the wholesale segment.
So therefore we expect that our performance in enterprise and wholesale I think the UK government revenue - we were hoping at this point to win new government contracts in the UK government.
What has actually happened I think is you probably know from last year with some of the cell phone tapping events in Europe where were seeing the business there is going to UK carriers meaning principally VTN and Vodafone.
So last year was a relatively stable year for us with respect to UK government meaning you saw the year-over-year decline but a lot of that happened in 2013 over the course of 2014 UK government revenue are fairly stable.
So what we are now seeing in 2015 and 2016 is those contracts going away and so thats whats hurting us.
So we will see the decline in the UK government revenue accelerate a little in 2015 which is why we are going to provide separate disclosure of that.
But when you put it all together the fact that it is a small percent of the CNS revenue in EMEA and the better performance on wholesale.
And in enterprise we expect EMEA revenues to decline a little on a constant currency basis but not as much as a 2.2% decline we saw last year.
In Latin America I think that the data center business there is lumpier in the sense that we had some big customers there we had some disconnects as I said some in EMEA but the bigger ones in LatAm.
So we saw the impact of that in the quarter.
We certainly feel our data center business and our assets in Latin America premier assets and they should be able to grow that back up again.
And as we look at LatAm in general in spite of the macroeconomic issues that weve talked about other than Venezuela which Ill quickly touch up on we expect comparable constant currency growth in LatAm.
They continue to be a lot of opportunities the one particularly strong segment within that as Jeff mentioned was the sale - the demand for subsea capacity to Latin America which has been a bright spot.
Venezuela just to touch up on that I think that in general most companies are using the SICAD 1 rate which is 12.1 bolivars to the dollar the official rate is about 6 bolivars.
We switch to that SICAD 1 rate some time ago.
Over the course of this year as we expect some more news out of Venezuelan government which would reconcile the SICAD 1 rate which is at 12 bolivars versus the SICAD 2 rate which is at 50 bolivars.
For sometime later in the year we will have to address that as the government moves in that direction.
But away from that I think generally we expect similar growth in LatAm that we saw last year.
Great and then And then to your question on currency and EBITDA look I think the bad news is the dollar strengthened a lot if you have business outside the U.S.
the good news is less than about 20% of our CNS revenues are outside the U.S.
a lot of the strength in the dollar has already happened so weve certainly factored that into our outlook for EBITDA.
So we feel very confident about the EBITDA outlook that we have provided given current exchange rate.
So obviously if the dollar strengthened some more that could impact us in the margin.
But at the EBITDA level we are more or better hedged I would say or have less exposure than on the revenue side.
As weve explained in the past our biggest exposure from an EBITDA perspective is the Brazilian real and the euro not as much as sterling.
We are profitable in UK but what we see is our regional headquarters so we have fair amount of sterling expense in the UK.
And at this point I think weve factored in - we are assuming currency rates that are in effect right now for our outlook so we feel quite comfort about the EBITDA outlook.
Great thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
Please proceed.
Hi great.
Two questions if I may.
The first one you talked about going back to previous acquisitions - in effect we fully integrating them or moving more towards the full integration.
Where would be reflected in the potential for synergy? So youve obviously already outlined synergies that you anticipate from tw telecom specifically and thats within your traditional comp 10% to 20% of OpEx of the company youre acquiring.
How should we think about the additional savings youre going to get from going back to some of these previous acquisitions? And then the second question what if any refi have you assumed in your interest expense guidance? Thanks.
And I guess it ticks that you havent any what might - what I guess could be potentially being considered? Thanks.
Well Ill take the second question first.
So on the refi no we have not assumed any further refinancing.
Obviously they are opportunities for us to do that later in the year.
I think my summary is when and when we do them it depends on interest rates at that time and timing.
I dont see it impacting.
It certainly impacts our run rate interest expense on a go-forward basis might not have as much impact within the year.
So I think there are opportunities for us.
We have about $1.5 billion for callable debt with coupons and the aids.
So thats certainly an opportunity for us later in the year.
They are not callable currently so I think these are more second half of the year type opportunities depending on where interest rates are.
Well Colby with respect to the integrations of previous acquisitions we are looking at our business going forward and what were trying to build for Level 3 with one network one product one systems that I talked about.
And so I wouldnt put any additional savings from previous integrations but what I would say is that we are trying to integrate the operational support systems so its easier for our employees to do their jobs and satisfy our customers better.
Were trying to make sure that we continue to evolve our network.
If you look at our ethernet product we have different platforms around the globe in which we delivered ethernet services.
We are moving to a single platform and well be able to deliver a uniform product across the globe wherever the customers are located and also a uniform system for our employees to use to deliver that product.
And so thats what were talking about is really creating that one set of products that one unified network and one set of operational support systems.
I guess to follow-up into that Jeff.
I mean I listen to John Blount at the recent Metro Connect Conference and part of what he said you guys are doing that for is to make it easier to make additional acquisitions thereafter integrating tw telecom.
How quickly do you think you could be ready to be doing that? Thats a good question and the one I am really not ready to answer.
I mean right now we are focused on tw telecom and we will always be opportunistic and looking at things going forward but were going to integrate tw telecom in Level 3 and build that environment that I talk about.
And then once completed I think that we will be in a good position to layer on acquisitions in a more straight forward and streamline fashion.
But for today we are focused on integrating tw telecom and delivering the growth opportunities that we see out of that acquisition.
Great well congrats on the quarter and the guidance.
Thank you Colby.
Next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Great thank you.
Just to follow-up could you it appears that your guidance does include your FX outlook.
Can you quantify that the total for a currency headwind for 2015.
And then on the further integration with the sales in the IT systems give us a little bit more color on exactly the types of systems that youre still looking to changeover and sort of a timeframe and what kind of cost savings will that represent when those are all switched over to the same platform? So on your first question as we look at - as I said we have assumed the current outlook on currencies with respect to EBITDA.
From a revenue perspective all my comments were driven by a constant currency basis meaning assuming what the growth would be on a constant currency basis.
So as I said I think unless the dollar continues to strengthen quite a bit more we can talk about it but even if it does strengthen a little from here it doesnt have as much impact to the EBITDA line as it does from an as reported revenue basis.
So I think weve factored that in.
From a sales and systems integration perspective if you look at our sales efforts we have gone through and aligned across the U.S.
and John Blounts organization all of the GMs weve taken about 60 of the GMs taking the best from both companies weve aligned their teams around the global opportunities that we have not only the local market opportunities but the global capabilities to bring those to the local markets.
Weve gone through and changed our channel structure somewhat moving some things inside sales some things to the GAM the Global Account Management team.
And so weve aligned that that structure and weve gone through and made it clear to every single sales employee what accounts they have.
We have a lot of change going on.
All of that is a lot.
In addition were going to synchronize compensation plans and other things throughout the next few quarters.
So theres a lot of activity in the integration of our sales team and making sure that were in a position to sell our global capabilities in North America and in EMEA and in Latin America.
With respect to systems as you might imagine Frank we have a fairly robust and complicated road map for our various systems some things our ERP.
We are standardizing ERP should be finished by the end of the year where we are globally operating on a single platform moving that towards the Level 3 systems that weve used.
On the customer relationship management we have a single platform were moving to that should be in the relatively short timeframe.
So that our sales team can use a common platform and that we can interface with that through the rest of our systems.
And if you look at our platforms I mentioned the ethernet platform but we are very actively and aggressively looking at our ethernet platform our IP VPN platform our internet services platforms and making sure that we synchronize those and build the product sets and the network to deliver those fairly quickly.
So there are a number of different initiatives that we have underway across all of those things and hopefully that gives you feel for it.
Okay great thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Kevin Smithen with Maquarie Capital.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Just a quick housekeeping question first if I may.
The $550 million to $600 million of free cash flow I want to - does that include acquisition cost is that comparable to the $325 million or the $261 million for 2014? So that includes everything and thats comparable to the $261 million.
And so yes there is no exclusions in that its a net net bottom line number.
Okay.
And then on the North American CNS commentary did that include TimeWarner Telecom in there or is that just standalone comparison when you made the comments about Starbucks et cetera impacting growth? No thats looking in everything.
The reference point I was using was the pro forma combined company CNS revenue which is in the press release and the growth rate that I was talking about referred to the combined company.
Can you Fourth quarter.
Can you give us a little granularity on individual product strength in U.S.
CNS ethernet MPLS fiber to the cell CDN SONET wavelength.
Any sort of color by product on where youre seeing strength and where the rest are? Yes I think the best place to look at that is that combined company pro forma mix byproduct that we have.
And I think the point there is that the product that is the largest on Page 13 or Slide 13.
Our largest products are the fastest growing ones.
So if you look at 46% of the revenue in the fourth quarter CNS revenues IP and data services and that is the fastest growing product.
We expect that to continue to be the case.
Voice services I dont see much growth there I mean somewhat stable.
I think collocation and data center revenues while they got hit by this last quarter.
We generally expect them to perform better over time.
And then transport and fiber which is 30% of the revenue base you see the growth there.
So I think within that I would say we generally think CDN should be better over time than the growth rate we just reported.
Fiber should continue to do well.
And then as far as fiber-to-the-tower thats not a big business for us.
It will grow over time.
But again thats not specific fiber-to-the-tower is not a product for us within the fiber segment.
Thats helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.
Please proceed.
Yes hi thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering if you talk a little bit more about your capital spending outlook for 2015.
Im wondering if you could break it down maybe into some components of what youre spending on and how we should think about what would be a maintenance or ongoing CapEx number relative to what youre spending on the growth initiatives? Thanks.
Sure.
So I mean if you look at the 15% of revenue guidance its more than $1.2 billion of CapEx roughly given an $8 billion revenue base.
So about $300 million to $350 million is maintenance I would say.
Weve already said this year well spend on top of that $70 million for integration CapEx.
The rest of the CapEx is really success-based capital for revenue growth.
And your further growth initiatives whats your biggest focus for the year is it connecting to new building is it building new routes maybe just a little bit more granularity on how to think about this? Thanks.
Sure yes so I think our objective is to maintain or improve the number of building ads weve had.
If you look at both the companies Level 3 was adding about 500 or so buildings a year tw was adding about 2 000.
So we expect to maintain or grow the amount of building adds generally.
We will upgrade capacity we will need more capacity for subsea routes terrestrial routes.
We are upgrading our infrastructure in many cases backbone infrastructure from 10-gig to 100-gig.
So well have moneys going in towards there.
There were going to keep expanding our network in the metropolitan areas meeting our fiber network in the metropolitan areas across all regions.
So youll have money being spent for that and there will be some money for geographic expansion.
So generally as Ive talked about and as Jeff talked about.
Were continuing to invest for growth not just for 2015 but for future years.
So its across all fronts.
And Jeff I dont know if you want to add anything.
I think thats right.
And the main point there is we are continuing to invest our capital.
We think there are great growth opportunities for us.
If you look at the five new markets that we added last year on a combined-company basis and the 28 markets that weve been expanding we think there are places and opportunities for us to invest capital.
If you look at Latin America were building a landing station in Columbia were continuing to invest in EMEA.
We want to build closer and closer to our customers and add them on that because we can provide a differentiated experience and they are very profitable opportunities for us.
And just Yes and we have about 40 000 buildings on that and were adding about 2 500 hopefully closer to 3 000 per year.
So there is a pretty aggressive expansion.
And just finally is there a free cash flow level or a net debt leverage level at which point when you hit it that it would increase your interest to return capital to shareholders whether its buybacks or dividend have you given thoughts what those levels might be that would give you some considerations on that front? Yes I think as weve talked about in the past we have continued to think actively about that.
I think we made a couple of comments as once we kind of hit our target leverage which is at the low end of 3% to 5% and we generate lots of free cash flow that is something that we are going to think more actively about.
So I think the right threshold will be when we get to that low end of the 3% to 5% range for net debt to EBITDA.
And weve said that we are very focused on free cash flow per share growth and that - and we will continue to have that focus as a company.
Thanks very much.
Next question comes from the line of Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi this is Eric Pan for Phil.
I just wanted to clarify does the EBITDA guidance include the estimated $50 million of integration costs? Yes the EBITDA guidance does include that.
Okay great.
And what has the sales force churn been like since the integration.
Can you give us some color on whether its had increase or stayed same.
Thanks.
Yes this is a very good question.
Since the closing weve not seen an increase in churn and has been about what it was before.
And if you look at our top performance it is actually lower than it was before.
And so weve got a lot of change going on and were going to do a lot of things in the sales organization this year.
But I think that our sales team sees the same thing that we see which are great opportunities with the products and services we sell to take them just to their customers and grow with our company.
And so we have not seen an increase in churn and are very focused on that and very pleased in John Blount and the other regional presidents who are working to make sure that that we stay very in tune with our sales force.
Great thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Horan with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Great thanks guys.
Sunit may be you can go through how - what you expect a little bit more on revenues for the year just may be some timing.
So it sounds like Jeff you dont really expect any dissynergies from customer overlap or redundancy but can you can focus a little bit more on specific products that either company didnt have in the past and may be you could see some better cross-selling and how long that might take to kick in? And then Sunit just may be an update on where you are - what the overall NOL number is give any color around that? Thanks.
Sure so the NOL number is $10.3 billion of U.S.
NOL.
And in general I think weve got a decent NOL position in EMEA.
Really the only place that we are incurring cash income taxes in Latin America mostly Brazil than any other place.
And then back to your revenue point I think that the cross-selling opportunities are there but well see them happen more late in the year next year because both the sales forces are to be trained on the combined companies products and platforms as effective as Jeff said month.
Now every sales person knows what accounts they are covering.
So whether its - things like CDN services that we have collaboration services that we have or long-haul services being offered outside of the U.S.
to tw telecoms base would be good.
Cross-selling opportunities similarly some of the smaller customers within the Level 3 on that building footprint would be good customers to sell to given the capabilities that tw telecom have in terms of callcenters to go focus on those segments.
So theres quite a number of opportunities but we think that that will take few quarters to get going and well probably start seeing - if we see the benefit of that well probably be seeing more more next year or later this year is what I would say.
Jeff I dont know if youd want to add I just add that you know if you look at things like ethernet services which is one of the fastest growing products or cloud solutions tw and Level 3 were the two leaders in those areas.
So for ethernet services weve been able to combine the capabilities that tw had with the capabilities of Level 3.
And that brings a lot to our ability to grow that market with those products and services.
If you look at constellation which was the cloud product that tw had been building and the Cloud Connect Solutions at Level 3 have weve been able to - were growing to be able to take the best capabilities of both of those and deliver a product in the service over a footprint that somewhat unmatched by anyone else in the industry.
And so some of those are the capabilities that make us - made us excited about the tw telecom acquisition late last fall that but it make us even more excited about them today as we see the real capabilities in it.
And now really what about revenue dissynergies from customer overlap at this point I know Global Crossing there was a little bit more of that? Yes on the Global Crossing side there were a lot of wholesale Internet providers that bought services from both Global and Level 3.
And thats where you see those revenue dyssynergies.
We had a very little overlap in that area from tw telecom.
We have a lot of overlap from big wholesale customers that if theyre buying a local circuit from tw telecom in Atlanta and theyre buying something a local circuit from Level 3 in Dallas there is no real negative revenue synergies associated with that.
Great and congratulations on everything.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi this is Lisa for Simon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Can you talk a little bit more about the competitive environment that youre seeing and just how youve been seeing the recent booking trends given the - that you just closed the acquisition during the late last year? Thanks.
Sure so I think from a bookings perspective we are grappling with just constant common definition so thats why we do make too much commentary on bookings.
I would say sales were a little softer in the fourth quarter some of that not too surprising given the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays.
And then I think that - Im trying to think whats the other part of your question Lisa Sure [Multiple Speakers] For the comparative environment sorry.
So comparative environment I would say they continue to be consolidation currents going through.
So the comparative environment I would say is stable.
Weve also seen rumors of - with Verizon and AT&amp;T with asset sales.
Well see what transpires there.
I think that in summary I would say the comparative environment is benign but obviously we have to guard and win business every day.
So you do have to be sharp but no big changes that were seeing in the environment.
Jeff? No and I think we like our competitive position.
If you look at the breath of our product portfolio we have everything from infrastructure services data center and [indiscernible] and fiber all the way up to CDN and DDoS protection and security services and managed services.
Across that spectrum it gives us the ability to solve each customers unique networking challenges and on a global basis.
And so we like that competitive position and think that very few other companies are really in a position to deliver for the full networking needs the customers have.
Great.
And I guess just in terms of you brought it up with the Verizon AT&amp;T asset sales do you have any opinions on kind of how that would play out? Yeah.
Other than what you read about in the papers and rumors I dont...
Okay thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Michael Funk with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Yes thank you for taking the questions.
I have a couple here.
First on integration at least relative to my expectations youre running a little bit ahead on the synergy front.
Maybe you can comment on the achievement of synergies so far and your expectation for the shape of that during 2015.
Second on the combined-company ability to maybe address a different customer base maybe some early anecdotal evidence of the attractiveness of the combined Level 3 tw telecom based on larger footprint and improve financial strength.
Okay so on the synergies no I think the synergy that we reported are sort of in line because obviously in the first quarter you do get benefit at the senior management level you get a fair bit of benefit right there and most of them who are in the SG&amp;A side.
I think that the nature of where the synergies come from will change across the air.
Well start seeing a bigger contribution from network expense reductions or network access costs reductions over the course of the year.
And so different quarters youll see different levels of progress but I would say that so far the synergies were attaining are in line with what we expected.
From a different customer base I think that youll see on the tw telecom side well tend to move up to larger customers then and maybe they focused on in the past.
If you think back they didnt have a long-haul network really to sell and so when long-haul deals nationwide deals were in the mix they tended not to win those when there were global deals in the mix they tended not to win at all.
And probably didnt even bid on many of those.
So well see that side of our business move up market a little bit from customers.
If you look from the Level 3 side the customer base probably stays the same but our product capabilities improve.
If you look at the 30 000 buildings that tw telecom had we - and then very little overlap in those buildings with the Level 3.
We now have a bigger footprint to sell our products and services to those customers.
We know that when we sell on net its better margin for us its a better experience for the customer its easier for us to deliver services and maintain those services in a more reliable fashion than when we have to use off-net providers.
And I touched on some of the product benefits already with respect to constellation and the capabilities that brings us our CDN and the capabilities that brings to our other side of the tw telecom business One quick clarification...
Sure.
One quick clarification I mean you highlighted that the revenue exposure around 20% international.
I think the real EBITDA exposure is around high single-digits is that correct? CapEx? Yes as I said its lower because of Yes.
We are struck but yes.
So whatever impact we see on the revenue side is dampened quite significantly on the EBITDA side.
Great thank you.
Next question comes from the line of James Moorman with D.
A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Yes thanks for taking the question.
First in fact to the integration of the sales force with the new sales assignment is there any - how much - or is there are any like areas where there is a big impact like a big shift where people kind of getting new customers or is it more of a minor type of things that we shouldnt really see much of an impact from that? And then also on CDN revenue any comments about I know we wont know anything more I guess possibly until tomorrow on the net neutrality but how that might potentially benefit your impact CDN going forward? Thanks.
Sure with respect to the sales impact and Im going to give a broader statement.
We have a lot of change going on within our sales force and we are very aware of that.
And whether its the account moves or the compensation alignment or the new product set and product portfolio we are very aware that we have a lot of change going on.
And our leadership team is focused on making sure that we give the sales team what they need to be successful.
Weve seen in my comment earlier on the churn weve seen that thats working so far because thats the first indicator.
If the sales person loses confidence in their ability to sell at Level 3 then they will leave us.
And if you look at our top performance churn churn is down and if we look at the average sales force the churn is about the same as it was prior to the acquisition.
And so we have a lot of change going on but were very confident about it and working very hard and very closely with the team to make sure that we are focused on the things that will drive our growth and drive our success in that integration.
With respect to net neutrality in CDN well - lets wait and see.
I dont want to speculate too much on where things might go.
But in general were pleased that the regulators are recognizing that interconnection is a bigger part of net neutrality as anything else.
And we think that theyre moving in the right direction.
Youve heard talk about dispute mechanisms if you have a dispute with a local monopoly provider where you can have a process for resolving some of these issues.
So well see whether they turnout but generally the direction is positive for us.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Ana Goshko with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Hi thanks very much for getting me in.
So Sunit and Jeff I guess these free cash flow guidance implies that you should end the year with over $1 billion of cash its a nice thing to have.
And so Im wondering with that much cash how you think about youre targeted - of the target cash balance and even minimum cash balance and you were asked about the potential to refi bonds but you have with that cash you can actually pay down callable bonds with cash and then help reduce debt interest expense in that way.
So I am wondering if this could be a year where we actually just see actually debt reduction rather than refinancing.
Sure good question.
I mean I think we said for quite some time that we view cash balance of at least $500 million as like a minimum for us I think nothing has changed there.
Refinancing debt also cost money in terms of debt premiums and refinancing costs.
And we are using our cash to do that so that our debt outstanding does not go up.
I think youve seen that as a common thing weve done so I think that will continue.
And then as far as debt pay downs go we are not currently thinking of debt pay downs but it is a question we would have to think about in the context next year of what are the best ways to optimize free cash flow per share whether its debt pay downs or share buybacks or any other mechanisms.
So we would study that.
So that will be next years question to study.
This year were just focused on getting integrating tw telecom hitting on the synergies hitting our free cash flow targets.
And as we indicated our net debt-to-EBITDA target is at the low end of three to five times.
We think that a lot of that will come from adjusted EBITDA growth.
We do see strong EBITDA growth this year and also next year.
So I think that the combination of that should get us there even without any debt pay downs.
But it is an option for us and we have to look that compared to other options that we have.
And as I said this is for next years considerations.
Okay and then just a quick follow-up on business.
So in the North American segment you talked about the lower growth rate versus last year and some of the reasons.
What are you seeing on the wholesale side from career consolidation? I know in the past there is a lag effect often so when your careers consolidate particularly in the wireless space it takes a while for that traffic to get migrated off.
Is there still headwinds from that or you are seeing the end of that? So a couple of points I think last year was a decent year on the wholesale side for us in North America.
We didnt see some of those impacts you are talking about.
Some of that also remember we didnt have consolidation in the wireless sector.
And there is couple of things right now in front of the government for approval.
Well see how those transpire.
But I think stepping back away from all of this Jeff says that and Ill say that this also which is we expect to see our growth come from the enterprise segment over time.
The wholesale business in general we see as kind of declining slightly every year.
Now in any particular good year its tough to predict.
So what happens for all the reasons that youve mentioned that weve talked about and I would say that this year is not different from any other year with that - from that perspective.
But we think the wholesale segment is a very valuable segment for us.
It gives us a lot of scale demanding customers that make us better provider our services but having said that where all our growth is going to be coming is from the enterprise segment over the next years.
Correct thats it.
Okay thanks very much.
Sure.
I think we have one question left on the call.
So operator lets do the last question.
Our last question comes from the line of Nick Del Deo with MoffettNathanson.
Please proceed.
Hi guys thanks for squeezing me in.
Ive got two EMEA questions one for Jeff one for Sunit.
For Jeff I realize its early days.
The permanent leadership has only been in place for few months.
But I was wondering if you could talk a bit about some of the specific changes youre starting to make over there.
And I guess more importantly your confidence and your ability to materially improve that segments performance over the next few years.
And then for Sunit recognizing that youre focused on tw telecom right now youve mentioned in the past that M&amp;A in Europe could be attractive.
Does the strength of the dollar make deals more pealing or you think the transactions particularly in local currency in which case its not relevant consideration.
Sure Ill start and - actually Sunit you do your course.
Sure.
So with respect to M&amp;A in Europe I think as weve said in the past we have been - our history has been built on acquisition.
Were pretty much focused on tw integration.
Right now we think M&amp;A in Europe continues to be an interesting landscape.
And yes while the dollar has strengthened its a consideration remember that any business we might look to buy there will be denominated in euros or sterling or both currencies.
So I think we continued to be interested its tough to predict when and how and if something will happen.
But as Jeff has mentioned in the past and as I have we think that our business is not at the level of skill that wed like it to be.
And over time we will look for opportunities there.
Our near term focus is tw telecom integration.
With respect to EMEA I will go into a lot of the specific changes that Andrew is making but he is making changes in the sales organization for enterprise hes making changes in the strategy organization the product organizations and continuing to look at how we serve our customers over there and improving our operations in all of the different things.
If you look at Andrews background just for a minute few years ago he ran our wholesale business.
Sunit talked about the North America wholesale performance this year.
If you look at the challenge in EMEA wholesale has been a big challenge for us in the last year.
And so Andrews ability and proven track record of working with wholesale customers and understanding the wholesale business and delivering in wholesale result is something that I have high confidence in.
If you look at where were making progress in EMEA but we wanted to be better is on our enterprise.
We made good progress in selling to enterprise customers last year but we think we can do better.
And if you look at Andrews background and history over the last couple of years in running North America we made tremendous progress and our ability to sell to enterprise customers.
And so looking at Andrew and his background and the track record that he brings Im very confident in our ability to do some of the things that weve talked about.
When it comes to the UK government I have less confidence and soon it reflected that in our outlook.
And I think that has much to do with the buying pattern of the UK government.
We thought a couple of years ago that they were going to change the way they bought and bought by pieces from different carriers it turns out that they tend to buy full breadth solutions including a whole bunch of things that we dont do.
They want to have full solutions from some of their providers.
And so I think theres less opportunity for Andrew to make a huge difference in the UK government but if you look at what weve done in North America and again Andrew is responsible - was a key driver in what weve done with the U.S.
government.
Weve been very successful at getting into the business starting small and growing and growing and growing our importance to the customer.
And so I think that well continue to do that.
If you look at our network and our capabilities in Europe we have a good network.
We have good capabilities.
Were continuing to introduce products and standardizing those products.
And so I think that we have good opportunities in Europe and again one of the three key priorities for our company this year is to make sure that that we live up to our potential.
I want to - before we end the call Id like to leave you all with a few thoughts.
We are highly focused on the successful integration of tw telecom.
Were focused on improving our performance in EMEA and believe that we have the right leader in place and the right team in place to drive the results.
Weve reached the transformational point in our companys history in terms of free cash flow generation.
And while 2015 is somewhat of a transitional year we expect to significantly improve free cash flow and we remain focused on driving profitable growth and free cash flow per share.
We look forward to the successful 2015 and sharing our results with you over the coming quarters.
And as always we really appreciate your questions and your interest in Level 3.
Operator this concludes the call.
Thank you Jeff.
We would like to thank everyone for your participation and for using the Level 3 conferencing service today.
This does conclude the conference call for today.
We ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Level 3 First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday April 29 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Valerie Finberg.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Mike.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications first quarter 2015 earnings call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Id like to draw your attention to the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at investors.level3.com.
On this site are the presentation materials that accompany this call the earnings press release and supplemental financial information.
Comparisons to prior periods are being presented on the pro forma basis assuming that our acquisition of tw telecom took placed on January 1 2014.
In addition the growth rates disclosed in our presentation and remarks are on a year-over-year basis.
Revenue and sales comparisons to prior periods are provided on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement that begins on page two of our 1Q 15 earnings presentation.
The presentation and remarks contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results can be found in Level 3s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation.
With that Ill turn the call over to Jeff.
Thanks Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Level 3 had a good start to the year with solid execution and integration and continued focus on profitable growth.
Over the past few quarters we've outlined our three key priorities.
First and foremost the successful integration of Level 3 and tw telecom second is enabling EMEA to live up to its full potential and deliver the growth we believe we can achieve in that region third is positioning Level 3 for growth well into the future.
After Sunit reviews our financial results I will briefly discuss each of these with most of my comments on the integration of tw telecom.
After that we'll open it up to your questions.
Sunit I will turn the call over to you.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
We started 2015 with the good quarter and we made steady progress on capturing annualized run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies.
Given the first quarter run rate performance on adjusted EBITDA we are raising our 2015 outlook for adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow.
I'll start on slide three of our first quarter earnings presentation.
Our Core Network Services revenue for the first quarter of 2015 grew 6% year-over-year.
Our Enterprise Core Services revenue grew 8.1% year-over-year.
Including integration-related expenses of $5 million adjusted EBITDA grew to $635 million.
We generated free cash flow of $51 million and since the acquisition closed we have now achieved $95 million in annualized run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies.
Turning to slide four our CNS revenue grew 6% on a constant currency basis and 3.9% on an as reported basis.
The difference in growth rates is due to the strengthening of the dollar.
Outside of the U.S.
dollar which represents 88% of CNS revenue our top three foreign currencies are the British pound the euro and the Brazilian real representing 5% 3% and 3% of CNS revenue respectively.
On a revenue-weighted average basis those three currencies declined 13% against the dollar compared to the year ago quarter and negatively affected us CNS revenue growth by approximately 2% this quarter.
On a regional basis North America CNS revenue grew 7% and Enterprise CNS revenue grew 8.8%.
In EMEA CNS revenue declined 0.8% on a constant currency basis and 9.2% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise CNS revenue excluding U.K.
Government grew 5.7% on a constant currency basis and declined 2.6% on an as reported basis.
U.K Government revenue grew 4.5% in the first quarter but declined sequentially.
For the full year we expect U.K Government to decline a little less than the 17% decline we saw last year which is a slight improvement from our previous outlook.
U.K Government should continue to decline sequentially the rest of this year.
Overall we still expect U.K Government to keep declining over the next several years.
This revenue is now 1.4% of total CNS revenue.
EMEA Wholesale CNS revenue declined 11% on a constant currency basis and 20% on an as reported basis driven primarily by industry consolidation and associated customer disconnects as well as our focus on profitable growth.
As we mentioned last quarter we expect better performance and comparisons in Wholesales over the remainder of the year.
In Latin America CNS revenue grew 6.2% on a constant currency basis and declined 2.6% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 5.8% on a constant currency basis and declined 3.3% on an as reported basis.
For the first quarter Wholesale CNS revenue grew 7.4% on a constant currency basis and was flat on an as reported basis.
We expect the Enterprise business to show stronger performance over the balance of the year.
With respect to Venezuela we moved to the CCAT 1 rate in the second quarter of last year.
Currently there is a three-tiered exchange rate mechanism in Venezuela for exchanging bolivars into U.S.
dollars.
The first is the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars per U.S.
dollar.
The second is the CCAT 1 rate that we are using which is currently at 12 bolivars to the dollar.
And the third is a new open market foreign exchange system called the Simadi exchange rate that was established in February 2015 and was 193 bolivars to the U.S.
dollar at March 31 2015.
At this time the majority of our transactions with customers and suppliers are at the CCAT 1 rate.
We will continue to closely monitor activity in Venezuela with respect to exchange rates and we expect that future changes regarding exchange mechanisms could result in a negative effect of Venezuela operations profit cash flows and cash balance.
At the end of the first quarter the companys cash balance in Venezuela maintained in Bolivars was US$72 million at the CCAT run rate and we had about $20 million in revenue in the period.
Also voice services and other or WVS revenue declined 16% to $126 million in the first quarter of 2014.
We expect continued double-digit rates of decline in WVS revenue in 2015.
Moving to churn.
As many of you aware Level 3 had a slightly different methodology in calculating churn from tw telecom.
As part of our integration activities we have adopted tw telecoms methodology which we believe provides a better representation or true churn or disconnects because that definition excluded churn or disconnects that were replaced by an upgraded service by the same customer between the same locations.
On a combined company basis CNS revenue churn was 1%.
This was a slight improvement from 1.1% also on a combined company basis from both the first quarter of last year and the fourth quarter of 2014.
Slide five provides an overview of the mix between CNS versus WVS revenue and CNS revenue on a geographic and customer basis.
Turning to slide six and revenue results by Product Group which I would like to note are shown on an as reported basis.
Because currency had a larger effect on our revenue this quarter we also noted these results on a constant currency basis.
The companys growth continues to be driven by our IP and data services which grew 9%.
Within that group CDN revenue grew 2.4%.
We expect CDN performance to improve later in the year as we deploy more capacity.
Transport and fiber grew 5.4%.
Within transport and fiber dark fiber grew 3.2%.
Voice services grew 0.6% and colocation and datacenter services grew 3.8%.
Regarding pricing as we have said for several quarters we have seen little change in the pricing environment.
We remain disciplined across our product portfolio and service regions in driving profitable growth.
Turning to slide seven network access margin expanded to 64.8% compared to 64% in the first quarter 2014.
The improvement in network access margin was driven by integration related network synergies with continued high margin CNS revenue growth and low margin WVS revenue declines.
Network related expenses excluding noncash compensation were $351 million for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $347 million in the first quarter of 2014.
SG&amp;A excluding noncash compensation expenses and integration related expenses for the first quarter was $339 million.
This compares to $342 million for the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to slide eight.
Adjusted EBITDA including integration related expenses were $635 million for the first quarter of 2015.
Excluding integration related expenses of $5 million adjusted EBITDA was $640 million.
This compares to $625 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 and $593 million for the first quarter of 2014.
The improvement in adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by good progress in capturing operating expense synergies.
Adjusted EBITDA margin including acquisition related expenses improved to 30.9% compared to 29.6% for the first quarter of 2014.
Moving to synergies.
Since the acquisition closed we have achieved approximately $95 million of annualized run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies with $14 million of network access cost synergies and $81 million of operating expense synergies.
We have clearly made good progress capturing OpEx synergies thus far.
For the remainder of the year we expect to make more progress capturing network access related synergies.
On slide nine capital expenditures were $254 million in the first quarter of 2015 representing 12% of total revenue.
For the full year 2015 we continue to expect capital expenditures of approximately 15% of total revenue.
The company generated free cash flow of $51 million in the quarter.
Cash flow saw a benefit this quarter driven by timing of both capital expenditures and approximately $20 million in net cash interest expense that we had expected to incur in the first quarter but was pushed to the second quarter since we redeemed debt that we had refinanced upto April 1 in the second quarter versus our expectation in the first quarter.
As of March 31 2015 the company had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $560 million pro forma for the redemption of the 9.375% notes on April 1 2105.
Turning to slide 10.
As noted in our earnings release we completed several capital market transactions over the past few months as we opportunistically managed the balance sheet.
Related to those transactions we expect to incur a $136 million noncash charge for the extinguishment of debt in the second quarter.
These 2015 refinancing transactions in total save us about $64 million in annualized cash interest expense.
We exited the quarter with our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at 4.2 times on a pro forma basis.
This compares to 4.4 times at the end of last quarter.
We remain focused on getting to the low end of our target leverage range of 3 to 5 times driven by growth in adjusted EBITDA.
Our average interest rate on our debt is now 5.3% compared to 6.8% a year ago for Level 3 standalone.
Moving onto our outlook for the year on slide 11.
Based on first quarter performance synergy attainment and continued focus on profitable growth we are updating our outlook for the full year 2015.
We now expect adjusted EBITDA growth of 14% to 17% for the full year 2015 compared to our previous outlook of 12% to 16%.
We are also raising our full year 2015 free cash flow outlook to $600 million to $650 million which compares to our previous outlook of $550 million to $600 million.
Additionally based on our recent capital markets activity we now expect $660 million in GAAP interest expense and $645 million on net cash interest expense compared to our previous guidance of $680 million and $640 million respectively.
All other guidance measures remain unchanged and are listed here on the slide.
Last quarter in my remarks on the conference call we had provided our outlook for 2015 CNS constant currency revenue growth performance on a regional basis compared to what we saw in 2014.
That outlook remains intact.
For North America we expect CNS revenue growth to be a little softer than the 6.8% growth we saw in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For Latin America we expect comparable performance to the 8.5% growth we saw in 2014.
For EMEA we expect a decline that will be smaller than 2.2% decline we saw in 2014.
In summary we had a good start to the year and remain confident in our financial performance for the remainder of the year.
We feel good about the progress were making in achieving the synergies as we integrate tw telecom.
We look forward to reporting our progress next quarter.
With that Ill turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Sunit.
Since the acquisition of tw telecom weve talked about 2015 as a transition year for Level 3.
If I look back on the six months since the acquisition closed Im pleased with how much weve accomplished and the lack of surprises.
To be clear no surprises is a good thing.
The customer experience tw telecom provided is as good as we expected.
Our combined portfolio of products and services address the ever-changing challenges our enterprise customers face and are well received in the market.
The strength of the combined network provides a solid foundation for those products and services.
And given the lack of customer overlap between the companies there's been very little revenue lost driven by the need for diversity.
Operationally weve seen very few surprises as well.
Maintaining the sales momentum we experienced pre-close has been a key focus area.
While sales were a little light at the end of the fourth quarter and the beginning of the first quarter overall weve been pleased with the result and March was a very good sales month.
In spite of all the changes in all of the integration efforts sales in the first quarter of 2015 improved over the same period last year.
Service delivery intervals are always critical indicators of our integration efforts.
Our North America service delivery team has done a very good job and maintained our installation performance.
Looking at the acquisition synergies we are ahead of schedule and are determined to capture synergies while also maintaining the customer experience.
From a platform perspective we have interconnected the networks we standardized our go-forward architectures globally and have begun implementing a unified network design.
And lastly the systems integration and development work has begun in earnest and we are building a companywide platform for growth well into the future.
As the heart of our integration plans has been a focus on our people building one company culture is important to our success and as a result it receives a lot of our attention.
Even prior to the close we determined the go-forward organization structure and the leadership team and communicated those decisions to employees clearly and early.
Shortly after close we standardized our benefits for all of our North America employees.
In early February we began integrating the sales organization solidifying the general manager environment and assigning the go-forward accounts to our sales people.
At that same time we established our global account management team to provide a deeper focus on major customers doing business across multiple regions.
At the beginning of this month we rolled out a single customer relationship management or CRM system across North America and EMEA and have implemented a unified sales compensation structure in North America.
This is a lot of change for sales force.
While there have certainly been issues along the way and it is way too early to declare success leading indicators are important.
Our sales teams confidence in the combined product and service portfolio remains strong.
Voluntary sales force churn is consistent with premerger levels.
The quality of the sales funnel continues to improve and our first quarter sales results improved over the same period last year.
Ive discussed our key priority of positioning Level 3 for future growth.
Many of the integration initiatives I've mentioned are really the foundation of the global company we are building whether in our product portfolio our operational capabilities or our platforms we're building Level 3 as a global solution for our customers networking needs.
While were focused on integration we have not lost sight of the need for continual innovation.
As an example we announced the launch of our expanded DDoS platform this quarter.
Our customers have very real and strategic security challenges and they look to Level 3 to safeguard their networks and protect their capabilities.
Level 3s unique position in the industry and our ability to see a comprehensive view of the threat landscape allows us to work with enterprises to effectively protect their networks.
Turning to the EMEA.
We continue to make changes in management improve our sales discipline enhance our operational performance and focus our investments on profitable growth opportunities.
I believe we are on the right path to improve performance but it's still early in the process.
We will share our progress in future calls.
Sunit provided commentary on our financial performance in Latin America but I wanted to add a little bit.
I spent time in LatAm last month and I wanted you to know we have an excellent team there.
They continue to be optimistic about our opportunity and despite the macro pressures in those countries the dynamics that drive our business in the region dynamics like bandwidth growth migration to cloud services and the evolution to the new IT base technologies all of those dynamics remain intact in the region.
Across our business customers tell us they appreciate our intimate knowledge of their communications challenges our ability to design solutions to meet their needs and the personal touch they see from our team.
All of these factors are helping to position Level 3 as the communications provider of choice.
With that well open it up for your questions.
Operator would you explain the process? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Scott Goldman with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Guys a couple of questions.
First maybe you can just talk little about the strengths in the North American enterprise.
What's driving the strength there? It seems as though on a constant currency basis -- North America but you started the year at a faster growth rate than what your full year guidance would imply.
And then second Jeff I appreciate your comments on LatAm.
Maybe just talk little bit about what contributed to the little bit slower start than what you might have been expecting for the full year there? And Sunit made the comment that you expected enterprise to get stronger in LatAm throughout the year.
Just talk about what the drivers are in the region? Thank you.
Scott I will take the LatAm question first.
So I think in LatAm we had a very strong sales quarter in the first quarter and looking at the backlog they have and the strength they see in the sales score in the fuss score in the funnel we see the enterprise business growth improving over the balance of the year.
Theyve also had quite a bit of strength in the wholesale segment then we think some of that will continue for the rest of the year.
So when you put both of those together we think that you will see better performance here.
I think on the North American enterprise business as Jeff pointed out we started off with a good sales quarter and that helped.
But on the revenue performance as we pointed out last quarter remember that last year as we said three months ago we were pending up a lot of Starbucks revenue and we had some fed contracts that we won in 2013 that we were pending up in 14.
So we don't have the benefit of those two things this year.
But aside from those two things I think the turn in the business across all segments including federal is pretty good.
Jeff if you could add anything to that? I think thats right.
Sunits last statement is one that I will key on.
The tone in the business is pretty good across our business.
If you look at LatAm the tone in the business the drivers of our growth in the region those are all pretty strong and pretty solid.
The same is true in North America.
If I could just follow-up on the North American side you definitely talk about the Starbucks in the government.
I think some government stuff that you won in 2014.
Is there any sense for that? How we should we be thinking about the timing of when those came in 14 so we can think about the anniversary of those and how that might impact growth on a go-forward basis? Well as I mentioned in my comments we expect and as we said last quarter we expect the North American business to be a little softer than the 6.8% growth we saw in the fourth quarter of 2014.
For this quarter we were close to 6% so obviously that counts the year-over-year comparisons.
Softening I think you'll see that continue for a little bit this year.
And again it's all tied into the -- its more last years story than this years and that we were turning up those contracts that we won in earlier years in 2014.
And now that they are more largely turned up thats the impact you are seeing.
But other than that generally the business across the board looks good.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Cusick with J.P.
Morgan.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Sunit when I saw you couple months ago you were thinking about the potential for sales force disruption once youve paid annual bonuses.
What did you see as sort of March and April came through? I will let Jeff answer that question.
The only thing I would say is weve talked about we did look across the sales force at the bottom performance and so we had some reductions which we thought were outflow.
But overall I will let Jeff talk about sales force.
Sure.
If you look at our sales force we are down from where we were in the fourth quarter.
Almost all of that was planned on our part as Sunit mentioned that we look at the bottom percentage of our sales force and continually managed low performing people either to make them better or move them out of the business.
But we also look at the skill set we need and the confidence we need to fit our go-to market strategy and so we are continually evolving making sure that each of our various sales channels have the right people or have the right size to match the opportunities thats in front of them.
And so we will continue to manage that.
We havent seen yet so involuntary or excuse me voluntary sales attrition outside of what we saw prior to the close of the merger so we are feeling pretty good about that.
But we made a lot change to the sales organization.
And a lot of that change is just now implementing.
And so in my comments I said it's too early to declare success.
But we are paying very close attention.
Our sales team knows how critical they are and rather than focusing on the number of sales people we have in our sales channels we focus on the productivity of those sales channels the overall output of those.
And we know that the more productive we can make our sales people the happier they are more the more they stay with us the better we grow as a business.
And so we are focused on making each and every sales person very productive and making sure that we give them the best place to work in the industry.
Thats great.
And backlog you used a bit of quarter-to-quarter is that seasonal or it has anything to do with the transition? Thanks I think as Jeff pointed out unlike in other periods our service delivery organization is doing a pretty good job and Im happy to say that could be installed at a good pace.
And we havent had any issues which is good for us meaning for our investors and also keeps customers happy.
So we continue to be pleased with that the performance of our service delivery organization.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Yeah.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
Good to see the progress on the synergy realization.
Is this primarily a timing thing or do you think there might be ability to get upside or you have seen some opportunities that perhaps you haven't put in your $200 million guidance? And I know all the guidance is really on the cost trend and CapEx side.
What about revenue synergies? Have you seen any progress on trying to cross-sell products into each customer set? Thanks.
Ill take first part of the question.
Jeff can talk about the revenue synergies part.
So on the cost side I think its timing mostly.
Simon I dont think we see more synergies pursue at this point.
I think that what happened is all our various organizations were functions within the company.
Move to -- and felt confident in moving a little earlier on the cost reductions one part being the sales side as Jeff pointed out develop and we havent seen any loss in sales production there as we pointed out and the second side in all the other functions just people taking out cost out earlier.
So Id say its timing on the OpEx side.
We expect more progress on the net add side.
So at this point we dont see more synergies per se.
I think weve just had a strong start and obviously thats in the run rate which is benefiting overall EBITDA.
If you look at revenue synergies Simon we described and view 2015 as a transition year.
And we are focused on making sure that we integrate the two companies well that we build the platform for our future success that we do the basics that we need to be doing today to position Level 3 for growth well into the future but cross-selling and upselling is part of that.
And as you guys know most of our new sales come from existing customers and so we will continue to focus on cross-sell and upsell opportunities.
But believe the 2015 is a transition year where we are putting our sales force through an enormous amount of change and our customers to a fair amount of change as well.
And so we are really focused on making sure that we make that transition well and that we work closely with our customers to satisfy their needs on a daily basis.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you.
Two if I may.
First off I just wanted to get company sense on comfort rounding additional M&amp;A particularly outside the United States.
It seems like youre doing well with the TW Telecom transaction and senior managements ability to focus on something like that.
And then the second question.
You did debt refis a little bit faster this year than we had anticipated.
Can you just remind us whats still out there that could potentially be call in 2015 and even 2016? Thank you.
Ill take the second question and Jeff can answer the first one.
So on the debt refi I think youre right.
We moved quickly to take advantage of the debt markets.
We currently do not have any fixed rate debt or bonds that are callable until next year.
So I think that at least on the bond side is not much to do this year.
And then on the bank side which is our floating rate debt we continue to look at that to see if any -- there might be opportunities there.
But I think we are generally done with respect to bond refinancings for this year.
And with respect to M&amp;A M&amp;A is part of our strategy.
We look at gaps in our capabilities.
We look at gaps in our network.
We look at opportunities to add customers and view M&amp;A as the mechanism to do all of those things.
And so well continue to focus on M&amp;A.
Its opportunistic by the very nature of it.
Outside the U.S.
as you mentioned Colby is probably more in our targets than maybe inside the U.S.
given that weve just done the TW Telecom acquisition.
The real comment I want to leave though in your mind about M&amp;A is we will not do anything from an M&amp;A perspective that causes us to damage our integration of TW Telecom.
That is the highest priority for us in the business.
And I think youre right in saying that the North America team management team is focused well on that.
And so if we were to do something outside of North America I think it creates less of a distraction but we will not do anything from an M&amp;A perspective that harms our ability to integrate TW Telecom effectively.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Del Deo with MoffettNathanson.
Please proceed.
Okay.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Actually I had two.
First your CapEx was pretty low this quarter.
I was wondering if we should expect to ramp over the next three quarters to get up to your 15% guidance range or if its possible that during the year it might come in a bit right? And second I think there were two transatlantic systems that are supposed to be coming on line this year.
Its been a long time since any new transatlantic systems have been built.
So I was wondering if you could talk a bit about whether or not you think these are -- just forward thinking about your transatlantic business.
Maybe talk a bit more generally on those assets.
Whats your revenue contribution that makes saleable business and their importance in terms of driving the latest sales? Let me start and then Sunit probably has some that he wants to add to it.
First of all on the CapEx our guidance -- we gave guidance of 15% of revenue.
Were still comfortable with that.
CapEx spending is lumpy.
If you look at the first quarter its usually a little wider than the rest of the year and so were still very comfortable with our 15% guidance as a percentage of revenue.
With respect to transatlantic there are new cables coming on line over the next couple of years.
Thats not only true in transatlantic.
Thats through in South America and other places.
And we view those assets -- the assets that we have has a competitive strategic advantage and our ability to operate.
Having said that were always looking at ways to lower our cost for the next build capacity and well work with those systems to see how it make sense for Level 3 to take advantage of whats coming on line.
But those assets that we have the subsea asset are still an advantage for Level 3 and something that we continue to work hard to monetize effectively.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you Nick.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you.
Just two quick questions just curious how are you viewing the market outlook post the breakup of the Comcast-Time Warner Cable.
Obviously that would've been a more formidable competitor in the marketplace.
Did that change your outlook and so do you see opportunities there? And are there any sort of non-core businesses that you might monetize? Youve done a very good job at refinancing and using your cash for those purposes anything else you might stream line the business with or jettison to get more focused on the core business and possibly delever some more? Yeah.
With respect to the first I mean on the first question on Time Warner Cable and Comcast.
We dont have any specific comments on that deal dont really think we change our outlook for the year based on whether that deal went through or not.
Both companies are very good customers of ours both companies weve worked very closely with to continue to evolve the industry and look forward to working with them in the future.
Now with respect to non-core assets nothing in particular we look at all of our business and say how do we drive profitable growth and how do we drive free cash flow on a per share basis.
And so we will continue to look at things if they are non-core assets.
We will continue to look at interest expenses.
Well continue to look at all of the different things in our business that we think are levers to drive improving free cash flow per share.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the competitive environment? And what you are seeing in terms of other fab providers and their ability to compete against you? Also if you can within that context maybe talk a little about the products within enterprise? And whats going really well with those products and are there any products that you have in that portfolio that may actually be holding back the performance in revenue? Thanks.
Yeah.
I think Sunit and I both have lot to comment on this topic.
From a competitive environment perspective we are in a very competitive industry.
And there are lots of companies that sell the types of product and services that we sell.
And so we are very accustomed to competing in a competitive industry with -- and competing on the strength of our product and the strength of our customers experience.
If you -- if you look at our products from a competitive point of view I think that is one of our greatest strength.
We have a variety of platforms and technologies to deliver for the networking needs of our customers.
If you only have a dark fibers and everything that you sell looks like a dark fiber solution.
If you only have ITs and everything looks like an IT solution.
If you only have CDN everything looks like a CDN solution.
For Level 3 we have all of those things.
We have those -- that robust set of product where we can look at a customers traffic and pick not only the right platform for that customer but the right platform for some of that customers traffic may not be the right solution for all of it.
And so we can bring to those customers the variety of products and then after we've done that we can wrap around those capabilities our security services and our DDoS protection.
We can wrap around our managed services and professional services.
And so we think we are in a very competitive -- a good competitive position because of the strength of our product the breadth of our network the sophistication of our network and ultimately driven by our employees delivery of the great customer experience for our customers.
Well I think I dont have anything to add.
I think the biggest thing is given our network reach and the capillarity we have and the broad portfolio services we have is a big advantage for us.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Horan with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good quarter guys.
Jeff with your profitable growth focus arm and churning down to 1% are there any areas you think can you maybe actually start to raise prices now more than weve seen last couple of years? And then secondly on CapEx is there any shift in focus on CapEx? I know Verizon announced some SDN yesterday but maybe just broadly speaking areas where you maybe see where you are going to spend more in the future? Thanks.
Sure.
From a raising prices perspective we look at our pricing strategically whether its raising prices or lowering prices we look at each product we look at each geography we look at each customer segment and we try and match our pricing to the market and make sure that we are competitive in that market.
And so I can't give any specific products that we are planning on raising prices on.
But we do look at pricing as one of the levers that we have to drive profitable growth and we have done that in the past and will continue to do that in the future.
With respect to our CapEx strategy I think you mentioned SDN software define networking and network function virtualization NFV those are the things that are very real in the Level 3 network and we are investing in all of those things.
We believe very strongly that our customers want to be able to dynamically use certain networking capabilities on the fly.
If you look at the tw telecom constellation family of products and capabilities we are incorporating that dynamic bandwidth capacity in the go forward product that we have out for our customers.
That is whether you are inserting capacity on demand or your inserting our DDoS Scrubbing Network and our DDoS protection network on demand for customers traffic where you are inserting a network firewall.
Those are the types of SDN and NFV capabilities that we are building into our platform.
And its part of our CapEx program and has been part of our CapEx program.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Funk with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Yeah.
Tank you for taking the questions.
I have two quick ones here.
I appreciate the commentary about the direction of revenue growth the different business segments that you gave.
Maybe if you could synthesize that and help us think about the CNS run rate revenue growth towards the end of the year given those factors you talked about? And then second great job on the synergies on the EBITDA side you also guided for $40 million in CapEx savings when you announced the deal.
I found the review I guess how you got to that number whether or not that was just eliminating duplicative spending if that is would a zero-based budgeting approach.
Just wonder you get a better sense there? All right.
So on the CapEx side we look at how much both companies were spending with various kinds of suppliers whethers its transport gear race gear CDN gear IP.
And it was based upon on what we think we could get by just leveraging our bigger purchasing power.
So I think -- and I think weve mentioned this last call that essentially during the integration planning period and right after closing we had agreements with most of our suppliers to essentially lock in.
Weve got that synergies for the year.
And I think we sort of declare that on my last call that we essentially with the agreements we worked out with various suppliers who are generally hitting the CapEx synergies right in the first year over the course of this year.
On your other question on CNS revenue growth generally we expect the CNS revenues in total to be growing sequentially every quarter over the rest of the year.
And the reason we made our comments on a regional basis because North America is a little different as we said the underlying business.
We feel strong it has to be more to do with what happened last year in terms of the Starbucks and ramping up the Starbucks and the fellow contracts that we talked about.
But generally even in North America we should see decent sequential performance over the course of this year.
So I think overall as we progress through the year as Jeff said its a transition year.
And so I think the CNS revenue performance should be steady but were working on a lot of elements in terms of network platforms systems platforms a lot of change going on which we think will position us pretty well for next year.
Good.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of James Moorman with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Yes.
Thanks for taking my question.
First in terms of integration and what you just talked about with the network how is the integration I guess of the intelligent network constellation dynamic capacity is going in terms of having that for TWTC customers? And then also I know you talked about -- a lot about the sales integration.
So what about the other positions have you heard a lot from your competitors saying they are overseeing a lot of people coming? And thats expected from any mergers.
So would you say outside of sales again is a attrition just kind of your normal or are you seeing anything a little different to normal? Thanks.
Sure.
Ill take the second part first.
On the non-sales attrition I think were seeing anything outside of what we expected to see.
There is always a little bit of attrition as you combine two companies together.
There are pockets where we have to pay particular attention.
There is less to do with the combination of the companies and more to do with some big company opening an office right next door to our location and trying to attract people away.
So I think we are in pretty state.
There is natural reduction in force that you have as a result of integrating two companies.
And to the extent we can we would like to see that happen through attrition as opposed to downsizing.
And so were pretty comfortable with what we are seeing in sales and outside of sales.
With respect to the integrations of our intelligent networking capabilities I talk about building a platform for future and a platform that allows us to grow well into the future.
And thats part of it.
That is part of it because we have network elements that we now have our operational systems operational support systems directly interconnected in a sophisticated way not just a simple reporting mechanism but in ability to control those network elements.
And as we move towards SDN as we move toward providing faster services to our customers more seamless services to our customers those capabilities are critical.
And so it is a fundamental component of our platform strategy going forward.
And its the work that I mentioned in the comment that has now begun in earnest.
Youre looking at our platforms.
We have been looking at them.
We looked at our products.
We have them looking at our network infrastructure.
And how do we really tie all of those things together to provide a better customer experience with more sophisticated products than any of our competitors can do.
And so its absolutely important to us gentlemen and a key part of our strategy going forward.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Thank you.
I believe that was the last question.
But before we end the call I would like to leave you with three key takeaways.
First integration is progressing as expected and while there is a lot of work to do were very focused on continuing our solid execution.
Second were highly intense on driving improved performance in EMEA and are taking the steps we believe will improve our growth in the region.
Third the overall market for our products and services remain strong.
And we continued to make disciplined investments to drive profitable growth and improve free cash flow per share.
Again thank you for joining todays call and for your interest in Level 3.
Operator that concludes the call.
Thank you Jeff.
We would like to thank everyone for your participation and for using the Level 3 conferencing service today.
This does conclude the conference call.
And we ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Wednesday July 29 2015.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Valerie Finberg.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications second quarter 2015 earnings call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to draw your attention to the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at investors.level3.com.
On this site are the presentation materials that accompany this call the earnings press release and supplemental financial information.
Comparison to prior periods are being presented on a pro forma basis assuming that the acquisition of tw telecom took place on January 1 2014.
Revenue and sales comparisons to prior periods are provided on a year-over-year and constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement that is on page two of our 2Q 2015 earnings presentation.
The presentation and our remarks today contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results can be found in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As you can see from our expanding margins our second quarter results demonstrates the company's continued focus on profitable growth.
We also continue investing to position the company for the future initiatives to introduce new product capabilities expand our network reach and simplify our operating environment are all intended to drive long-term profitable growth.
With respect to our integration efforts solid execution and providing a differentiated customer experience remain the top priorities.
I'll provide details on our progress after Sunit reviews our financial results.
In addition while Sunit will cover revenue performance by regions I'll share an update on what we're seeing from a business perspective in both Latin America and EMEA.
With that I'll turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
We continue to execute on integration during the quarter and progressed nicely on synergies.
Adjusted EBITDA margins expanded to 32.3% in the second quarter of 2015 up from 29.4% on a pro forma basis in the second quarter of 2014.
Over the last quarter we continued to invest in product network and system capabilities to position the company for revenue growth.
Moving now to the second quarter highlights on slide three Core Network Services revenue for the second quarter of 2015 grew 5.4% year-over-year.
Enterprise CNS revenue excluding U.K.
Government grew 6.7%.
Including integration-related expenses adjusted EBITDA grew to $665 million.
The company generated free cash flow of $102 million.
Through our year-to-date refinancing activities we have reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $84 million and our leverage ratio is now at 4.1 times.
As of the end of the second quarter we've achieved $115 million in annualized run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies.
Turning to slide four CNS revenue grew 5.4% on a constant currency basis and 2.9% on an as-reported basis.
As we saw last quarter the difference in growth rate is due to the strong dollar compared to the year ago period.
Outside of the U.S.
dollar which represented 88% of CNS revenues as of the end of the second quarter our top three foreign currencies are the British pound at 5% the euro at 3% the Brazilian real at 3%.
On a revenue-weighted average basis those three currencies declined 16% against the dollar compared to the year-ago quarter and negatively affected our CNS revenue growth by approximately 2.5% this quarter.
On a regional basis North America's CNS revenue grew 6.7%.
At the beginning of the year we noted that we expected CNS revenue for North America to be a little softer and the 6.8% pro forma growth that we saw in the fourth quarter of 2014 due to the incremental growth last year from Starbucks and some large Federal contracts.
Our outlook for the year remains consistent with these expectations.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 7.1% during the quarter in line with our expectations.
Turning to Wholesale CNS revenue grew 5.8% this quarter.
In the quarter we settled some disputes that led to an unusually strong performance in Wholesale.
In the third quarter we expect Wholesale CNS revenue to decline slightly year-over-year.
For EMEA we said that we expected a smaller decline compared to the 2.2% decline we saw last year in the region.
For the first half of 2015 total CNS revenue for EMEA declined 1.8% on a constant currency basis.
During the second quarter 2015 CNS revenue declined 2.7% on a constant currency basis and 12% on an as-reported basis.
Enterprise CNS revenue excluding U.K.
Government grew 4.9% on a constant currency basis and declined 3.5% on an as-reported basis.
Wholesale CNS revenue declined 9.8% on a constant currency basis and 20% on an as-reported basis.
As we said previously we expect better performance from EMEA Wholesale this year and we did see slight improvement compared to the prior quarter decline of 11%.
U.K.
Government CNS revenue declined 11% on a constant currency basis and 19% on an as-reported basis.
In Latin America CNS revenue grew 5.7% on a constant currency basis and declined 7% on an as-reported basis.
At the beginning of the year we said we expect comparable performance to the 8.5% CNS revenue growth we saw in 2014.
For the year-to-date CNS revenue in the region grew 5.9% on a constant currency basis softer than we expected as macroeconomic and political issues persist.
We continue to see headwinds in this area.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 5.6% on a constant currency basis and declined 7.6% on an as-reported basis.
Wholesale CNS revenue grew 5.9% on a constant currency basis and declined 4.8% on an as-reported basis.
Let me briefly touch on Venezuela.
As we've been discussing we're monitoring the situation in Venezuela and the macro-environment has continued to worsen.
At the end of the second quarter at the SICAD 1 rate of VEF 12.8 to the $1 the company had a cash balance equivalent of approximately $80 million.
The June 30 2015 SIMADI exchange rate was VEF 197.3 to the $1 but we're still transacting the majority of our business at the SICAD 1 rate.
Our revenue in Venezuela in the second quarter was $24 million.
At the bottom of slide four CNS revenue churn remained low at 1% during the quarter.
On slide five Wholesale Voice Services and Other revenue or WVS declined 17% to $120 million in the second quarter of 2015.
We expect continued double-digit rates of decline in WVS revenue.
Turning to slide six and revenue results by product group.
We have provided growth rates both on an as-reported basis and constant currency basis.
My remarks reference the growth rates on a constant currency basis.
IP and Data Services which grew 8.1% continue to drive the company's growth led by growth in VPN services and managed and converged services.
Within IP and Data Services CDN declined year-over-year.
We do expect CDN performance to improve for the balance of the year given the increase investment I referenced last quarter and from the interconnection agreements we signed this past quarter which should relieve peering congestion.
Transport and Fiber grew 3%.
And within that group dark fiber grew 5.7%.
Voice Services grew 7.1% as a result of the North America Wholesale settlement I mentioned earlier.
Colocation and Data Services declined 0.2%.
Turning to pricing we continue to see a little change in the overall pricing environment.
As a company we spend a fair amount of time analyzing pricing dynamics.
We take a market-based approach to pricing looking at particular geographies products verticals and other factors.
This has become an institutional capability for us as a part of our focus on profitable growth.
Turning to slide seven.
Network access margin expanded to 66.2% compared to 64.3% in the second quarter of 2014.
The improvement in network access margin was driven in part by the high-margin settlement revenue I noted earlier and by integration-related network synergies.
Continued CNS growth and WVS revenue declines also contributed to the improvement.
Network related expenses excluding non-cash compensation was $359 million for the second quarter of 2015 compared to $357 million for the second quarter of 2014.
SG&amp;A excluding non-cash compensation and integration-related expenses for the second quarter of 2015 was $336 million.
This compares to $344 million for the second quarter of 2014.
Year-over-year the reductions in SG&amp;A have been driven by synergies.
Turning to slide eight adjusted EBITDA including integration-related expenses was $665 million for the second quarter of 2015.
Excluding integration-related expenses of $5 million adjusted EBITDA was $670 million.
This compares to $597 million for the second quarter of 2014 or $605 million excluding $8 million in transaction and integration cost that quarter.
The improvement in adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by good progress in capturing operating expense synergies.
Adjusted EBITDA margin including integration-related expenses improved to 32.3% compared to 29.4% for the second quarter 2014.
We feel good about our ability to continue expanding adjusted EBITDA margins as we recognized synergies further optimize our cost structure and add high margin CNS revenues.
Moving to synergies since the acquisition closed we've achieved approximately $115 million of annualized run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies with $25 million on network access cost synergies and $90 million on operating expense synergies.
The focus going forward is around NetEx synergies which take a little longer to achieve compared to OpEx synergies.
We continue to remain confident about our ability to achieve 70% or $140 million of our synergy targets by the end of the first quarter of 2016.
On slide nine capital expenditures were $317 million in the second quarter of 2015 and are 14% of total revenue year-to-date.
We continue to expect CapEx of 15% of total revenue for the full year 2015.
The company generated free cash flow of $102 million in the quarter.
As a result of the capital markets transactions completed during the quarter our cash interest expense in the second quarter was a little higher than usual.
Given our cash interest expense guidance of $640 million for 2015 we expect quarterly cash interest expense of about $160 million.
In the second quarter as a result of the refinancings cash interest expense was $219 million.
Year-to-date our cash interest expense is $365 million.
As of June 30 2015 the company had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $549 million.
Turning to slide 10 we exited the quarter with our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at 4.1 times; this compares to 4.2 times at the end of last quarter.
We remain focused on getting to the low-end of our target leverage range of three times to five times which we expect to be driven by growth in adjusted EBITDA.
Our average interest rate on our debt is now 5.1% compared to 5.3% in the first quarter of 2015 and 6.8% for Level 3 standalone in the second quarter of 2014.
Turning to business outlook on slide 11.
We remain confident in our performance for the remainder of the year.
We are reiterating our outlook we provided last quarter with 2015 adjusted EBITDA growth of 14% to 17% from a starting point of $2.271 billion pro forma for the tw telecom acquisition and including integration expenses.
We also expect to generate free cash flow of $600 million to $650 million for the full year 2015.
Given the capital markets activity in the quarter we are lowering our interest expense outlook for the full year 2015 and now expect GAAP interest expense of approximately $650 million and net cash interest expense of approximately $640 million compared to our prior outlook of $660 million and $645 million respectively.
All other outlook measures remain unchanged.
As we look to the third quarter of 2015 we expect to see a typical increase in utility costs generally in the high-single-digit millions of dollars as a result of the higher summer cooling requirement in our datacenters.
Also we won't see the benefit of the second quarter dispute settlement that we saw in North America also in the third quarter.
In summary we are pleased with our progress on adjusted EBITDA growth and the continued margin expansion we have been able to achieve.
For the second half of the year we remain focused on integration and continue to recognize additional synergies.
We are continuing to invest in the business both to drive profitable revenue growth and optimize costs.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Sunit.
As I said at the beginning of the year we look at 2015 as a transition year.
The successful integration of our company remains our top priority.
In the past many of you may have heard me talk about the notion of one that is so integral to our approach; combining and simplifying our product capabilities to create one portfolio of products regardless of geography standardizing our network technologies and architectures to create one comprehensive global network and selecting and integrating our operational support systems to provide one operating environment for our employees and customers around the world.
Each of these are key integration initiatives.
On our first quarter earnings call I noted that there had been no major surprises as part of the integration process I'm pleased to say this remains true for the second quarter as well.
Last quarter I updated you on the various initiatives to integrate two sales teams of roughly equivalent size in North America.
Account moves and organizational realignments CRM and other systems migrations as well as restructuring of the compensation plans are a few of the changes that impacted our sales team during the first few months of the year.
For the past 90 days we've not introduced any significant changes for the sales organization while unwanted sales force attrition has ticked up slightly we're paying very close attention to it.
Having said that attrition is still within our expectations.
We remain focused on maintaining the sales momentum the two companies experienced prior to close.
In the second quarter CNS sales increased slightly both sequentially and year-over-year on a pro forma basis.
As you've heard me say before we're pleased but not satisfied.
I believe we can do more to make it easier for the sales force to cross-sell up-sell and improve overall productivity.
I've been asked questions before about the competitiveness of our new combined offering and whether we can win more business than either of the previous companies could as standalone entities.
I thought I would share one example.
A recent deal with a company that is an intermediary for the information exchange between health plans and providers they help to ease the complexity of moving business and clinical information to healthcare stakeholders nationwide.
As a customer of both Level 3 and tw telecom the company came to us with the need for an updated solution across their network.
Their current solution included circuits from Level 3 tw telecom as well as other carriers.
As a result of Level 3's now broader product portfolio and larger on-net footprint we updated their full branch network into a single carrier solution with higher throughput speeds on-net colocation and 100% physical diversity.
This new solution is helping our customer keep pace with ever-changing regulatory and technology requirements.
As we continue the integration of our products networks and systems we're laying the foundation for initiatives that are key to driving future profitable growth making it easier for customers to do business with Level 3 while also optimizing our cost structure creates more compelling offers in the market.
As example we've completed the integration of all core security services to our in-state products and platforms.
We're continuing to add capabilities to our managed security portfolio.
Just after the close of the quarter we announced that we are strengthening our capabilities in this area with the acquisition of Black Lotus.
While not financially material the acquisition brings important proxy-based DDoS mitigation services along with additional scrubbing centers and talented security professionals to the Level 3 team.
We standardized on a single Ethernet platform and by platform I mean the production definitions the network to deploy those products and the systems to support them.
We've completed our rollout of the new Ethernet platform in North America and expect to complete the rollout in EMEA by the end of the year and Latin America in 2016.
As one of the largest SDN deployments in our industry these unified global capabilities will provide a differentiated experience for our customers in doing business in multiple locations as well as streamline Level 3 operations.
We're investing to add CDN capacity around the world to meet growing demand in supported video and other content distributed online.
We work diligently with industry partners to redefine interconnection and ensure access to an open Internet for all of our customers.
I'd like to spend a couple of minutes sharing my perspectives on our LatAm and EMEA businesses.
I spend a lot of time travelling in each of our three regions meeting with management employees and customers.
As I mentioned on our last call I was in Latin America in March.
While Sunit described the continued pressure we see from the economic and political environment in the region we are still growing the business and I believe we are well positioned to achieve stronger growth when the regional economic conditions improve.
I returned last week from EMEA.
I believe we're making progress in our efforts to return EMEA to growth.
As you may have seen from the announcement yesterday Andrew Crouch has now filled out his management team and we've hired key executives in sales marketing and strategy supplementing our already strong leaders in operations finance human resources and legal.
While we continue to take advantage of our Pan-European footprint the top priorities for the team are to improve sales discipline enhance customer targeting and drive more on-net buildings and network expansions in four territories within EMEA the U.K.
France Germany and Benelux.
We clearly have a lot of work ahead of us but I believe we're taking the right steps to grow our market share and provide for long-term growth in this large market.
Across the globe CIOs are asked to help their companies grow manage increasingly complex and demanding user needs protect their companies data and network capabilities in an escalating and hostile environment while at the same time reducing their overall cost to operate whether using our sophisticated security services to protect their enterprise or coupling Level 3 Ethernet services with their internal SDN capabilities or using IP VPNs to tie together their offices around the world our customers continue to transition to the flexible scalable IP and optical services we provide to meet their evolving needs.
At this point I'd like to open it up to your questions.
Operator would you explain the process? Thank you.
One moment please for the first question.
Our first question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Good morning and thanks for all the detail Jeff on the EMEA and Latin America.
I think on North America perhaps you can just give a little bit more color about sort of overall Enterprise trends we saw the Bell's numbers a little bit soft there but you clearly mentioned pricing was stable what's going on in terms of overall booking trends and sort of Enterprise health in terms of ordering? And then Sunit could you just provide a little bit more color around the dispute recognition is it $10 million $15 million is that sort of the size we're looking at? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Let me  I'll go ahead and start with the  what we're seeing in the Enterprise market in North America.
We see a good strong market for the products and services that we sell.
We see a continuing transition to IP and optical services as customers are trying to deal with all the complexities that I mentioned CIOs looking at whether it's mobility or cloud computing more online content all of those types of things are driving the products and services we sell.
If you compare  I mentioned the sales in the first quarter  excuse me  in the second quarter of this year compared to the second quarter of last year we are  our sales are slightly up compared to last year.
So we're continuing the momentum that the two companies saw individually from a sales perspective.
Great.
And Simon to your question on the settlement yeah it's in the range it's roughly about $10 million of benefit compared to last quarter.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi guys thanks.
EMEA and LatAm growth on a constant currency basis seems to have weakened a bit in the quarter.
Can you give us a little color on that and does the previous growth guidance for the second still apply? Thanks.
Yeah.
So I think in EMEA as we said yes the  we've said at the beginning of the year they declined 2.2% and we expect to do a little better than that kind of decline this year.
So so far they're holding in.
And then LatAm is a little weaker as we mentioned given the changes you've seen in the commodity markets oil prices metals and the overall political and macroeconomic situation there.
We have seen the growth has been a little lower than we thought and we'll see how it goes for the rest of the year.
So we've seen a little more weakness in LatAm.
Okay thank you.
EMEA is performing as we outlined and as we've been saying the last couple of years  last couple of quarters I'm sorry.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen &amp; Co.
Please proceed.
Great.
So I wanted to go back to North America.
So you mentioned in response I guess to Simon's question that sales were up on a year-over-year basis.
I was wondering if you could talk about what the trend was quarter-over-quarter.
And I guess that was the one area at least in our model where we saw weakness relative to expectation.
Curious if that's simply the result of that sales force integration in the first quarter in that book to bill and how that impacted the second quarter and if the sales are starting to improve if we could start to see improvement in the back half of this year? And then my second question is on EBITDA.
If you simply annualize the EBITDA that you just recorded in the second quarter you'd effectively be at 17% year-over-year which would be at the high-end of your guidance.
Is that meant to imply that we could be seeing flat EBITDA or even down EBITDA in the back half of the year or you simply being conservative with your guidance? Thanks.
So going through your questions.
So  I assume you're talking about sales not revenues so our sales bookings were up sequentially and year-over-year.
As far as the revenues goes as we have been saying for two quarters now that we're going to see a little softer performance over the balance of the year in North America because of the Starbucks and the Federal contracts the Starbucks revenue is ramping up this last year and some into the beginning of this year and then we had some Federal contracts that peeled off that we talked about.
So the performance is in line with respect to North America Enterprise is in line with what we've talked about and so we're just seeing that.
There is nothing that has changed fundamentally.
I think the sales momentum is pretty good given the size of the combination the two companies coming together bringing them together in North America and installing tools (27:07) are holding up as you'd expect for the kind of products and services we're selling.
So the revenue performance again we've been saying this for two quarters and you're just seeing that play out we'll see that play out for the rest of the years as we've talked about previously.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I'll just reiterate what Sunit said.
Our revenue sales  our sales continue to improve sequentially and year-over-year and given the number of changes that I mentioned that we did in the first quarter we're pretty pleased with that.
Now we're never satisfied.
We'll continue to focus on driving better sales performance but it is a transition year we've made massive changes in the first quarter to our sales organization our product portfolio all of the things that come with putting two large companies together.
And on a year-over-year basis our second quarter sales results were better.
So we're overall pleased but again not satisfied with where we are yet.
And I guess on EBITDA? Yeah.
So on EBITDA I mean as we said we got benefit from the settlement we won't see that next quarter.
We also have utility costs going up in the third quarter as has been the case since I've been at Level 3.
So I think that we continue to feel comfortable with the guidance that we outlined last quarter.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
So just to clarify that the sales were improving year-over-year is that going to translate into sort of revenue trends improving year-over-year? And then on the Wholesale side are you all picking up share? Most of the other carriers appear to be losing revenue and you appear to be gaining and are the margins incrementally better there on the Wholesale now? So I'll take the second question first which is on the Wholesale side.
I think you heard us say for quite a number of years that in general for a longer period of time we expect Wholesale to be flat to slightly down.
And now we've been benefited last couple of quarters at least in North America with some settlements particularly this last quarter.
Our LatAm business is doing well because they're geared more towards consumer media and some of their wholesale customers.
So I don't think anything has changed that for us.
For us the business continues to be a good  profitable business for us.
The margins in our Wholesale business are comparable to our Enterprise business so we're happy the profitability.
In terms of the trends for the balance of the year I mean I think that there are two ways I'd look at it one is with respect to our overall Enterprise revenue.
We do expect better sequential comparisons for the balance of the year and we expect that the year-over-year Enterprise trends will be consistent with what we've seen this quarter overall specifically with respect to North America I think we'll see on the margin a slight improvement but consistent with what we reported this quarter.
So in answer to your question yeah I mean the sales bookings should continue to benefit us.
The year-over-year comparisons can get a little clouded by one-time things we had last year.
As I mentioned Starbucks and the Federal contracts which is why I mentioned the sequential point.
So I think overall given the size of the acquisition we did and all the changes we have going on we're pretty  we think performance is holding up as we expected in North America.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Goldman with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Thanks and good morning everybody.
I guess just one clarification on Phil's question earlier on Latin America.
Jeff you highlighted a little bit in your comments and Sunit talked a bit about the weakening macro there but I just want to confirm that you still felt comfortable with the guidance that you have for Latin America particularly assuming that there is no sort of inflection to the better  on the macro in the back half of the year if you're still comfortable there? And then I guess secondly just the typical quarterly question around M&amp;A Jeff.
I know you've obviously focused a lot on integration I think you've made a lot of progress on the sales force still have some work to go.
But as you start to think about inorganic opportunities particularly with your leverage here at 4.1 times and likely declining given EBITDA growth what you're seeing out in the marketplace and what your appetite is perhaps you do something outside of North America? I'll cover the LatAm question first.
So I think again as I said we've seen a little softer performance than we expect it first half of the year.
As we look at the balance of the year overall in LatAm we think we'll see stronger performance on the Enterprise side and generally better performance in second half of the year.
I think third quarter might be comparable to what we saw in the second quarter it should pick up in the fourth quarter.
So overall running maybe a 1% or so softer than what we outlined at the beginning of the year.
Now obviously we'll know more with every passing quarter but that's what we currently believe.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Scott with respect to M&amp;A we're an acquisitive company and as part of our strategy to continue to acquire we announced the Black Lotus transaction.
Again that one is very small but it brought a capability that we wanted to have in our product portfolio and the capability we want to have on our team.
So we'll continue to look at M&amp;A from a variety of different approaches.
We believe in Europe and Latin America we want to continue to grow scale.
And so those are  so those are some drivers to look at things internationally.
Having said that our focus is on integrating tw telecom and Level 3 and we're going to make sure that that's the highest priority that we have as a business that we integrated effectively.
It has global ramifications as we standardized our product set as we standardized our network and as we standardized our system across the globe.
And we want to continue to drive that capability and take advantage of the acquisition we did with tw telecom.
And so that remains our primary focus but we are an acquiring company acquisitive company and we'll continue to look at opportunities to add scale or capabilities that we need regardless of the region.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Funk with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Yeah.
Hey guys thank you for taking the questions.
I guess just back on the North American Wholesale so if you strip out the settlement this quarter it implies about I guess $440 million ex-that your commentary suggests maybe more pressure off the quarter more sequential pressure.
So how much of that is due to Wholesale carrier grooming maybe versus other factors in there? Well I mean I think again consolidation has been the theme in the Wholesale business for a long time so which is why we've always said longer term we expect Wholesale to be flat to down generally.
And I think (35:03) what we see in the quarter is consistent with that.
Now in any given quarter you might have some things moving around but when I look at things on an overall year-over-year basis I think it's consistent with that.
Having said that I think we still expect Wholesale to be growing year-over-year given some of the benefits we've had.
And then a quick follow up if I could...
(35:28) North America and overall.
Okay.
And then on the free cash flow guidance for the year I'm just curious what kind of typical help you would get in the second half of the year from working capital? Yeah.
So we have  in the first half of the year we have our annual bonus payments that happened in the first half of the year.
We have a lot of prepaid payments for maintenance software that happened at the beginning of the year so we see a fair bit of benefit of reversal from that.
And given our interest expense guidance obviously the first half is running higher than what you'd expect from a full year basis.
So we feel very very confident about the free cash flow guidance.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi Investment Research.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah thanks for taking the questions.
I guess the first question for me would be if you could break out a bit more of the capital spending between growth and maintenance both for the second quarter how you think about the guidance for 2015? And then just secondly if you talk a little bit more about what would be a realistic opportunity for sales productivity within your company to improve sales over the next 12 months to 24 months how are you thinking about the opportunities for improvement there? Thank you.
Sure.
So I think with respect to capital expenditures most of the capital we spend is success-based capital.
We have some level of maintenance CapEx probably in the $300 million or so range a little more but most of the other goes towards driving new revenue growth.
This year in particular as we said at the beginning of the year we had about  we expected about $70 million in integration CapEx.
So that's the only one difference this year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> With respect to sales productivity we don't give out specific numbers on productivity.
But if you look at the market customers want the products and services that Level 3 sell.
The need to transition to those products and services is accelerating in the market and we expect that to continue over the next few years.
If you look at the challenges that our sales force has put two together we need to bring up the average productivity for the overall sales organization.
We continue to move up market in parts of our company to make sure that we're selling to sweet spot customers for Level 3 the customers that need global services the customers that really rely on their network as a fundamental component of their ability to win in their markets.
Those are the types of customers we do the best with and those are the types of customers that we continue to target and execute with.
So we expect that as a lot of the changes that we've implemented through the integration process get behind us we expect productivity continue to improve.
Yeah.
And we saw that in the Global Crossing situation after we went through a period of integration we saw very nice increase in productivity.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Just first a quick housekeeping question.
Your merger integration expenses were a little lighter than what we had expected for the quarter is that because you're actually getting the integration done at a lower cost or is it timing? And then just I want to expand on some of the comments you made about being an inquisitive company you cited a couple of your growth regions as areas where you'd want to get more scale.
Could you maybe define that a little bit when you say you want more scale? Does that mean you would like to have more assets similar to type of the assets you have in that region or are you actually thinking there are new asset classes maybe datacenters or some other type of category you should spend more time bolstering up your scale? Thanks.
I'll get the integration expense question.
So I think it's both.
I think though it's been a little cheaper than we thought.
But in addition it's also timing.
Now we're going through some of the tougher systems integration over the balance of this year some into next year.
And so we'll have more to talk about it in the rest of the year.
But so far yeah you're right the expenses have been running lower than what we thought at the beginning of the year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> With respect to the asset classes and the scale if you look in EMEA we have a very extensive Pan-European network; we have great long-haul capabilities.
In the U.K.
we have very strong domestic fiber infrastructure.
In the other three markets where I mentioned France Germany and Benelux we want to continue to drive better domestic infrastructure in each of those markets making sure that we build to our customers that we have fiber connectivity to our customers and the pools of demand that exist within each of those territories.
And so we'll continue to focus on that.
Asset classes datacenter versus non-datacenter those types of things.
Our strategy varies a little bit market-by-market.
If you look in Latin America datacenters are more part of our key strategy our fundamental strategy in that market.
We invest organically in all of those different asset classes as well as inorganic.
And so I think it's just  we will continue our strategy in each of those markets investing organically to drive our scale to drive better network facilities better network utilization.
And then when we look at inorganic activities it'd be some of the same types of things.
All right great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of James Moorman with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Yeah.
Thanks for taking the question.
First in terms of North America I know you've said with  you expect the softness due to Starbucks but in the past I think you've mentioned that you could expect with Verizon and AT&amp;T spending so much time on wireless that you might see  have a competitive advantage over them.
Is that kind of built into what you're expecting a little softness with Starbucks is that something could potentially surprise? And then also in terms of cross-selling is that kind of something you don't expect until 2016 or is it something we could start to see early? Thanks.
Yeah.
So with respect to Verizon and T I mean they reported last week and you've seen mid- to high-single-digit percent declines in the Enterprise and Wholesale businesses respectively.
And we think over time that will continue to benefit us as they put in more and more capital towards wireless and consumer.
And so over time it should benefit us.
I think that if you look at our Enterprise performance in comparison to them for the last handful of years it shows this gap since we are uniquely focused on the wireline enterprise business whereas they are being increasingly dragged more and more into wireless: in the case of AT&amp;T consumer entertainment and wireless in Mexico.
So it should benefit us as it has over time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In cross-selling and up-selling that's a fundamental part of our strategy.
We go in and win a little bit of business from a customer do an excellent job and then over time drag more and more success through that customer.
And so we are continuing to focus on that not just as a part of the tw telecom acquisition but as a part of our core approach to how we sell customers.
And it includes cross-selling and up-selling against infrastructure.
So how do we get to drive better penetration in buildings that are on-net? How do we continue to more efficiently and effectively utilize the infrastructure that we have in place? So it's absolutely a key part of our strategy a key part of our efforts to improve within the sales channel.
Great.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Del Deo with MoffettNathanson.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
First drilling down a bit into the product categories it looks like Transport and Fiber and Colocation and Datacenters most of the other (44:04) constant currency growth rates ticked down pretty meaningfully versus last quarter.
I assume that Starbucks would have been more in the IP and Data category.
Were there any specific drivers there or things we should be cognizant of when assessing those growth rates? And second Jeff with respect to your expectations that you can do better in terms of your ability to bolster sales growth what are some of the factors you're targeting to get up to the levels you think you can achieve? Yeah.
So in general on the product category I think that with respect to datacenters we saw weakness in EMEA that we had expected from large Wholesale type customers that disconnected.
Latin America saw a little bit weakness with what I talked about.
I think North America the business actually grew a little.
With respect to IP and Data Services (44:51) in general revenues were up quite nicely we did get impacted as I mentioned by Starbucks and Fed as we've been talking about for the last two quarters now.
So it happened as we expected.
Within Transport and Fiber as I mentioned Fiber grew strongly within Transport we saw growth in wavelengths with some decline in private line but again consistent with what we had outlined.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> With respect to some of the initiatives in areas of focus for driving better sales and better productivity when you bring two telecom companies together for  at the beginning you're just selling what you were selling before to who you were selling it to before.
We have a better footprint we have a better product portfolio but we've got to migrate those things together.
And so we're focused very hard on making sure our product definitions of the products are uniform and so that you can sell our Ethernet service regardless of the building; regardless of the geography meaning Europe or North America you can sell a standard Ethernet product to your customer.
We've also enhanced the capacities making sure that the SDN capabilities that we've built into our Ethernet product are available to our customers and that they understand how to utilize that within their infrastructure to take advantage of those capabilities.
And so it starts with the product definitions.
It also has to include though making sure that we have integrated the networks in the way that I talked about  and again I'll use the Ethernet example but the way we've talked about with Ethernet building the platform so that across North America now our customers that they order new Ethernet services from us they go across one system they go across one network and they have one product definition regardless of where you're buying it.
And we're deploying that as we speak in EMEA and we'll follow up in the early parts of 2016 beginning deploying that in Latin America.
And so the product definitions the infrastructure the support systems all of those things are critical to drive better performance.
We've already done a lot of things that we needed to do from a sales organization.
We've consolidated the customer relationship management system so we have one view of the customers.
We've standardized our funneling process and we've standardized our compensation.
And so we've already started many of those activities and are starting to see the sales organization settle down into the new structure that we have and the new approach that we have.
And then we also have to continue to move some of our lower-end sales reps up-market and selling more to our sweet spot customers.
So customer targeting and making sure we're effectively using our sales force time are other areas that we're really focused on.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Horan with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey guys.
On the notion of one is this really incorporated with the integration of the tw telecom or are you spending more on the notion of one and will it take a little bit longer and are you still waiting for that to be completed for further acquisitions? And then just on the CDN on the acceleration growth is this from the new customers or just having more capacity on the network? And are you seeing any shift in pricing in CDN because I think ADBS from what we're hearing has been a little bit more aggressive lately? Thank you Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> With respect to one.
There is a fundamental belief and the way that the tw telecom systems were built around the same concept of a single set of systems controlling a single network with a single product definition and so certainly we're incorporating that in our go-forward approach.
But what we've tried to do is take the best of both companies and bring them together in a way that our systems support our overall strategy.
So looking at CRM we chose the Salesforce.com implementation.
There will be different components from Level 3 different components from tw telecom as we implement our operational support systems going forward.
But all with the philosophy of we want to have a single product portfolio globally that we can deliver to our customers we want to have infrastructure network components in place that are consistent across the globe to deliver that product and service but that can be controlled in an automated fashion by our high layer operational support systems to build-in SDN capabilities going forward to build-in the flexibility and the ease of control that we've talked about and to simplify our operating environment for our employees and simplify the operating environment for our customers as well.
So that's the notion of one.
It's part of our overall integration strategy.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So can we see more synergies from the notion of one than you've got it to from the merger when we incorporate everything? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Over time we expect the platform that we've built to be far more efficient than the ones that we have in place today.
And so we expect to be able to continue to grow and serve our customers in a very efficient way that it will create more compelling offers in the marketplace.
You know we continue to progress on that.
A couple of quick examples this quarter and third quarter will be on one set of financial systems worldwide which means that we have basically integrated the tw telecom financial systems to the Level 3 financial systems.
Similarly in North America again one billing platform by the end of the year.
So as these progress you do get efficiencies over time.
With respect to your CDN question yeah the situation that we faced at the beginning of this year was not having enough capacity on our network which takes a couple of quarters to put in.
And the second issue we faced was congestion on peering links.
And you saw we made quite a bit of progress in the second quarter signing interconnection agreements with a number of carriers.
So the combination of both of those things we think will lead to much better performance from existing customers.
And having said that as Jeff pointed out earlier with a wider enterprise base that we have in general over time we think we can do a better job of cross-selling into that but obviously that will take a little bit of time.
But for the balance of the year we see a lot of it coming from just existing customers.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Any change in the CDN pricing out there? Not really pricing trends have been consistent.
It's a profitable line of business.
We like the margins.
So I think pricing has been okay.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Tim.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> I think that's the last of our questions.
So in closing I'd like to end with a few highlights.
Our results this quarter are in line with expectations and we continue to focus on profitable growth expanding our margins and generating free cash flow.
We're pleased with the progress we've made around integration and have confidence in our roadmap going forward.
With our operating leverage continued focus on synergies and ongoing cost optimization from a variety of simplification initiatives we have excellent momentum in growing free cash flow and we are focused on increasing free cash flow per share.
We believe we're making the right investments to position the company for future growth.
The market needs the products and services Level 3 provides and we believe the transition to these services continues to accelerate.
As always thank you for joining today's all and for your support of Level 3.
Operator that concludes the call.
Thank you Jeff.
We would like to thank everyone for your participation and for using the Level 3 Conferencing Service today.
This does conclude the conference call and we ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Well ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During this presentation all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded on Wednesday October 28 2015.
It's now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Valerie Finberg VP-Investor Relations at Level 3.
Please proceed.
Thank you Pam.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications third quarter 2015 earnings call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to draw your attention to the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website at investors.level3.com.
On this site are the presentation materials that accompany this call the earnings press release and supplemental financial information.
Detailed revenue and adjusted EBITDA results for Venezuela operations for the last four quarters are provided in the supplemental schedule.
Comparisons to prior periods are being presented on a pro forma basis assuming that the acquisition of tw telecom took place on January 1 2014.
Revenue and sales comparisons to prior periods are provided on a year-over-year and constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement that begins on page 2 of our 3Q 2015 earnings presentation.
The presentation and remarks contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements.
A discussion of factors that may affect future results can be found in Level 3's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation.
With that I'll turn it over to Jeff.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With the one-year mark of the tw telecom acquisition approaching it's been an exciting and productive year for Level 3.
We've made steady progress around integration and have moved closer toward our vision of one: one portfolio of products one integrated network and one set of operational support systems.
Following our normal approach Sunit will provide an update on our detailed results I'll provide commentary on what we see in the market and then we will open up the call for your questions.
With that I'll turn it over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to say we delivered a solid quarter of financial performance and continue to make progress from an integration and synergy perspective.
I'd like to start with some of the highlights for the quarter which can be found on slide 3 of our presentation.
Core Network Services revenue for the third quarter 2015 grew 5.5%.
Enterprise CNS revenue excluding UK Government grew 8.5%.
North America CNS Enterprise revenue grew 8.3% year-over-year and 2.6% on a sequential basis.
Excluding integration-related expenses adjusted EBITDA grew to $675 million and was $657 million including those expenses.
The company generated strong free cash flow of $247 million.
At the end of the third quarter we achieved $170 million of annualized run-rate adjusted EBITDA synergies.
I would also like to mention that earlier today in our earnings release we announced an accounting change in Latin America.
Effective September 30 2015 the company is deconsolidating its Venezuelan subsidiary from future financial results.
I'll give more detail regarding Venezuela in a moment.
Additionally based on our year-to-date performance even with Venezuela excluded from our fourth quarter results and the higher integration expenses this quarter and currency headwinds in Brazil we now expect full-year adjusted EBITDA growth of 15% to 17% compared to our previous outlook of 14% to 17% and continue to expect free cash flow of $600 million $650 million.
Turning to slide 4 CNS revenue grew 5.5% on a constant currency basis and 2.6% on an as-reported basis.
As we've seen in previous quarters this year the difference in constant currency and as-reported growth rates can be attributed to the strength of the dollar compared to the year-ago period.
Outside of the U.S.
dollar which represented 89% of CNS revenue as of the end of the third quarter the British pound represented 5% the euro 3% and the Brazilian real 2%.
All other currencies are included in the remaining 1%.
On a revenue-weighted average basis the three largest currencies outside of the U.S.
dollar declined 17% against the dollar compared to the year-ago quarter and negatively affected our CNS revenue growth rate by approximately 2.8% this quarter.
Additionally in the third quarter we saw the Brazilian real weaken 13% against the dollar compared to average rates in the second quarter 2015.
On a regional basis North America CNS revenue grew 5.6%.
From an enterprise perspective we had a particularly strong third quarter with revenue growing 8.3% year-over-year and 2.7% on a sequential basis.
We saw particular strength in professional services from the federal segment that tends to be lumpy in nature.
Also CNS revenue declined 1.5% year-over-year in line with our expectations.
In EMEA CNS revenue increased 2.2% on a constant currency basis and declined 4.5% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise CNS revenue excluding UK government grew 8.3% on a constant currency basis and 2.6% on an as-reported basis.
The sequential performance this quarter was driven by increases in CDN professional services revenue and dispute settlements.
Also CNS revenue declined 5.7% on a constant currency basis and 14% on an as-reported basis in line with our expectations.
UK government CNS revenue saw a slight increase of 0.4% on a constant currency basis and a decline of 7.1% on an as-reported basis.
Despite this quarter's increase we still expect double digit percentage declines in UK government revenue on a year-over-year basis.
In Latin America CNS revenue grew 9.1% on a constant currency basis and declined 9.0% on an as-reported basis.
The sequential and year-over-year growth in Latin America this quarter was primarily due to increases in co-location and data center as well as IP and data revenue.
Enterprise revenue grew 8.8% on a constant currency basis and declined 10% on an as-reported basis.
Also CNS revenue grew 10% on a constant currency basis and declined 4.9% on an as-reported basis.
I'd like to take a moment to summarize the accounting changes we announced in this morning's earnings release.
As we've been discussing for the past several quarters the macro environment in Venezuela continues to worsen and we believe significant uncertainty exists regarding the exchange mechanisms in Venezuela.
These evolving conditions have resulted in a lack of exchangeability between the Venezuelan bolivar and U.S.
dollar and the inability to repatriate earnings from Venezuela back to the U.S.
As a result effective September 30 2015 the company decided to deconsolidate its Venezuelan subsidiary from its consolidated financial statements.
Going forward Level 3's reported financial results will not include revenue adjusted EBITDA and cash flow from Venezuela.
Additionally as we noted in our press release earlier today this deconsolidation resulted in a one-time charge of $171 million.
We remain committed to our operations employees and customers in Venezuela and we will continue to provide communication services there.
Moving on to slide 5 Wholesale Voice Services and Other Revenue or WVS declined 19% to $116 million in the third quarter of 2015.
We expect continued double-digit rates of decline in WVS revenue.
Turning to slide 6 and revenue results by product group we have provided growth rates on both on an as-reported basis and constant currency basis.
My remarks reference the growth rates on a constant currency basis.
IP and Data Services which grew 9% continue to drive the company's growth led by growth in VPN Services and Internet access for enterprises.
Within IP and Data Services CDN declined year-over-year but grew 5.9% on a sequential basis.
Transport and Fiber grew 3.8% and within that group dark fiber grew 6.4%.
Colocation and Datacenter Services grew 2.1% and Voice Services grew 0.6%.
Consistent with previous quarters we continue to see little change in the overall pricing environment.
Each quarter we analyze pricing dynamics and take a market-based approach to pricing our solutions looking at particular geographies products verticals and other factors.
Turning to slide 7.
Network access cost was $706 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to $717 million on a pro forma basis in the third quarter of 2014.
Network access margin expanded to 65.8% compared to 64.8% on a pro forma basis in the third quarter of 2014.
For the third quarter 2015 excluding non-cash compensation expense and integration-related expenses network-related expenses were $356 million.
This compared to $365 million on a pro forma basis for the third quarter of 2014.
SG&amp;A excluding non-cash compensation expense and integration-related expenses for the third quarter of 2015 was $325 million.
This compares to $336 million for the third quarter of 2014.
We also saw utility costs increase sequentially this quarter in the mid-single digit millions of dollars lower than usual given the relatively cooler summer.
Turning to slide 8.
Adjusted EBITDA including integration-related expenses was $657 million for the third quarter 2015.
Excluding $18 million of integration-related expenses adjusted EBITDA was $675 million.
This compares to $670 million for the second quarter 2015 or $665 million including $5 million in integration costs and compares to $620 million for the third quarter of 2014 or $612 million including $8 million in transaction and integration costs that quarter.
The integration-related expenses this quarter of $18 million split into $8 million of network-related expenses and $10 million of SG&amp;A.
Integration-related expenses this quarter were higher compared to the $5 million per quarter in the first half of the year due to an increase in head count-related integration expenses.
We expect that integration-related expenses in the fourth quarter will return to a run rate similar to what we saw in the first half this year.
Adjusted EBITDA margin including integration-related expenses improved to 31.9% compared to 30.0% for the third quarter 2014.
Excluding integration-related expenses adjusted EBITDA margin was 32.7% compared to 30.4% for the third quarter of 2014.
Moving to synergies.
At the end of the third quarter we have achieved $170 million of run-rate savings.
We are running ahead of schedule in terms of reaching our 18-month target of $140 million by the end of the first quarter of 2016.
We remain confident in hitting our overall synergy target of $200 million.
On slide 9 capital expenditures were $328 million in the third quarter 2015 and are 15% of total revenue year-to-date.
We continue to expect CapEx of 15% of total revenue for the full year 2015.
The company generated strong free cash flow of $247 million in the quarter compared to $139 million from the year-ago quarter.
As of September 30 2015 the company had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $691 million which benefited from our free cash flow during the quarter and was negatively impacted by $83 million as a result of the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiary.
Turning to slide 10 we exited the quarter with our net-debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio at 4.0 times.
This compares to 4.1 times at both the end of last quarter and from the year-ago quarter.
We remain focused on getting to the low end of our target leverage range of 3 to 5 times.
Additionally during the quarter Level 3's corporate credit rating was upgraded by Moody's to Ba3 from B2.
Both Standard &amp; Poor's and Fitch rate our corporate credit at BB-.
We are confident in our full year financial performance despite the change in accounting for our Venezuelan operations and continued currency headwinds.
We have updated our outlook and now expect 2015 adjusted EBITDA growth of 15% to 17% compared to our previous outlook of 14% to 17%.
We continue to expect to generate $600 million to $650 million of free cash flow for the full year 2015.
All other outlook measures remain unchanged.
In summary while we still have work ahead of us on integration we have made a fair amount of progress.
From a financial perspective we are seeing steady performance in the business and remain focused on delivering profitable growth.
With that I look forward to providing everyone an update on our full year results in February and will now turn the call over to Jeff.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Sunit.
As you heard from Sunit's remarks we saw good performance in all of our regions this quarter.
While our results are rarely linear and frequently lumpy from one quarter to the next we continue to drive profitable growth and are successful in converting that growth into strong free cash flow.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the call we're a few days away from the one-year anniversary of the tw telecom acquisition.
Overall I'm pleased with the progress of the integration.
Before I get into the integration details though I'd like to announce that John Blount our North America Regional President will be retiring at the end of 2015.
I'd like to personally thank John for all of his contributions.
Early on in the acquisition process John and I both saw the fundamental role he could take and the importance of his leadership during the integration.
Even prior to closing John spent six months or so leading the integration planning from the tw telecom side.
Over the last year John has been a tremendous asset in guiding our North America business and many of our integration efforts.
John has committed to a six-month consulting agreement so I feel very fortunate that I'll have the benefit of his advice and perspectives well into 2016.
From an integration perspective while we have more work to do we've made significant progress across numerous fronts.
During the last year we've combined two large sales organizations realigned around the common general manager structure implemented a uniform go-to-market strategy established a global account management team to serve our largest customers globally standardized sales compensation and deployed a single CRM platform meanwhile maintaining voluntary sales attrition well within our expectations and continuing to grow sales production each quarter.
We defined and deployed a global purpose-built Ethernet platform.
It is not the hodgepodge deployment of new and old technology that form the foundation of many Ethernet networks.
This is a fully-architected SDN-enabled platform designed to deliver Ethernet services and a differentiated customer experience to our enterprise and wholesale customers.
We've merged disparate IP MPLS and voice networks across the company reducing complexity and costs and increasing flexibility going forward.
We combined our service assurance and travel ticketing systems in North America and are working on a consistent global environment.
We completed the integration of our global ERP systems into a single platform worldwide and are well on our way to consolidating the former tw telecom billing system into the go-forward Level 3 billing environment.
And lastly we are pleased with the synergy realization that all of these initiatives have made possible.
Again while integration is not complete we are well on our way and are pleased with the progress we've made.
With respect to the replacement for John 80% of our revenues in North America and almost all of our integration activities are focused here.
As you might imagine I already spend a significant amount of time focused on the region.
John's leadership team is excellent with broad experience and focused on delivering for our customers.
As a result of these two factors I do not intend to appoint an interim lead.
Until we replace John I will continue to spend my time ensuring we are driving our growth and executing our integration plan within the region.
We do have a number of excellent internal candidates and will look externally as well but will not be in a rush to fill the position.
I'll move on now to a question many of you ask me from time to time.
You ask why does Level 3 win? There are really two parts to the answer.
The first is about the market.
The need for the services and capabilities Level 3 provides is strong and growing.
The second is about Level 3 itself.
Our ability to effectively meet those customer needs is also strong and growing.
You've heard me talk about technology transitions accelerating and how the move to a digital world affects every aspect of our working lives.
As a result the operating environment for CIOs is becoming more and more complex.
The demand for ever-increasing capacity and bandwidth has not slowed.
Just a few years ago explosive bandwidth demand was limited to a few industries like social media financial services and healthcare.
Today you'd be hard-pressed to find an industry that does not require scalable reliable bandwidth to meet their needs for growth.
Until a few years ago CIOs controlled the applications of an enterprise the hardware those applications ran on and the devices we use to connect with them.
Today the applications may be homegrown or cloud-based.
Even homegrown applications are likely to run somewhere in the cloud over virtualized computing resources.
And we all bring our own devices to the workplaces.
Meanwhile security threats continue to escalate.
DDOS attacks have more than doubled over the last 12 months and system intrusions and data exfiltration have become almost commonplace.
Security is a critical focus for our customers and they recognize the need for securing their services in multiple ways: within the enterprise at the interface between the enterprise and the network provider and within the core of the network itself.
While the environment is more complex CIOs are also being asked to improve overall performance of their systems and reduce expenses at the same time.
So that's the environment but why do we win? Level 3 has invested in our products and our capabilities to take advantage of this dynamic environment and continually improve our execution and the customer experience we provide.
First of all we are 100% focused on the wireline needs of enterprise customers.
We're not distracted by wireless by consumers or by pay television.
We do serve wholesale customers but even then we're really targeting the needs of enterprises that those wholesale providers serve.
Wireline enterprise networking isn't a piece of our business.
It isn't an add-on to our business.
It is our business.
Level 3's expertise and experience in deploying and managing large scale complex global IP and optical networks is not easy to come by and allows us to provide a differentiated experience for our customers.
We're not mired in technologies of the past.
Rather we continually look at where customers' needs are going and how our technology should evolve.
We have a product portfolio available globally that's designed to create comprehensive solutions for customers whether dark fiber Ethernet transport public IP CDN or a host of Voice Services we're able to implement a wide range of network solutions to meet an enterprise's global needs.
We're not standing still either.
We're heavily investing and integrating SDN and the virtualization of network functionality into our product portfolio and our operating environment preparing Level 3 for the next wave of dramatic network evolution.
Our operating model and our go-to market strategy are aimed at providing an excellent customer experience with regional and local management focused on where customers' buying decisions are made.
From a security perspective we have the situational awareness and the ability to implement security capabilities at the edge and in the core of the network to assist in securing an enterprise's digital environment.
The bottom line is we have an integrated and comprehensive approach to addressing our customers' network challenges and the fiber-based network to meet those needs around the world.
Sunit has already covered our results for the quarter so I won't spend time repeating but I'll add a couple of comments.
Looking at North America Enterprise CNS revenue continues to be the key.
This quarter we grew at 2.6% sequentially or 8.3% year-over-year.
In EMEA I believe we are making progress.
We have an excellent team in place and excluding the UK government we are stabilizing the business.
The team has done a good job of extending the life of several of the UK government contracts.
But as Sunit mentioned we continue to expect double-digit declines.
Moving to Latin America I'd like to comment on the accounting change related to Venezuela.
Let me reiterate that we remain committed to the market particularly to our employees and customers in the country.
I'd like to thank our employees in Venezuela for their ongoing commitment to providing excellent service to our customers in a very difficult environment.
For the region as a whole the macro environment continues to be challenging.
But as I noted last quarter the demand for our services remained strong and we still see opportunity to grow the business to meet our customers' needs across the region as we saw from our results this quarter.
Before I open it up for questions I'd like to take a moment to commend the FCC for their action earlier this month to investigate incumbent special access tariffs.
Level 3 strongly supports a competitive marketplace and we believe the elimination of these demand lock-up agreements will create a more competitive industry and fuel investment and innovation.
Now we'll open it up for your questions.
Operator will you explain the process? Thank you sir.
Our first question comes from the line of Scott Goldman from Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hey thanks and good morning.
I guess two questions if I could.
First maybe on the synergy realization obviously a very strong quarter for the exiting run rate and I think you've now moved past your initial OpEx expectations for the synergy guidance that you set.
Maybe talk a little bit about where you're seeing the benefits coming in faster and how we think about the timing of how that hit the EBITDA.
It seems like maybe it's a little bit more fourth-quarter-weighted.
And then second question on North America enterprise Jeff we appreciate you laying out the why Level 3 wins.
And I guess as we start to head into year-end and look into 2016 and growth looks to be shaping up around 8% in North America enterprise do you think the market as we head into 2016 could support the same type of growth or maybe even something faster going forward? Okay.
I will answer the synergy question.
So I think I mean if you look at the mix that we have in the earnings presentation we've been doing quite a bit better on the operating expense side.
I think the network expense side has been running at a little slower than the pace we'd like but we've been running quite a bit ahead.
And I think a lot of that as Jeff pointed out has to do with a lot of the platforms we've put in place already which allows us to cut a lot of work internally and to be able to drive that.
In this quarter in particular as I said the synergies came more from the head count-related side expenses.
So we had some reductions in various areas as we integrated platforms.
And I think as we look out  yeah we're certainly running ahead of the $140 million we said we'd hit by the end of the first quarter next year.
And I think that we're certainly running quite a bit closer to the ultimate $200 million target that we had set for ourselves I would say ahead of schedule at this point.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> With respect to North America Enterprise first of all we've never said 8% as guidance.
We've said that's our goal and we may exceed that we may fall short of it.
We're not giving that as guidance.
That is our goal as an organization.
We had 8.3% this quarter year-over-year so we certainly think it's achievable for us but it's a goal rather than guidance.
Secondly I believe in everything that I said about the market and where the market is going and what the needs of the market are.
And I believe everything that I said about our ability to satisfy those needs.
And if you look historically we've been able to satisfy those needs better than our competitors.
So I believe in our position our competitive position in the market and our ability to continue to satisfy customers and grow the business.
Now it's always up to us to execute and we have to continue to execute.
But I do not see factors in the market that would prevent us from continuing to drive performance and from us continuing to grow in the market.
It's up to us to make sure we continue executing though.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Continuing on our next question comes from Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Great thank you very much.
Interested in your comments on the special access actions of the FCC.
Perhaps you could just help us understand any potential financial benefits or flexibility benefits that might come if indeed they move as they're talking about doing? And then yesterday Comcast talked about moving upmarket into the Fortune 1000 space.
Perhaps you can just comment on the competitive environment from the cable companies and how much impact you expect to have from that versus your ability to continue to take share from the Bells and others? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
First with respect to the FCC and I won't quantify what it means for us but I'll talk about the environment that it creates.
Today many of the incumbents have what we consider demand lock-up agreements.
It prevents customers from going to somebody else because they lose discounts on all of their services if they put a little bit of their service with some other provider.
That constrains trade.
That constrains the ability of customers to move their traffic to Level 3.
So if we eliminate those demand lock-up agreements  and the FCC is investigating them and they're asking the appropriate questions about them  if they were to decide to eliminate those demand lock-up agreements then there's a lot of opportunity for us that today is not really addressable.
Even though companies want to move services to us even though we can provide a better solution for them they don't have the ability to move because they lose their discounts on their embedded base of services if they do.
So we think it's a very positive event.
We look forward to the FCC making final rulings and we'll be very actively participate in their process to provide them with our insight and our input in the process.
With respect to Comcast Comcast is a very good company.
They're an excellent customer of Level 3 they're a vendor to Level 3 they're a partner of Level 3.
So they're a very good company.
They've done a very good job at the small end of business customers so we don't take them lightly and don't discount them in any way whatsoever.
However Level 3 already operates in a very competitive environment.
And it's a competitive environment globally for capabilities delivered around the world not just in North America not just in EMEA but around the world our customers need our services and capability.
We are very good at competing with companies that have been doing this for 100 years companies that have major shares of the market.
And we've exceeded their performance if you look at ours versus theirs over the past few years.
And so we're very comfortable about our competitive position and about the products and services that we sell to those customers.
And so this feels like we have competitors come and go in the market and this feels like more of the same.
We'll continue to focus on our execution on our products and services and delivering a customer experience that no one can match over a network that no one can match.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Simon.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Continuing on our next question comes from Nick Del Deo from MoffettNathanson LLC.
Please proceed with your question.
Okay.
Hi good morning thanks for taking my question.
First a clarification for Sunit.
I think in your comments you had mentioned that this quarter North America Enterprise revenue had benefited from some professional services revenue.
And I may have misheard but I think you said there might have been some settlement revenue in there as well.
Can you quantify how much  those amounts? Yeah.
So professional services include a wide range of things as a critical part of our services where we could be helping customers out with technology transitions as they move from where they are at today to where they want to go providing engineered solutions.
So I think that was  in North America professional services predominantly from the (32:01) segment.
In EMEA it was from both from professional services and settlements.
The quantification is about $5 million to $10 million but honestly it's tough to say.
In general it's a lumpy but growing part of our business as more and more customers try to figure out whether it's how I get into the cloud how I deal with my changing needs.
And Jeff can add to that.
But it's in that range.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Just going forward professional services is part of our strategy and we talk about it a lot internally.
How do we help customers make the transitions that they need to make to new technologies new platforms.
And so Sunit's right.
It's a lumpy part of the business.
But it's something that you'll continue to see us focus on in trying to help customers make the transitions that they need to make.
Okay great.
And then one bigger picture question for Jeff.
There's been a lot of activity in the data center space in the last year both in terms of M&amp;A and announced investments people are making.
I was wondering if you could update us on your strategy for that segment.
Are you happy with your portfolio and positioning? Are your customers satisfied with the suite of services you're offering? Are their needs starting to migrate? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that overall we're happy with the portfolio of services we have.
It's a little different Nick if you look at each of our regions our data center strategy is tightly coupled with our regional strategy.
If you look in Latin America data center is an integral part of the way customers buy our other services our transport services the various long-haul capabilities and other metro services.
It's integral to the way that they want to buy.
In North America it's not as integral.
Customers want to buy data centers separately.
They don't care if it's connected.
It may be separate; they don't care if it's connected to transport or long haul or any of those other services.
EMEA is a little bit in between the two.
So our strategy varies a little bit based on the market that we're talking about and how we're operating.
But in general we're pleased with our data center portfolio.
It tends to be a little more telco-based than the high-end data centers with all the newest capabilities.
So we tend to be a little bit lower than those really high-end data centers.
But when our customers need those types of services we're very good at partnering with other companies to make sure that we have data center space that's appropriate for our customers.
As a good example there is a data center in Omaha that's a world-class data center.
We were one of the anchor tenants in there so that we took down space so that when our customers have a need for that we can easily put them in there.
And then we can grow and expand our capabilities to match the needs that we have in the marketplace.
I want us to do better frankly in data center revenues.
I think we can do better in selling the services and growing the business.
But overall we're pleased with our portfolio and have an answer for getting into the really high-end data centers that maybe building ourselves doesn't make sense.
Okay.
And that's great.
In terms of what people want to buy security is becoming a bigger and bigger part of the conversation we have with our customers and that's an increasing need.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yep.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Great.
Before I get into my questions just a point of clarification on that last question.
I think what people are trying to make sure is that $5 million to $10 million in professional services and termination fees is that a part of the going forward part of the business the normal course of business if you will? So we don't necessarily have to be backing that out of our fourth quarter numbers? Or is that something you would recommend that we should be backing out? And then on my actual questions obviously as you guys start to generate more and more free cash flow free cash flow optionality becoming a bigger part of the discussion both on the buy side and sell side Jeff I was hoping you could provide to us what the company's current policy is around things like buybacks and so forth.
And if there isn't one in place or a view now when could we expect you to have a more formalized approach to that? And then my second question is your EBITDA went up in terms of the low end of your guidance.
You maintained your free cash flow guidance.
I'm guessing there might have been something there as relates to Venezuela in terms of why free cash flow didn't also go up but I'd like a little bit more clarity on that.
Thank you.
Sure.
So I think I'll answer all those questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I may chime in on the second one but...
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I think one with respect to the $5 million to $10 million it's tough to tell.
I mean until you end up the quarter you don't know what ends up being the case until you finish the quarter.
So I think what we are saying is some of the particular strength in the third quarter came from the areas that I mentioned.
I won't comment specifically on whether you back that out in the fourth quarter but obviously we saw particular strength.
We were above the sort of goal of 2% sequential growth or 8% year-over-year in Enterprise.
And then I think on your question on free cash flow and EBITDA guidance clearly a lot of things happening.
Clearly you saw the  most of the EBITDA in Venezuela does translate to the cash flow line because there wasn't that much in capital spending there.
And so that was a negative.
We obviously had higher cash integration expenses here in the third quarter.
So I think as we added up everything together we still think the free cash flow range we had continues to be the right range which is why we reaffirmed that.
And then as it pertains to our cash flow and returning capital I'll make a few comments and Jeff can add on to that.
But I think in general Level 3 is a growth company.
We focus on growth and we get pretty high operating and investment leverage from the existing networks we have.
We get very high returns.
So we prefer to do that.
Beyond that as you've seen we participate historically in a fair bit of consolidation and acquisition.
That continues to be a good use of money to deploy large amounts of capital at pretty attractive returns.
If we're not as successful in putting everything  all our money to work there certainly buybacks make a lot of sense or if your share prices do not value our growth prospects properly returning capital to shareholder through buybacks certainly make a lot of sense and that will be our preference versus dividends for example so at least that's our current thinking.
Having said that as Jeff has mentioned in the past as we have undergone this cash flow transformation this is a subject that we will have more to speak about or at least talk about over the next few quarters.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I actually Colby have nothing to add.
So I think Sunit said it exactly right.
I guess so it does sound like over the next few quarters we'll get more clarity on how the company is thinking about this specific portion of the business? With respect to cash flow and allocation of it yeah.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
And continuing on our next question comes from the line of John Hodulik from UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
This is Chris (39:53) for John.
I believe you continue to face some difficult comps this year with the prior Starbucks and federal contracts.
Can you talk a little about when we can expect those comps to fully roll off? And as you look into next year are there any big contracts that happened in 2015 that we should keep in mind when we look at the year-over-year growth rates within North American Enterprise? Thanks.
Sure.
I'm glad you mentioned that as we had mentioned at the beginning of the year and second quarter that those comps would negatively impact us.
And I think that as we said in the past that will continue through the early part of next year first quarter of next year.
And beyond that it's tough to see what other new pieces of business will come up.
But there is nothing this year in  that is in addition to those two contracts  that would create year-over-year comparison issues as we look at look to the second half of next year.
So there is nothing happening in the second half of this year that would create those kind of issues as we look at the second half of next year.
And again all my comments exclude UK government which as we've said will continue to decline at double-digit declines.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan from Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thank you.
Any changes going forward to the sales approach or organization after John retires? And congratulations John by the way.
And then secondly where are you seeing most of the growth in CNS? Which industry verticals are you getting the most traction with now currently? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
With respect to our sales approach we believe strongly  and I will  John's not here I will say thank you on John's behalf.
But with respect to the sales approach we believe strongly in the GM market.
And we have within the last month or so modified our organizational structure to put all the GMs into one single organization under the guy who's historically run our federal business as well Ed Morche.
And so Ed has responsibility for all of the GMs and all of the enterprise growth that comes from that North America sales team.
But our approach is still very much the same.
It's to go in and understand our customers' needs with a direct sales force that talks to our customers and listens to our customers and comes up with solutions  not just we're going to sell this service or that product we want to come up with solutions that meet their needs.
And so that sales approach continues to be the same.
We challenge our customers to make sure that they're building their networks properly and we work with them very closely to assist them in the design and construction of their infrastructure to support their businesses.
So nothing really changes about that.
We will continue to be focused on a direct sales force through the GM structure.
We also serve wholesale customers and we have indirect channels that we use.
All of those things will continue.
All of those things are working for us and we'll continue them going forward.
And on your question on where the growth is coming from I'll divide my comments into two categories.
One from a product perspective and then two from a vertical perspective.
From a product perspective I would say that the biggest thing driving us is enterprises' need for IP and data and as enterprises move to more hybrid networks it's both in IP/VPN networks Internet access for enterprises.
Good growth areas for us.
Security and CDN are emerging services but we see good growth from that especially CDN sequentially.
We think that will continue.
As I said earlier professional services is lumpy but in general that's a growth category for us as people transition to more cloud-based solutions.
The story is a little different by region as Jeff pointed out for example for data centers in Latin America.
From an industry vertical perspective I think the biggest growth driver continues to be from the technology and media software sector.
So some of the big West Coast companies are driving a fair bit of growth and then also some of the big media companies as they move to virtualize their platforms and have them in the cloud.
Some of you for example might have noticed things like the NFL game in London over the weekend carried over the Internet which is a first.
So those sorts of things generally we are a beneficiary of.
More recently we've seen also good growth from the manufacturing sector the automotive sector being one of them.
Healthcare continues to be a growth sector for us as does the financial sector.
We see a lot of opportunity over the next years in areas like energy where we have a low market share where energy companies are looking to save a lot of money as they transition their infrastructure.
So the emerging sectors where we have a low market share that we see as good growth areas for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
All right.
Thank you very much.
And thank you sir.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins from Citi.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was wondering if you can give us more insight into the capital spending in a couple of respects.
One would be ongoing maintenance versus the growth initiatives.
And maybe you could also give us some insights as to how you're spending capital geographically or in certain product areas or for certain strategies like to expand locations? Just so we can get a better appreciation for the types of investments you're making and to think about how that can drive the rest of the model.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
I'll start off and Jeff might have other things he wants to add but I think that in terms of ongoing maintenance capital roughly 15% of revenues it's about $1.2 billion of CapEx on annual basis.
And I would say that maintenance CapEx is probably about $300 million to $350 million in that range which includes upgrading some of the basic infrastructure whether it's replacing our battery plants and backup battery plants and locations that sort of thing.
Geographically I think we  most of our CapEx is success based so it's driven by where the business is coming from.
So as you would expect the vast majority of our capital goes into North America.
But areas like Latin America which are growing at faster growth rates we tend to allocate capital at a higher percent of revenue.
Areas like EMEA where we are trying to reposition the business for growth we're allocating capital at higher percent of revenues than their revenues compared to the overall 15%.
This year there's a lot of capital being spent on integration.
You heard Jeff talk about all the various platforms that we are consolidating.
That effort will continue over the next couple of years in areas like order entry to provisioning to inventory over the next year to some efforts in billing.
And then in terms of product areas as we indicated earlier this year we made a pretty significant investment to expand the capacity of our CDN network that was $50 million.
Over the last year or so we invested about $35-million-plus to build a branch off of our subsea network in Latin America into Colombia with a landing station.
We have spent money in expanding our data center capabilities in Latin America.
We have spent money in terms of doing network expansions in the U.S.
We're still maintaining a pace of adding 2 500 to 3 000 new buildings a year.
I think this last quarter we added about 700 buildings on-net buildings to the network so that continues to be a focus for us.
The other area we've spent money is in security area.
And as we look at next year I think we see continued expansion in our security capability including CDN and then further network expansions in Europe on Continental Europe as we look to expand our presence there.
So these are some of the areas and Jeff might have other things.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that Sunit touched on all the areas.
I would just look at the list of things that I talked about earlier with respect to the market needs and then how Level 3 wins and recognize that that's how we spend our capital.
Sunit mentioned adding buildings.
We want to get to our customers to provide on-net services.
Sunit mentioned expanding in markets whether it's in the U.S.
expanding fiber footprint in the U.S.
or in EMEA or in Latin America.
It's about reaching our customers with our fiber infrastructure.
I talked earlier about the Ethernet deployment that we have and integrating SDN into our capabilities so that we can make our services more accessible to our customers easier to use easier to implement within their infrastructures.
Sunit talked about CDN and security.
Those are the types of things we're investing in are the things that we see as fundamental needs for our customers and we want to bring those capabilities through an on-net presence to them across the globe.
So I think he touched on all of them pretty accurately.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you for all that detail.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you Mr.
Rollins.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
I'd kind of like to extend this discussion around how you're investing your capital and it's within the concept of as we get into maybe this time next year your liquidity is going to be expanding significantly and you're going to have this new challenge of making sure you're allocating it correctly.
And so do you feel like in all those growth areas that you outlined where you're making investments that you are making as full an investment in those areas as you think you need to? Because if that's the case it would suggest that having extra liquidity going into next year opens up a lot of other things you could do.
For example maybe you could be a little more thoughtful around inorganic growth or maybe just go right to buybacks.
And so I would just be interested in hearing around if you were going to put more capital into the business including potentially trying to make inorganic investments around areas where you see potential how do you think about that over the next couple of years? Well first of all I think in general two points.
One I think the capital intensity that we've talked about this year we think obviously is providing the room to make those investments and accommodating integration CapEx for example this year.
So next year as we have a little less in integration expense we'll be able to continue to accommodate fairly good amount of investment in all the areas I outlined.
And if by inorganic investments you mean M&amp;A certainly that's something Jeff can talk more about.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well first of all we spend 15% of our revenue today in capital.
That's the guidance that we've provided for you somewhere in that range.
We better be good at allocating capital and allocating it correctly today.
That's a lot of money.
We need to be good at it.
I always think that we could be better at finding opportunities to invest that capital.
I think we invest it very well on the opportunities we see.
I want us to get better at finding opportunities to invest the capital both organically and inorganically but organically first.
How do we find more buildings to add? Our limitation in adding buildings tends not to be our ability to execute.
It tends to be our ability to find them and source them and really put them on the list.
How do we find those opportunities to really invest? So we'll continue to try and get better at that Brett.
I mean it's something that we think has to be a core competency and we'll continue to look at how do we find opportunities to invest.
With respect to M&amp;A we're always going to be an acquisitive company.
We've talked about that for a number of years.
We're going to be opportunistic about it.
We're also going to be disciplined though.
We don't feel that we have to go buy people for us to grow.
So we'll be disciplined making sure that they're good opportunities  if there are good opportunities for us to put money to use by inorganic means then we will.
We'll also make sure that any money we've spent in the past for example to buy tw telecom that we've first succeeded in integrating that to a point where anything else might not be a distraction.
And so we're going to continue to try and find ways organically and inorganically to put money to work.
And then Sunit talked about buybacks and our thoughts on those earlier.
So we'll give you more guidance over coming quarters as those things firm up more.
If I could just ask a follow-up around a specific example of where you can maybe invest more in the business? You've talked about how the operational performance of EMEA has improved as you've brought in a new management team.
But it's still a business that is sort of sub-scale and underperforming relative to your other regions.
Do you look at that as an area where you can get to the level of growth and performance you think it's capable of just through ongoing day-to-day improvement in execution? Or do you think ultimately it's an area you'd like to maybe put a lot of more capital to at an attractive return to get to the real potential of what that region can do? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think we can put more capital to work there at attractive returns to live up to our full potential.
And I like that you chose that word to use because that's the word I use internally.
We have not yet lived up to our full potential in EMEA and I want us to do that.
And so I think there are opportunities for us for capital to work in EMEA.
Andrew Crouch and his team are intently focused on doing exactly that.
Great.
Thank you for taking the questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you sir.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Michael Funk from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Yeah thank you for taking the questions guys.
Two if I could please.
One of the large incumbents this quarter I think for the first time highlighted market share loss as a driver of their enterprise business declines.
With that being like I said a different commentary from them I was wondering if you could maybe comment on new opportunities that you guys are seeing in the enterprise space.
If you are seeing opportunity for the larger customers given the combination? I'd love to hear more thoughts there.
And then second a lot of talk about Comcast others coming in to the Fortune 1000 space.
Historically you have worked with Comcast in providing network infrastructure they may have themselves; I think you signed an agreement back in 2004 for dark fiber.
So maybe your thoughts around kind of viewing Comcast as a competitor versus the opportunity to maybe leverage your own assets and help them move where they are already going anyway and benefit from that move? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
First of all market share losses of our competitors I think that speaks for itself.
If you look at our performance over the past few years we've been growing revenue with enterprise customers.
Overall we don't think enterprise spend is increasing.
So if we're growing revenue and spend is staying flat let's say then by definition we're growing share.
And so we're very comfortable with our position there.
We're very happy with the opportunity in front of us.
We think there's a lot of opportunity for us to continue to help enterprises make the transition from older traditional technologies to IP optical services and continue to drive growth.
We're happy with our capabilities and the position that we have in the market now our competitive position in the market.
And it's  we've said for a long time that our ability to grow is based on our ability to execute.
We think the market's going where we want it to go where we are good at serving them and we'll continue to try and drive that.
When it comes to Comcast Michael you just described the wholesale provider dilemma and it's something that we're very good at.
We enable our competitors each and every day.
We sell services on a wholesale basis to many of the companies that you guys would list as our biggest competitors and we list as our biggest competitors.
So we're very good at that and recognize that we can win in two ways.
We can win by helping make Comcast more successful or helping make somebody else more successful.
But we can also win because we have capabilities that others don't have and we can win directly with enterprise customers by providing those services that  in a way that others don't or others can't.
And so we're pretty pleased with our overall position that we have.
And again Comcast is an excellent company but so are our other competitors.
Yeah and we have important differentiators.
If you look at the scope of our  I mean compared to any or not Comcast in particular but if you look at the scope of our network and the comprehensive portfolio of products and services we have quite a number of differentiating elements that continue to help us and have helped us win in the marketplace in the last few years.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Operator I believe we have time for one more question.
Yes sir.
And our final question comes from the line of James Moorman from D.
A.
Davidson.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Could you just talk a little about interconnection? I know you've signed some agreements recently and just if you're starting to see any benefit there or kind of what you can expect with those new contracts? And then just in terms of M&amp;A what you were talking about more opportunistically in Europe but given what's going on in Latin America and the problems they're having there do you think that kind of creates more probably inorganic opportunities down the road? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> With respect to interconnection we have reached agreements with many of the large incumbents and cable companies in the U.S.
We still have one or two holdouts in North America that we're working with to reach interconnection agreements with.
But we still have issues in other parts of the world as we try to interconnect with PTTs and others out there.
And so interconnection is not behind that.
Do we see benefits? We see disadvantages to consumers and to the marketplace when companies refuse to interconnect.
And so customers that want content to download when companies refuse to interconnect with Level 3 their customers suffer.
And so as we go out and we talk to our peers in the industry and those other parties that's what we focus on.
It's not the benefit for Level 3.
It's the benefit for their customers because their customers are the ones that are disadvantaged and we deliver content that their customers want and their customers' request.
And so...
And have paid for.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And have paid for.
And the better job that we do of interconnecting with them  recognizing that we're not trying to ask anybody to build network on our behalf we invest our own capital build our own network  but we're trying to help them deliver a better service to their customers.
And so that's really how we focus on interconnection.
And will continue to focus and there are a few standouts that we will continue to work on to get better interconnection with them.
With respect to M&amp;A in any particular region we just look at the opportunities that are out there and respond to those opportunities.
I've said it before but you have to have a willing buyer and a willing seller.
And so in some markets are maybe more willing sellers than we're a willing buyer.
In other markets there may not be an opportunity for us to buy something that we find compelling.
So we're opportunistic.
We stay in touch and engaged in all of the various regions across a range of things not just fiber providers but security managed services professional services.
We pay attention to a range of different things to see if there's something out there that makes sense for us.
But we are opportunistic and we'll continue to be so.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> With that thank you very much James for the final question.
I'd like to close the call with just a few thoughts.
We delivered a solid quarter of growth in our Enterprise business.
While we have more to do we've made good integration progress since the closing of the tw telecom acquisition a year ago.
We continue to demonstrate our ability and our discipline to ramp free cash flow through a focus on profitable CNS revenue growth synergy realization other cost optimization initiatives and reducing interest expense we remain firmly committed to increasing free cash flow on a per-share basis.
At the same time we're investing in the business for future revenue growth and to meet the demanding and evolving needs of enterprise customers.
As always thank you for joining today's call and for your support of Level 3.
Operator that concludes the call.
Thank you Jeff.
We'd like to thank everyone for your participation and for using Level 3's conferencing service today.
This does conclude the conference call.
We ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Level 3 Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded on Thursday February 4 2016.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Valerie Finberg Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Level 3 Communications' fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings call.
With us on the call today are Jeff Storey President and Chief Executive Officer and Sunit Patel Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
All of our earnings materials are available in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website.
I'd like to direct your attention to the footnotes to the tables presented in the press release and the earnings presentation which provide important information regarding the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan operations subsidiary last quarter and other pro forma comparison.
Comparisons to prior periods discussed today are presented on a pro forma basis assuming that the acquisition of tw telecom took place on January 1 2014.
Revenue and sales comparisons to prior periods are provided on a year-over-year and constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
Revenue comparisons also exclude results from our Venezuela subsidiary from all periods.
I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement that begins on page two of our 4Q 2015 earnings presentation.
The presentation and remarks contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Results may vary significantly from those statements and additional information is available in the Investor Relations section of the Level 3 website and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are available in the earnings presentation.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Valerie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
As you can see from our results 2015 marked a year of solid execution for Level 3.
We made good progress on the three major initiatives I outlined for the year which were first and our number one priority the successful integration of Level 3 and tw telecom; second enabling EMEA to live up to its full potential and support the growth we believe we can achieve in that region; and third position Level 3 for growth well into the future.
As a result of the work we did in 2015 we believe we are well positioned on each of these initiatives.
Most importantly is our movement toward our vision of one one set of products that we take to an expanding market one network to deliver those products globally one set of operational support systems to enable a differentiated customer experience and one team with a singular goal of making Level 3 the premier provider of enterprise networking services.
As we look to 2016 our strategy remains the same.
We are focused on operational excellence throughout our business providing a superior experience to our customers and developing the products and capabilities to meet their complex and evolving networking needs.
On today's call we'll follow our usual process.
Sunit will provide an update on our detailed results for the quarter and for the full year.
I'll provide a little more detail on our progress against our initiatives as well as our market opportunity and then we will open up the call for your questions.
With that I'll turn the call over to Sunit.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
In 2015 we met or exceeded our key outlook measures for the year.
Even with the integration global currency pressures driven by macroeconomic headwinds and the deconsolidation of a Venezuelan subsidiary last quarter we had good momentum which drove revenue adjusted EBITDA growth and profit performance for the year.
We also delivered strong free cash flow and set the stage for continued strong growth in 2016.
Looking forward we are building on this foundation investing in the business and continue to be disciplined in managing our costs as we maintain our focus on profitable growth.
Turning to slide three for a summary of our performance in 2015.
Our Core Network Services or CNS revenue for the full year 2015 grew 5.3% year-over-year on a constant currency basis.
For the full year total Enterprise CNS grew 7.2% and North America Enterprise CNS grew 7.6%.
Adjusted EBITDA grew 16% for the full year 2015 in line with our recent outlook of 15% to 17%.
From a free cash flow perspective we finished above the range of our outlook of $600 million to $650 million for the year by generating $658 million in 2015.
Free cash flow excludes $32 million of accelerated cash interest expense payments related to a refinancing that took place after reporting third quarter earnings.
We refinanced $4.9 billion of debt during 2015 resulting in over $110 million of annualized cash interest expense savings.
Additionally we continue to lower our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio which is now at 3.8 times.
Finally from a synergy perspective as of the end of fourth quarter 2015 we achieved approximately $216 million of annualized run rate adjusted EBITDA synergies since the close of the tw telecom transaction.
This exceeds our original synergy expectations to achieve $140 million by the end of the first quarter 2016 and $200 million in total.
Turning to slide four.
In the fourth quarter 2015 CNS revenue grew 4.4% on a constant currency basis and 2.4% on an as reported basis.
As we saw throughout 2015 the continued strength of the U.S.
dollar against other currencies affected our reported growth rates.
For the full year CNS revenue grew 5.3% on a constant currency basis but 2.9% on an as reported basis.
At the end of the fourth quarter the U.S.
dollar represented 90% of total revenue the British pound represented 4% the euro 3% and the Brazilian real 2%.
All other currencies are included in the remaining 1%.
I'd like to move now to a discussion of revenue on a regional basis.
North America CNS revenue grew 5.9% for the full year.
For the fourth quarter 2015 from an enterprise perspective CNS revenue grew 6.1%.
Enterprise CNS revenue grew 1.5% on a sequential basis following the particularly strong results in the third quarter of 2015 where our sequential growth was 2.7%.
Adjusting for that our North America Enterprise business is at a 2% sequential growth base over the last two quarters.
For the full year 2015 EMEA CNS revenue was relatively flat on a constant currency basis.
For the fourth quarter EMEA CNS revenue increased 0.7% on a constant currency basis and declined 4.1% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise CNS revenue excluding UK government grew 3.5% on a constant currency basis and remained flat on an as reported basis.
While Enterprise revenue growth was little slower than the results we have seen in prior quarters it was primarily a result of the unusual strength in Enterprise CNS revenue from the fourth quarter 2014.
Sequentially Enterprise CNS revenue excluding UK government grew 2.2%.
Also CNS revenue declined 0.3% on a constant currency basis and 8% on an as reported basis.
UK government CNS revenue decreased 7.9% on a constant currency basis and 10.7% on an as reported basis.
In Latin America for the full year CNS revenue grew 7.2% on a constant currency basis.
For the fourth quarter Latin America CNS revenue grew 8.4% on a constant currency basis and declined 6.4% on an as reported basis.
Enterprise CNS in Latin America grew 9.5% on a constant currency basis and declined 6.7% on an as reported basis.
Wholesale CNS revenue increased 4.1% on a constant currency basis and declined 5.4% on an as reported basis.
Our revenue mix can be found on slide five with North America representing the bulk of our CNS revenue at 81% followed by EMEA at 11% and Latin America at 8%.
Our enterprise customers represent 73% of CNS revenue while wholesale customers make up the remaining 27%.
Turning to slide six and revenue results by product group.
IP and data services grew 8.2% and continues to drive the company's growth led by growth in VPN and managed services.
Within IP and data services CDN declined year-over-year but grew 7.9% on a sequential basis.
Transport and fiber grew 1.8% driven by wavelengths and professional services.
Within transport and fiber dark fiber grew 10% year-over-year Colocation and datacenter services grew 3.9% and voice services declined by 0.5%.
Over the course of 2015 we saw little change in the overall pricing environment within our products or regions.
For 2016 we remain focused on assessing the pricing landscape and will continue to take a market-by-market approach to pricing our solutions looking at particular geographies products verticals as well as other factors and maintaining our focus on profitable growth.
One of the things we were very focused on in 2015 and will continue to be focused on this year is sales production or bookings and sales productivity.
In 2015 total sales production improved over 2014 and sales productivity grew significantly.
For the fourth quarter 2015 CNS sales production grew nicely compared to the fourth quarter 2014.
Moving to slide eight.
When we initially provided outlook for adjusted EBITDA one year ago we expected growth of 12% to 16%.
In the third quarter we updated that outlook to 15% to 17%.
We finished the full year 2015 growing adjusted EBITDA 16% to $2.638 billion.
Keep this in  keep in mind this is after the deconsolidation of Venezuela and some significant currency headwinds all during an integration year.
Adjusted EBITDA margin including integration-related expenses was 33.2% for the fourth quarter 2015.
For the full year including integration-related expenses we increased our adjusted EBITDA margin by more than 400 basis points from 28% to 32.1%.
We are confident in our ability to expand margins over time as we grow high-margin CNS revenue and optimize costs across the business.
Moving to synergies on slide nine.
As I mentioned earlier at the end of the fourth quarter we had achieved $216 million of annualized run rate savings exceeding our overall $200 million synergy target ahead of schedule.
As we continue to streamline our cost structure we expect to continue to optimize network expense.
As we've reached our $200 million target we will not be providing additional updates around future synergies.
On slide 10 we delivered strong free cash flow for the full year 2015 of $658 million.
This excludes the accelerated cash interest payments of $32 million related to capital markets activity in the fourth quarter 2015 and completed after third quarter earnings driving cash interest expense higher in the fourth quarter.
Turning to slide 11.
We exited the year with a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at 3.8 times.
This compares to 4.4 times at the end of 2014.
Over the last decade our target leverage range has been 3 times to 5 times.
We are now narrowing our target leverage range to 3.4 times and remain focused on getting to the low end of that range.
Turning to slide 12.
I'd like to outline our business outlook for 2016 which is also provided in this morning's press release.
From a revenue growth perspective all of my remarks are on a constant currency and a year-over-year basis.
In 2015 total revenue grew 3.7%.
Excluding UK government total CNS revenue grew 5.5% and Enterprise CNS revenue grew 7.4%.
For 2016 we expect total revenue growth to be higher.
We also expect total CNS and Enterprise CNS revenue growth excluding UK government revenue to be stronger in 2016 compared to 2015.
We expect total wholesale CNS revenue growth for the full year 2016 to be up slightly compared to the full year 2015.
In North America we expect total CNS and Enterprise CNS revenue growth for the full year to be comparable to the 5.9% and 7.6% growth respectively we saw in 2015.
To put that in perspective Enterprise CNS growth is expected to be quite a bit higher than the 6.1% growth we saw in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Also keep in mind that the one-time install revenue in 2015 that won't recur in 2016 is about 0.5% of North America Enterprise CNS revenue in 2015.
Adjusting for that our North America Enterprise revenue growth is expected to be higher in 2016 compared to 2015.
As a reminder our goal is to grow overall Enterprise CNS 8% on a year-over-year basis.
We also expect wholesale CNS revenue in North America to grow slightly in 2016.
In EMEA we expect total CNS revenue excluding UK government to grow in 2016.
For 2015 Enterprise CNS revenue excluding UK government increased 5.5% on a constant currency basis.
We expect comparable performance in 2016.
EMEA wholesale revenue declined 7% in 2015 on a constant currency basis and we expect a slight decline in 2016.
From a UK government perspective we anticipate an approximate 30% decline as our contract with HMRC expired in January.
Our LatAm CNS revenues grew 7.2% in 2015.
We expect performance to be stronger in 2016.
Additionally we think Enterprise CNS revenue performance will be firmly better than the 7.3% growth we saw for the full year 2015.
Latin America wholesale revenue increased 6.9% in 2015 and we expect better performance in 2016.
We also expect that wholesale voice and other revenue will decline approximately 10% in 2016.
In addition to better revenue growth in 2016 we expect to generate strong growth in adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow.
Specifically from the adjusted EBITDA starting point of $2.592 billion from 2015 which excludes the three quarters of 2015 EBITDA contribution from Venezuela we expect to grow adjusted EBITDA 9% to 12% for the full year 2016.
We expect to generate free cash flow of $1 billion to $1.1 billion for the full year 2016.
From a capital expenditure perspective we expect to spend about 15% of total revenue on CapEx in 2016 as we invest for future growth.
Additionally for 2016 we expect our full year income tax rate to average about 30%.
That rate can vary significantly in any quarter.
In summary 2015 was a transitional year for the company as we successfully worked through integrating tw telecom.
With our continued investment for organic growth coupled with our strong operating leverage we're well positioned to drive better top line performance and strong line  strong bottom line performance.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Sunit.
As I walk you through our strategy and how we think about the market opportunities I also wanted to take a few minutes to provide more detail on our performance last year on the company's three key initiatives starting with the successful integration of tw telecom.
As I noted early last year we expected 2015 to be a year of transition with all of the heavy lifting that usually occurs in the first year after a large acquisition.
To highlight just a couple of examples of our progress here I'll start with the sales force and sales process maintaining an effective sales force with the initial focal point of our integration efforts because those employees are the closest connection to our customers and drive our growth.
Early in the year we consolidated accounts and enabled a common comprehensive customer relationship management system.
We then rolled out consistent compensation plans unified our general manager structure and developed and conducted cross-training on the combined companies' products.
Even with all this change our 2015 CNS sales were higher than in 2014 for the combined companies.
While we have additional work to make the process easier for our sales team we feel good about where we are and how the actions we've taken set us up for growth this year and in future years.
We also combined networks streamlining our cost structure and capitalizing on our metro and long-haul assets.
Again we have more opportunity and work to do here but we believe we have the best global network supported by a deep metro footprint across the United States and growing footprints in EMEA and Latin America.
In addition we are able to hit our run rate synergy targets much sooner than expected.
As the team focused on operational excellence we know that moving customers on net and eliminating operational inefficiencies are the best ways to drive a differentiated customer experience.
Many of you have asked me about the potential revenue synergies associated with the combination of the two companies.
As I stated before and as we've seen with prior acquisitions the pace and degree of change can be a lot for a sales force to process.
However as we work through integration throughout the year we've seen benefits from a revenue perspective.
While we have not specifically quantified the dollar impact of revenue synergies cross-selling and up-selling opportunities are a factor for us.
I'll give you an example of a customer win from last quarter that demonstrates the power of the combined company.
Heritage Home Group or HHG is a world leader in designing manufacturing sourcing and retailing home furnishings.
They market their products through a wide range of channels including their own Thomasville retail stores to interior designers multi-line independent retailers and mass merchant stores.
The Heritage Home Group portfolio includes some of the best known and most respected brands in the furniture industry.
As a tw telecom customer since 2003 HHG historically used a large incumbent telco as their primary provider for their 50-or-so locations.
tw telecom was limited in its ability to service many of HHG's domestic and international sites and complex voice needs.
Additionally HHG had grown to the point where they required more bandwidth to meet the demands of their business and were looking for a provider who could help with more of their networking needs in all of their sites.
In the fourth quarter of last year Level 3 was successful in winning HHG's global WAN and voice business.
The selection of Level 3 was based on the larger network stronger service capabilities and the customer references we offered.
Additionally Level 3's Voice Complete solution was much more robust and met their needs better than services available from tw telecom or the incumbents.
Finally our Secure Access solution enabled HHG to incorporate international sites in a way that was not previously possible.
As a combined company we went from supporting 5 sites to now supporting 50 sites and have added products such as global managed services  excuse me global Managed Security that were not available through stand-alone tw telecom.
As a reminder we occasionally win large multi-site deals with brand-new customers.
Our typical approach is to begin customer relationship exactly like we did with HHG.
We generally start with a single product in a few locations.
After we demonstrate our performance we can then grow substantially in a number of locations and services we provide to meet their complex networking needs.
Moving to an update on EMEA.
2015 was also a year of transition for that region.
The telecommunications market in EMEA is sizable nearly as large as the U.S.
market yet our market share in the region is much lower.
While we have a nice business in the United Kingdom we did not have the right go-to-market strategy or sales structure to take advantage of the opportunity on the continent or drive even better penetration in the UK.
Over the last year we built a very talented leadership team to ensure we aggressively attack the market.
We have concentrated our focus on four primary markets: the UK Germany France and Benelux and have implemented a disciplined sales and investment process to enable profitable growth in that region.
Additionally our global Ethernet and Voice Complete products will be fully available in the region by the end of the first quarter.
We've made good progress in 2015.
After several years of declining revenue in EMEA revenue was essentially flat last year.
For 2016 excluding UK government we expect EMEA CNS revenue to grow on a constant currency basis.
We do believe we can benefit from additional scale in the region and are actively investing to expand our growth opportunities.
Turning to our initiatives position Level 3 for future growth.
Our strategy to be the premier provider of global communications services focused on the enterprise networking market has two key components: to develop the capabilities our customers need and to do so over an efficient unified global platform.
In the past customers thought of the network as a noun.
It was a thing that they use to tie their internal systems together in a few locations.
Today our customers know that network is actually a verb.
It's not a thing.
Network is an action.
How well they network with their customers their suppliers their employees and even the equipment they use determines how effectively they can empower and drive their businesses forward.
With the rapid deployment of cloud services and the growth of the Internet of Things customers know that how they network drives efficiencies new products and entire new business models.
With respect to the Internet of Things it's important to note that many of the things are already there.
It's the connectivity to those things and the ability to network those things that is rapidly evolving.
Air handlers in a manufacturing facility or infusion pumps in a hospital room already exist.
What would be different is the ability to efficiently network those devices and integrate them into the performance of the company.
Networking is at the center of many of the technology transitions that are under way.
Whether it is the need for heightened security capabilities increasing demand to connect globally the migration to the cloud or the delivery of over-the-top content customers know that the network is a physical asset they use to move their data around but it is really the action of networking that drives their success.
As a result they turn to Level 3.
With our focus on enterprise networking we are not distracted by wireless consumer services or other initiatives.
We are solely focused on meeting our customers' ever-expanding demands for capacity and networking services.
While just buzzwords for many software-defined networking and network function virtualization or SDN and NFV are actually built into the capabilities we deliver and help our customers with their networking requirements.
Our Adaptive Network Control and Cloud Connect Solutions products allow enterprises to dynamically adjust bandwidth as they move computing resources from their own data center to an outsourced data center or to a cloud service provider.
They are no longer limited in their operations by inflexible networks or the inherent insecurity of the public Internet.
Let me give you some examples of how our customers are using our capabilities today.
Big data analytics.
Big data is driving the need for more bandwidth to the cloud.
Our customers who are leveraging big data tools in the cloud need to create connections to enable their data analysis.
These customers require temporary increase in bandwidth to move terabytes of data and then return to normal volumes for everyday use.
We have recently enabled this type of application for our customers in genome sequencing biopharma higher ed research and oil and gas exploration to name a few.
Project-oriented IT.
Many organizations need to deploy application environments for a discrete period of time but they still want the security and performance delivered with private connectivity.
Think of the upcoming presidential race or tax season.
Using remote data centers or cloud service providers organizations can spin up the IT resources to support these applications needed for short periods of time.
Our Adaptive Network Control capabilities can then be used to allow the network to match the agility of cloud resources scaling the network resources on demand to support their application.
By continuing to build into more data centers and more cloud service providers across the globe Level 3 remains one of the best connected communications companies to leading cloud providers.
Those connections coupled with Adaptive Network Control are creating networking environment that matches the flexibility of a cloud environment and allows customers to more effectively utilize cloud resources.
We see this as a key opportunity and we'll continue to invest in both our capabilities and expanding our connectivity to those providers.
From a net revenue perspective our goal is to drive 8% year-over-year CNS Enterprise growth.
We have several levers to help us meet this goal including continuing to grow our sales force and sales support teams further developing our products and service offerings to meet the needs of the market and investing to expand our network.
We're not quite there yet.
But this remains our objective.
And as a company and a management team we are working toward accelerating revenue growth through these and other initiatives.
Before we open it up for your questions I'd like to take one minute and talk about how we think about capital allocation going forward.
As Sunit noted we expect to generate between $1 billion and $1 point billion (sic) [$1.1 billion] of free cash flow in 2016.
As a result of our performance we are certainly in a different position with regard to our degrees of freedom with cash than we have been at any other time in the history of the company.
We firmly believe that putting excess cash to work is accretive to stockholder value.
As we've indicated we're a growth company.
And therefore our top priority is investing in the business.
In 2016 we will continue to invest around 15% of total revenue in capital expenditures.
Even with that level of investment we'll be generating more cash than we can use organically.
That brings me to our second priority.
As our market share is low in a consolidating industry we will continue to capitalize on acquisition opportunities whether to grow our market share or expand our capabilities.
We believe we have demonstrated a strong track record over the past few years delivering value to stockholders though our disciplined acquisition strategy and integration execution.
At some point and in the absence of the opportunities to put cash toward  to drive growth and fulfill our long-term strategy returning capital to stockholders is an appropriate consideration.
Keeping in mind that 2015 was only the second year we generated substantial free cash flow we will continue to be very disciplined in our efforts to drive revenue growth adjusted EBITDA growth and consistent growth in free cash flow per share.
All of our capital allocation decisions are evaluated through the lens of providing the best return for our stockholders.
With that we will open it up for your questions.
Operator would you explain the process? Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen Our first question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen &amp; Co.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thank you.
I guess Jeff just on that last point you made there how important is it to the management team to the board to have potentially a buyback plan simply in place this year so that if  as you go through the course of the year you haven't been successful in finding a deal that makes sense for you.
And ultimately you have this cash building and you're not deploying it as aggressively through M&amp;A as you might have anticipated or wanted to.
And then as part of that it does look like at least in our model that you could very well be at the low end if not below three turns of leverage whether it's at the end of 2016 or maybe early 2017 which if I'm not mistaken could actually make you possible  or give you an option to be investment grade.
How important is it for Level 3 in your business model to be investment grade? Is that something that you guys aspire to or would actually look to go below three turns to achieve over the long term? Thank you.
Yeah.
Colby I'll take that.
I think on the leverage ratio no we think three times is appropriate.
We're not looking to go below that.
So we think that's the right level for us.
That's why we said the lower end of three times to four times.
With respect to your question on when in 2016 I mean just to further expand on what Jeff said I mean if you look at our returns over the last five years over the last five years our compounded annual return on our stock price has been 30%.
A big reason for that has been the two big M&amp;A deals we did Global Crossing and tw.
And so we think that successful M&amp;A has been a key part of that and will continue to be a key part of that not to mention that expanding our market share is important.
But also all of these acquisitions have really improved our competitive and strategic position and the durability of the growth and the returns we can provide over time.
So I think just expanding on that with Jeff that will continue to be our focus.
I think if we come to some point late in the year where we'll figure out we have not been successful and then as Jeff said our goal is to maximize or optimize free cash flow per share over the long term.
So I think there is no specific timeline at this point but I just want to remind everyone that a big reason why the returns have been the way they have been in the last five years has been M&amp;A driven besides just organic growth.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And we'll continue to focus on those things organic growth and M&amp;A.
And then your point is it's an appropriate consideration for us to think about in the event we still have excess cash after those things.
And I also want to emphasize we're very disciplined about both of those areas.
We're disciplined in driving profitable growth and we've been very disciplined in M&amp;A.
So we'll stay focused on that but maintain the discipline that we've demonstrated in the past.
Great.
And just one quick housekeeping item.
How much is dark fiber now as a percentage of total revenue? I know you gave the growth rate of 10%.
But as a percent of revenue now what is dark fiber to the total business? It's about 6% of CNS revenue roughly.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Goldman with Jefferies and Company.
Please proceed.
Great guys.
Good morning.
I guess a couple of questions.
One maybe a little bit more housekeeping on the North America Enterprise guidance I just want to make sure I understand.
It sounds like you still feel very comfortable with sort of the 8% target range on there but perhaps 2016 would be impacted by the fact that you had some one-time benefits that came in 2015 that might impact the growth.
But I just want to see what your comfort level is with the ability to hit 8% in North America Enterprise for 2016.
And then secondly on the synergies side obviously I mean I think that's really ramped up significantly in the last couple of quarters.
Maybe you could walk us through a little bit where that's coming from why you've been able to exceed in what areas you've been able to exceed not only your near-term target but what was your total target.
And if I'm not mistaken you're not at the network access target that you set out initially.
Is there still more synergies to come particularly on the network access side? Thanks.
Sure.
So I'll start with the North America Enterprise.
As we said the growth will be comparable to last year which was 7.4% 7.6%.
So I think that if you were to look at the underlying run rate excluding the 0.5%-or-so benefit we got from one-time install revenue in 2015 that we don't expect to incur in 2016 from an underlying perspective we're close to sort of the 8% growth rate.
Now obviously as we report over the course of a year because of that install revenue in 2015 that impacts the growth rate by 0.5%.
That's why we said we'd be comparable to the performance we saw in 2015.
Now as Jeff pointed out our goal is firmly to be at 8% so we're going to work hard over the course of the year to make the investments to do that but I think the guidance we provided is the best insight we have at this point in time.
On the synergy side I think as you've seen from the schedule we provided all the favorability has come from the operating expense side.
I think some of the key areas that drove that.
One was on non-head count related expenses we work very hard with all our suppliers so whether it's equipment suppliers that charge us maintenance fees utility costs to drive efficiency initiatives.
So it's a combination of synergies and efficiencies on the non-head count side.
We also I think gained a fair bit of benefit from the head count side which was a tough and delicate balance to achieve while at the same time with a heavy integration load and we still have some integration to go.
So I think  so it was a combination of non-head count and head count related expenses and we got a fair bit of benefit on the capital expenditure side that we haven't talked about here but we mentioned last year.
We negotiated with our suppliers to put that in place  to have those savings in place right at the beginning of last year.
So it actually had the effect of increasing our investment compared to what the stand-alone companies were investing in 2014 just because we have better pricing.
Finally your questions on network excess  access expenses yeah we haven't  that hasn't worked out as well as we thought.
We  but remember our ultimate target was about $110 million but we didn't expect to achieve until closer to the end of this year.
So as we  as I said in my remarks we'll continue to optimize that.
It gets tougher and tougher to report that separately as synergies but you'll see that in our network expense margins going forward.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thanks very much.
So just coming back to the M&amp;A comment.
I certainly understand the opportunities there but we haven't seen any transactions in sometime.
So can you just talk a little bit about the landscape? And presumably you've had plenty of sort of operational flexibility to do another deal here in the last few quarters.
So has it been price? Has it been opportunities? What are the kind of the things that you're looking for to be able to make another step forward here? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well first of all we said at the end of last year  at the end of 2014 that our primary objective for 2015 was a successful integration of tw telecom.
And so that has been our primary focus.
We believe that that is the most important use of our time and resources.
And so that is where we focused throughout 2015.
There are lots of opportunities out there for M&amp;A from a variety of different perspectives.
Some are to expand our footprint some are to expand our capabilities in new products and services some to expand our customer base.
And we'll continue to look at those from a disciplined perspective.
But up until now our focus has been integrating tw telecom and we think we're in a position now to continue looking forward.
And given  Sunit given your new leverage target would you be willing to go above that target temporarily to do the right deal? No.
I think we've been very disciplined on the target.
We've never really kind of gone above the target.
So I think like as we've done in the past we would look to be within that range pro forma for synergies for anything we would look at.
So we're not really  and we're already within the target.
We are 3.8 times.
And with the EBITDA growth this year every quarter we'll see that number come down approaching 3 over the next year.
So I think yeah I mean we'd stay within the range on any acquisition pro forma for synergies.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Del Deo with MoffettNathanson.
Please proceed.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my question.
First a follow-up regarding synergies.
So I recognized that it gets harder to break these things out as time goes on and you're not going to disclose any specific stats going forward.
But broadly speaking what's been embedded in your 2016 outlook from a synergy perspective? Yeah.
So I think that it's been  it's a year and three months after.
So the teams run based on what their targets are for the year from a budget perspective.
There's no kind of distinction between synergies and non-synergies.
And so it's embedded within the targets we set for various areas.
So I think that  again I don't think  I mean in general I think from an operating expense perspective we have done a lot.
There won't be as much from an operating expense perspective other than as we consolidate systems and platforms we will continue to get some savings on the margin.
But as Jeff pointed out we're also looking to expand our sales force and associated support with that.
On the network expense side I think it's mostly continued optimization that will benefit us.
Over time we might see some benefit in operating expenses on the real estate side.
But again it's within the guidance we have provided.
Okay.
Great.
And then maybe one sort of macro question.
Some folks are worried that we might be headed towards a weaker economic environment in the U.S.
And I'd be interested in hearing your thoughts regarding how sensitive you think your business is to swings in the macro economy.
And obviously during the last recession I think the business struggled a bit but your mix has changed a lot since then.
And you might also argue that your important services (43:53) you provide to your customers has improved or increased.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think you're exactly right Nick.
And if you look at our mix we're 73% enterprise 23% wholesale.
The last downturn  major downturn in the economy we had a very different mix at that point.
And I also think you're right in the statement that the services we provide are absolutely critical to our customers.
And as customers if they are going through difficulty it's not a change in their bandwidth demand.
It's not a change in the complexity of the network environment the increased demand for security services.
All of those things will drive customers to looking at new solutions and technology transitions as opposed to causing them to shy away from making those decisions.
So we think we're in a very good position and that the ability of Level 3 to perform is up to our execution.
And one final thing I would add to that is we have been gaining market share vis--vis our competitors and I think that opportunity continues to exist for us.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you both.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Barry McCarver with Stephens.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys and thanks for taking my questions.
So two questions.
I guess first off you highlighted the strength in dark fiber.
I know that's been a highlight for several quarters.
Within the product lines do you expect that continue to be a strong driver for the business? And what other lines might also you point out as being a highlight? And then just secondly in regards to M&amp;A I certainly feel like there's a certain competitive advantage of continuing to move into new markets and look for new footprints.
Do you view M&amp;A strategically that way? Or do you feel comfortable with your existing footprint being able to provide plenty of growth for the foreseeable future? Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Let me  I'll let Sunit comment directly on dark fiber.
But let me talk about one of the strength of Level 3 and that's our ability to match our services to a customer's networking needs.
And so we have customers and applications for those customers where dark fiber is absolutely an appropriate solution.
If you want to tie two locally located data centers together dark fiber is a good solution for that.
If you want to tie two data centers across the country together our 100-gig wave (46:36) products are good solutions for that.
If you want to tie a data center to a branch office our IP/VPN products are good for that.
And so we looked at that overall comprehensive portfolio and recognized that our customers have very  a variety of different networking challenges that they're trying to solve.
And so we match our technologies.
We don't  we're not limited to just CDN.
We're not limited to just Internet.
We match our technologies and our solutions to their networking needs.
And so we think that's a strong capability that we offer versus most of our competitors.
With respect to M&amp;A we are very pleased with our footprint but we want to continue to expand our footprint both in depth and in geography.
So if you look at EMEA for example I mentioned that we are focused on expanding in four key markets.
That means growing richer and deeper in fiber in the UK but also richer and deeper in fiber in Germany France and Benelux.
And so we'll continue to look at those both organically and inorganically of how do we put our cash to work to drive the growth for Level 3.
Sunit? Yeah.
So I think on your questions within product areas so dark fiber has been a good grower for us.
But remember we have pretty diversified portfolio and a comprehensive portfolio of products and services that are more solution driven as Jeff mentioned based on what our customers' needs are.
We continue to see dark fiber performing well over the next couple of years as some of our customers' scale needs are large and that solution works for them.
Then the other area CDN we've talked about  we told  we said last year we made a significant investment there.
We are beginning to see the benefits there.
There are other areas that we've made investments that we'll talk about in the future like security services that Jeff has talked about.
We continue to make reasonable sized investments in that area and that's something we'll be able to talk about more tangibly later in the year or next year.
So these are some of the areas.
But in general the basic message I think is the demand drivers for bandwidth continuing strength for all of the things that Jeff cited and that's what we are leveraged towards.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Feldman with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Just a quick follow-up on the leverage questions you've been getting.
The decision to lower the top end of the range I'm just wondering what drove that.
For example did you get any maybe color or commentary out of the credit markets that your incremental funding costs could be a lot lower if you're willing to commit to a lower floor? And then you guys provided a really constructive view on what supports your revenue outlook for this year.
And Jeff I was hoping you can maybe just provide a little more color in terms of what's behind that.
Specifically how much of that outlook is based on the demand environment in general what you're seeing in sales funnels where you're seeing client spend? And to what extent  does it represent an improved ability to tackle those opportunities because of where you are in the integration of TWTC and some of the other initiatives you've been pursuing to make the company more efficient? Thanks.
Brett I'll take the leverage question and Jeff can take the other one.
But I think on the leverage thing keep in mind we've been now saying for a couple of years that we want to be at the low end of 3 to 5.
So that says that we were kind of already saying 3 for the last two years.
So taking the top end of that from 5 to 4 wasn't as big a deal other than just to establish a 4 marker (50:22) and we think a 3 to 4 range is good and being at the low end of that is good.
So even though we've taken the top down from 5 to 4 we have been saying for the last two years we wanted to be at the low end of 3 to 5.
It wasn't driven in any part by anything to do with the current markets.
So I think we have always been pretty firm and steady in our guidance there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
And I think that we're at an intersection in the market for Level 3.
We have an exceptional network that is  it's global in nature it's diverse in its geography it has capabilities across that spectrum of products that we're able to layer on security services CDN services managed services professional services on top of that to help our customers do the migrations in technology and the transitions in technologies that they have to do.
We've made great progress in the integration of tw telecom and we have an excellent workforce across the globe focused on making Level 3 the best provider.
And then we have a market that's moving toward our capabilities not away from our capabilities.
Customers need the types of services that Level 3 is offering.
The need for that is continuing to grow.
They are operating in very complicated environments with many external threats with technology changes that they have to implement within their businesses with new business opportunities and other things coming from things like Internet of Things and opportunities to increase the flexibility of their network with technologies like SDN and NFV.
And so we think we're at a great intersection between where the network is where customers are going and our capabilities to deliver that based on the work that we've done over the last year.
Thanks for that color.
Our next question comes from the line of John Hodulik with UBS.
Please proceed.
Hi.
This is Chris (52:33) for John.
Going back to the install revenues that occurred in North American Enterprise in 2015 can you highlight what quarters those benefits were mainly realized in and how we should think about the quarterly comps over the course of 2016? Sure.
I mean I think obviously we saw strength in the third quarter that we talked about and there was some in the first quarter but I would say the first three quarters more than the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And in regards to the CapEx I believe you have some integration CapEx that's actually going to fall off year-over-year which would give you some added room for growth investments.
Can you talk about what the components of your budget for next year and what product areas or regions you're most focused on at this point? Sure.
So I think the message is one we are spending more CapEx in dollars in 2016 compared to 2015 since the revenue  total revenue is growing.
And you're right in that the  since we have less  much less in integration CapEx in 2016 compared to 2015 we do have more CapEx just from that perspective that we're putting to work.
In terms of the component sales as we've stated in the past most of our capital expenditure is success-based driven by customer contracts.
About $300 million to $350 million is what we had described as sort of maintenance upgrade-type CapEx.
The rest is expansion CapEx.
The thrust of the expansion capital this year will be some of the things that Jeff mentioned which is expanding our network footprint both deeper within existing geographies and in new geographies.
I think that will be a big chunk.
We are spending capital to  for data centers on a select basis in different  in some regions.
We are spending capital for upgrading or putting in more capacity on our subsea systems.
We are investing capital on long-haul dark fiber routes where needed.
So these are several different areas that we're investing capital.
The other area we're going to be investing more capital is an area we cited earlier the security business.
We talked about we're going to continue to put more capital in that area but  and Jeff if you want to add to any of those areas key things.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rollins with Citi.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks for taking the question.
I'm just curious with the fiber that you have in the series of acquisitions that you've done the number of buildings that you connect to is there a way to frame any advantage you may have in terms of the cost to expand the network to meet customer needs or what that might relate into a pricing advantage because of the cost structure that you may be able to achieve? Thanks.
Sure.
That's a great question.
I think this is the  what we call the network advantage because the more network you have the more closer you are to building.
So the advantage in winning new business is two-fold.
One because you are connected to more buildings you get a higher margin or lower cost structure to or more degrees of freedom to win the business.
But in addition to your point to tie in new buildings in any particular customer proposal we are going for our cost to get to that is generally lower than other providers just because of the depth and capillarity of our network.
So  and the other key point there is because we operate in a number of geographies we do more often than not when a customer has a need we can get to more of their locations on that than our competitors do which is why one of the reasons we talked about acquisitions is that not only do they give you synergies and accretive free cash flow per share but actually improve your competitive and strategic position and the durability of the advantage that you have vis--vis your competition.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Cusick with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
This is Eric in for Phil.
Just maybe to follow up on M&amp;A.
With the current macro headwinds outside the U.S.
do you still view international expansion as more or less attractive at this time? And if so  if it is still more attractive are you more interested in lit or dark assets? And how do you feel about the current valuation of these assets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Several questions in there I'll try and get to  get them all Eric.
If I don't ask again.
But if you look at our capabilities we have very rich long-haul and metro assets throughout the U.S.
We don't have as rich in EMEA and LatAm.
And so obviously those are areas that we want to continue to expand.
Whether that's through organic or inorganic we want to make sure that we build an infrastructure that matches our opportunity in those markets.
And so we believe that we have great opportunity to do that.
With respect to pricing of those types of assets I don't really have any comment on that.
We will be disciplined if we look at M&amp;A activities and make sure that we believe that the value that we're getting is appropriate for what we're paying and we'll continue to use that discipline that we've demonstrated in the past and making sure that we believe we can execute on the integration in the way that we've done in the past and we'll continue to focus on those things.
Got it.
And you mentioned that you're expecting stronger growth in LatAm this year.
What are you seeing in terms of the macro headwinds there? And how do you expect that to impact you guys? Yeah.
So in LatAm I think we did get impacted by the macro headwinds.
Last year we talked about it.
We adjusted our expectations middle of the year for LatAm.
I think that our LatAm business finished quite strongly in the fourth quarter.
And I think what's driving it is what Jeff and I have been talking about which is just a good demand backdrop for bandwidth as the bandwidth maturity level  adoption level in Latin America is lower than North America and they're just rising up that curve.
So we are benefiting from all kinds of drivers.
Whether it's from the enterprise side directly or content it's a big driver of our growth there.
So it's just the demand backdrop for bandwidth is what's driving it.
So we do expect better performance in at LatAm on a constant currency basis.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Operator I think we have time for one more question.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Horan with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Jeff it seems like the Internet companies and their cloud strategies the top five or six guys are really changing the dynamics of the industry quite a bit.
They're spending a huge amount on CapEx.
Could you maybe just talk about how you're partnering with them or how it's going to (01:00:08) maybe what the customer relationships are changing and the network relationships are changing as you either compete with them or partner with them? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure absolutely.
And we do partner with them.
All those companies that you could cite are customers of Level 3 or partners of Level 3.
So we focus very much on partnering with them.
We also recognize that they are pools of demand that our customers want to get to.
And so we are connecting to them and building to them very consistently and are the  I'd argue are the best connected globally to many of those types of companies.
And so we'll continue to partner we'll continue to build to them.
The other thing that we are trying to do is change  and we are doing is changing the way networks operate so that the enterprise customers can take advantage of those resources more effectively.
Historically networks have been very inflexible.
You build up capacity.
You nail that capacity up and it just stays there and that's all you have.
We have changed  with our Adaptive Network Control capabilities and our Cloud Connect Solutions products we have changed that dynamic and are creating flexible networks that allow enterprise customers to more effectively utilize those cloud environments and those  and access those different pools of demand with very flexible network design.
So we'll continue to partner with them and continue to focus on making sure that Level 3 is the most connected and the best equipped to take advantage of that for our customers.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> With that I'd like to close the call with just a few thoughts.
As evidenced by our continued growth in market share our strategy to position Level 3 as the premier provider of global communication services is working.
We believe we are at the intersection of the best network the best people and the right market opportunity to continue to grow.
The ability to generate significant free cash flow is evident in our performance last year and our expectation for 2016 and remains a focus for the business through continued profitable growth.
We remain focused on our enterprise networking customers and on providing a differentiated customer experience.
Lastly I'd like to thank our dedicated employees around the globe for their significant contributions in 2015.
They are the engine that drives Level 3.
As always thank you for joining today's call.
Thank you for your questions and for your support of Level 3.
Operator that concludes the call.
Thank you Jeff.
We would like to thank everyone for your participation and for using the Level 3 conferencing service today.
This does conclude the conference call.
We ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.