Hello and welcome to the first quarter earnings conference call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO.
And we'd like to welcome you all to our first quarter call.
Results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the first quarter with sales of $941 million and EPS of $0.72 achieving strong growth in both sales and earnings per share and meeting the high end of the company's guidance.
Sales were up 22% in U.S.
dollars and 21% in the local currencies over Q1 of 2010.
From an organic standpoint excluding the effects of both currency and acquisitions sales in Q1 2011 were up 17% over last year.
From a sequential standpoint sales were down 1% from a record Q4 of 2010.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components our Cable [Cable Products] business which comprised 7% of sales in the quarter was down 6% from last year and up 7% from last quarter.
The sales decline from last year relates primarily to lower spending in North American broadband markets.
The Interconnect [Interconnect Products and Assemblies] business which comprised 93% of our sales was up 25% from last year and down about 2% sequentially.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income for the quarter was $186 million compared to $145 million last year.
Operating margin was 19.8% compared to 18.8% last year.
Operating income in both periods is net of stock option expense of about 0.7% of sales or $6.3 million in the 2011 quarter and $5.4 million in the 2010 quarter.
From a segment standpoint in the Cable business margins were 11.8% down from 14.9% last year.
The margin decline relates primarily to higher relative material costs and lower volume.
In the Interconnect business margins were 22.1% compared to 21.1% last year.
The improvement in margin of about 1% reflects the benefits of higher volume combined with the proactive and aggressive management of all elements of cost.
Overall we're very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement of 19.8%.
This represents a conversion margin on incremental sales over last year of about 24%.
This is excellent performance in any environment but particularly in the face of unprecedented global cost pressures.
We continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control will allow us to continue to react in a fast and flexible manner and achieve strong profitability going forward.
Interest expense for the quarter was $10 million both this year and last year reflecting a similar average debt level and interest rates.
Other income was $1.7 million in the first quarter of 2011 up from about $0.5 million in the first quarter of 2010 primarily as a result of higher interest income and higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
The effective tax rate in the first quarter was 27.5% compared to 26.1% last year.
The prior year quarter included a onetime benefit of about $1.9 million or $0.01 per share from a reduction in tax expense for tax reserve adjustments relating to the completion of certain prior year audits.
We currently expect a rate of about 27.5% for the remainder of this year.
Net income was approximately 14% of sales a very strong performance and diluted earnings per share for the first quarter grew 29% over the prior year on an as-reported basis and 31% after adjusting the prior year earnings per share for the onetime tax benefit.
Orders in the quarter were a record $961 million up 16% from last year resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 1.02:1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash and cash flow from operations in the first quarter was $108 million about 83% of net income in the quarter.
Operating cash flow in Q1 is net of a $15 million contribution to the company's U.S.
defined benefit plans and a 7% sequential increase in the operating components of working capital reflecting an increase in inventory and receivables partially offset by an increase in accounts payable balances.
Inventory increased about 10% over December to $603 million in the quarter resulting in inventory days of about 85.
Approximately half the inventory increase relates to a higher investment in raw materials in the quarter.
We consider this higher investment prudent given the potential for disruptions in the broader supply chain resulting from the events in Japan and the potential for further significant increases in commodity costs.
The remaining increase is to support sequentially higher sales in Q2.
Accounts receivable was $744 million at the end of March up 4% from the end of December reflecting the heavy weighting of sales in March in the quarter.
Days sales outstanding increased 3 days to 71 days at the end of March up from 68 days at the end of December.
In addition accounts payable increased about 8% to $414 million at the end of the quarter.
Payable days increased from 54 days at the end of 2010 to 59 days at the end of March reflecting both the higher overall inventory purchasing level and the proportion of activity for the quarter that occurred in March.
I would also add that the foreign exchange impact from the weaker dollar added about 1 day to all of these metrics for inventory receivable and payable days at the end of the quarter.
In the second quarter we would expect to see operating working capital and the related turnover metrics improve back to our historical norms although we may continue to hold a slightly higher raw-material inventory level.
Our cash flow from operations of $108 million along with borrowings under the company's credit and receivable facilities of $150 million and $17 million in proceeds and related tax benefits from option exercises were used primarily for $23 million of capital expenditures an increase in cash and cash investments of $67 million and the purchase of about 3.5 million of shares of the company's stock for approximately $189 million under the company's stock buyback program.
The company has about 16 million shares remaining under the 20-million-share stock buyback program that we announced earlier this year.
And if you recall the program expires in January of 2014.
At the end of March the cash and short-term investments were $691 million the majority of which continues to be held outside the U.S.
And debt at the end of March was $950 million excuse me bringing net debt to approximately $260 million at the end of the quarter.
At March 31 the company had availability under its revolving credit facility of about $0.75 billion and the company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remained very strong at 1x and 22x respectively.
EBITDA in the quarter was $222 million.
From a financial perspective this was a very strong quarter.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business.
Well thank you very much Diana and I would like to add my own welcome to all of you on the phone today at the time of our first quarter earnings call.
I'll spend a little bit of time to highlight some of our first quarter achievements.
I'll then discuss the trends and the progress in our served markets.
And then I'll finish up by commenting on our outlook for the second quarter as well as for the full year of 2011.
As Diana just detailed the first quarter was an excellent start to 2011 for Amphenol with the company reaching the high end of our guidance in sales and earnings per share despite significant cost challenges and a continued dynamic market condition.
Revenues in the quarter grew a very strong 22% from prior year reaching $941 million and orders reached a new record of $961 million.
Despite significant and pervasive challenges on cost around the world the Amphenol operating team executed extremely well in the quarter and we're very proud to have achieved operating margins of 19.8%.
We also continued to generate excellent cash flow of $108 million used in particular for our latest acquisition as well as the renewal of our stock buyback program.
These results are a direct reflection of the strength and the discipline of our agile organization and the entrepreneurial management team of Amphenol.
In the quarter as mentioned we completed the acquisition of a European and North American-based manufacturer of specialized high-technology automotive lighting interconnect products.
This company has annual sales of approximately $50 million.
This acquisition builds upon our expanding range of high-technology interconnect products for automotive electronics applications and is consistent with our ongoing strategy of finding complementary companies with strong management leading technology and excellent market presence.
We're very confident that our ongoing acquisition program will continue to create value for Amphenol into the future.
Turning now to the trends in our served markets.
The military and aerospace market represented 22% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in that market increased a very strong 27% from prior year benefiting from continued strength in a broad range of military and commercial aerospace programs as well as from the contribution of the Borisch acquisition completed last year.
On a sequential basis sales declined slightly reflecting some short-term caution on the part of defense contractors resulting in particular from uncertainty surrounding the recent U.S.
budgetary process.
Looking ahead and despite any current market uncertainties we remain very optimistic on our potential in this market due to the increasing electronics in military applications the continued acceleration of spending in developing geographies and the coming upgrades of commercial aircraft platforms.
We expect demand in the military aerospace market to strengthen in the second quarter.
I look forward to our technology leadership driving continued expansion of Amphenol's leading market position into the future.
The industrial market represented 13% of our sales in the quarter and sales increased an excellent 49% from prior year and 3% from the fourth quarter.
We continued to benefit in the first quarter from a recovery in virtually all segments of the industrial markets as well as from the momentum generated by our new high-technology products.
In particular sales grew strongly in alternative energy oil and gas factory automation as well as instrumentation segments supported especially by strong progress in the high-growth markets of China and India.
We expect the industrial market to strengthen further in the second quarter and are optimistic that our efforts in the many diverse segments of this market will continue to drive growth into the future.
The automotive market represented 8% of sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased a strong 26% from prior year and 11% sequentially as we expanded our participation in many new electronics applications in both traditional and hybrid electric vehicles and also took advantage of continued growth in automotive volumes.
We continue to broaden our range of high-value automotive interconnect solutions and are especially excited by the new strength created by the Santome [ph] acquisition.
There is some risk of Japan-related slowdowns in vehicle production in the coming quarter.
Excluding this however we expect our sales to increase in the second quarter as our participation in new electronics and hybrid vehicles continues to expand.
Sales into the broadband and hybrid-fiber coax communication market represented 7% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased 11% from prior year and strengthened only slightly sequentially as we did not ultimately experience the expected seasonal pickup in activity in the United States cable market.
We expect demand in the broadband market to remain at these levels in the second quarter as cable operators continue to restrain capital spending in the short term.
The information technology and data communications market represented 19% of sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market were flat from prior year and down 5% sequentially as the fourth quarter 2010 pause in IT spending particularly in the networking market continued into the first quarter.
We expect improving conditions in this market in the second quarter and look forward to a more positive demand environment in the second half of 2011 driven especially by expanding requirements for enterprise equipment and our new program wins with advanced technology products all of which position us strongly for continued long-term expansion in the IT datacom [data communications] market.
Sales into the mobile networks market represented 13% of our sales in the quarter and increased 11% from prior year and 8% sequentially.
We benefited in the wireless infrastructure market from an acceleration of wireless build-out to support next-generation mobile services as well as from continued subscriber growth in emerging markets.
We're especially excited by expanding opportunities for our interconnect products and antennas in the many newly upgraded base-station systems and look forward to a continued growth across all the broad geographies that we serve.
We expect continued momentum in this market in the second quarter and look forward to a positive long-term trend in mobile networks.
The mobile devices market represented 18% of our sales in the quarter and increased a very strong 64% from prior year and were down sequentially by only 7% as our new product launches offset the traditional first quarter seasonality that we had expected.
We benefited especially from the expansion of our technology position on a broad range of rapidly expanding smart mobile devices including especially our expansion of our addition in tablet computers.
We expect sales to increase further in the second quarter as we continue to leverage our comprehensive portfolio of products for mobile devices as well as our preferred supplier relationships with all major device makers.
In sum I'm extremely proud of our organization as we have executed very well in this truly challenging environment.
Despite the unprecedented inflationary pressures and the many market dynamics that we see every day our management team's consistent focus on reacting quickly to changing customer needs while driving always-superior operating margins has resulted in a further strengthening of our market position and a continuation of our industry-leading profitability.
These strong results are a direct result of Amphenol's distinct competitive advantages: our leading technology; our increasing position with customers across our many diverse markets; our worldwide presence; our lean and flexible cost structure; and most importantly an agile entrepreneurial management team.
Looking forward based on a continuation of the current economic trends as well as on constant exchange rates we now expect in the second quarter of 2011 and the full year of 2011 the following results: Sales in the second quarter -- we forecast sales in the second quarter of $985 million to $1 billion and for the full year $3 955 000 000 to $4 billion respectively.
And we forecast EPS in the range of $0.76 to $0.78 in the second quarter and $3.05 to $3.11 for the full year.
We've not experienced thus far any significant negative impact to our business from the natural disasters in Japan.
However our guidance does not reflect any possible disruption to the electronics supply chain that could arise.
Despite any of these challenges I am extremely confident in the ability of Amphenol's outstanding organization to capitalize on the many opportunities that we see to further expand both our market position and our profitability.
At this time operator we would be very happy to entertain any questions that there may be.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Jim Suva with Citi.
The question I have is on the Department of Defense the I guess hesitation for them to pass it.
Did that impact some of the Q1 or Q2 guidance? And are these long lead-time projects that really don't kind of turn off and on? And is there any impact or none? I'm just trying to understand as in the newspapers we read about Washington DC debating and continually pushing off and on and on and on about passing that budget.
Can you walk us through the impact to your company from this? As it's I believe been maybe 15 or 20 years since we've had the budget be such a long drawn-out process.
No Jim it's a very good question.
I think as I mentioned previously we certainly saw that customers were more hesitant to place orders in the first quarter because of the uncertainty surrounding the budget.
We saw this if you will recall back at the last time we had a presidential election.
And I think this was not any different than that situation that we saw.
And I think now that there is a budget we see a positive outlook as I mentioned for the second quarter.
These programs that are long term none of the budget discussions today have really impacted them.
And the most important is that vis-à-vis Amphenol we have such a broad position across every program that we are not dependent on one or another program to get today funding tomorrow funding or the next day funding.
It was really in this case that our customers were just more cautious in terms of where they placed their orders.
They don't want to extend themselves without knowing what is in the end going to be funded or in fact whether the government will have funding at all.
Okay.
And as a quick follow-up I noticed that the -- actually the last two acquisitions have been in the automotive space.
And traditionally I think of Amphenol not being a huge major player in automotive space.
Is the automotive sector now more of a focus than maybe it was a few years ago? Well I think our focus in general in acquisitions has always been and that has not changed to look for companies that have exciting new technologies and markets where there are also strong adoption of new technologies happening.
It's very true that automotive has not been for us a significant market.
It is still just 8% of sales.
At the same time we have seen and that has helped to propel the growth organically in our automotive business a real adoption of new technologies into cars.
And some of these new technologies come to us as attractive technologies where we would want to participate where our interconnect technologies can add value.
And that's where we believe we -- those would be good returns for us.
If we look as an example of hybrid and we have talked before many times that we have not participated in the broad automotive wire harness.
At the same time as cars transition to a hybrid drive chain they require more harsh environment more knowledge of high-power.
Those are the things where Amphenol has traditionally had an outstanding leadership position in technology.
These acquisitions that we have made the one at the end of last year which was in RF technology this one in the real sort of transforming area of lighting technology are both areas which are not general automotive but rather consistent with our ongoing strategy of niche high-technology applications in the car.
To the extent that there is a continued adoption of new technologies in cars I certainly would not tell you that we would shy away from finding other high-technology applications of our products in automotive.
By virtue of it being automotive it does not scare us away.
What we don't like is things where our technology has no value and appreciation from the customer.
Our next question is from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Adam you've had roughly 30% year-over-year increase in the price of copper both in the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year.
You've achieved very strong conversion margins despite this significant headwind.
However as we look to 2Q and potentially similar raw material price headwinds why are we looking for somewhat lower conversion margins? Should we attribute this sort of 5-point delta in conversion margins mostly to revenue mix? Any color you could share would be helpful.
Sure.
Perhaps I can give you an answer to that Wamsi.
I think that as you pointed out I mean the company has a great long-term track record of achieving very strong profitability.
And certainly the profitability that we did achieve in the first quarter is something that we feel very good about 19.8% ROS.
As you say it was 24% conversion margin over last year.
And these are certainly very excellent accomplishments in any environment.
But particularly as you point out in the current environment which is really I think unprecedented from the pace and amount of the acceleration of these cost pressures.
We as a management team remain very committed to the goal of 25% conversion margins.
Certainly a goal that you're familiar with.
We've had it for quite some time.
And I think that then means that we are committed to further margin expansion in the future as the company grows.
However given the current global cost environment we believe that margin expansion in the near term is going to be more difficult and therefore when we look at the guidance and think that it just makes more sense to be more prudent in the short term and to think more about the company maintaining this very strong level of profitability that we've been able to achieve.
And this really is the thought process that's reflected in the current guidance and therefore it's true to say that the conversion margin that you may have computed as inherent in our guidance is more in the low 20s and not the 25% -- 24% 25% that we were able to achieve in the first quarter.
As a management team we continue to be very committed to maximizing the profitability of the company irrespective of whatever obstacles may present themselves.
Although it is true that all of these goals become more challenging as the profitability levels get higher and as these cost increases just continue to accelerate.
And so as a management team I mean we certainly continue to work very aggressively as we have done in the past to pursue both pricing and cost reduction actions to maximize the profitability of the company in the future.
Okay.
Thanks Diana.
And as a quick follow-up on a separate note for the acquisition that you guys just closed in April can you talk about what the growth rate of that business is that you anticipate and what the margin profile is of the business relative to your current business? Yes I think -- I mean this is about a $50 million business.
We closed it sort of partway through April.
So there's maybe $10 million or so that's included in the Q2 guidance and a little bit more than that in the 2 outlying quarters.
I think from a profitability perspective this is one I would say that would more -- be a little bit lower than perhaps our average.
But we see good potential both from a growth perspective and from a profitability perspective with this Santome [ph] company.
I think that Adam has mentioned already the type of products that Santome [ph] is involved in.
And we're certainly very excited about the growth potential for these type of products in the automotive market.
Our next question is from Sherri Scribner with Deutsche Bank.
Thank you.
I wanted to get a little bit of sense of your thinking in terms of the fiscal '11 guidance.
It looks like you took your revenue guidance above where your prior range was but you really didn't change the EPS that much.
You just seem to just tighten up the range.
So I'm trying to understand is that baking in some of the acquisitions and then potentially some limited profitability? But just trying to understand the thinking there for the guidance.
Yes I think the guidance -- we go through a very bottoms-up process in terms of the way we look at our business each quarter so I would just put that out there.
But I think that the guidance in general reflects the inclusion of this acquisition that we did and so that is reflected in the new guidance.
And of course it would not have been reflected in the old guidance.
It also reflects the stock buyback that was done in the quarter which would also -- would not have been reflected in the old guidance that we gave last quarter and other than that reflects what we see the potential is for performance of the company for the rest of the year.
Okay.
And then just following up on the automotive segment we heard a lot of detail about shortages and some supply disruptions in the automotive segment but your guidance seems to suggest you're still positive on that segment.
You're expecting increasing sales.
But you did mention that there is some risk to Japan.
So just wanted to get your thoughts around what the potential risk is there and what you're seeing in terms of supply disruption.
No as I said we have not seen to our business whether related to automotive or otherwise any meaningful impact relative to Japan.
I think as I have gone around and talked with customers around the world in a variety of our markets none have been able and none are willing to or see the need to say anything tangible in terms of what the impact will be.
The fact is is everybody is working very hard to offset any problems that can come.
It appears that of any industry is the automotive on a broad basis is impacted more especially among Japanese automakers where we have very limited if any exposure.
In terms of that specific market going into the second quarter again we have not heard anything specific from customers.
We have not seen any reductions in forecast or downgrades to the outlook.
And in fact what we see is that many of the new niche electronics applications in cars continue to have strong momentum.
At the same time it is still I think for many too early to say whether some of these products that come out of Japan whether they'd be semiconductors or other things whether those could have some impact onto the broader supply chain.
That's something that despite many questions that we've asked to customers we don't have any real visibility on it this stage.
It does not appear today that there will be anything really meaningful for the company.
The next question is from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Just first question is a clarification on the share repurchase 2 aspects.
What should we see the share count in the second quarter? Just really trying to judge the timing of the share repurchase activity in the March quarter.
And was there any share repurchase done in April as well? Sure.
I think that there was more activity towards the end of the quarter so the Q1 diluted share count as you implied doesn't fully reflects all of the stock buyback that was done.
I think that the Q2 would be somewhere in the 175 million range from a diluted share count.
And that would reflect what we did in the first quarter and the smaller amount that fell into the beginning of Q2.
Okay.
Were the equity awards greater than normal to start of the year? No there were option exercises that occurred toward -- some towards the end of the fourth quarter that were more fully reflected in the weighted average shares count in Q1.
And then you've got always some impact from changes in the share price as you know with the mathematics of the way the diluted calculation works.
The next question is from Matt Sheerin with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Yes thanks.
A question for you Adam on the mobility segment.
You seem to be -- continue to be very bullish on that market especially in the tablet space.
Obviously there is one clear winner in tablets right now but we're seeing entrants of many different vendors in that market.
How do you see that playing out? How are you positioned with the multiple players? And how do you prioritize your capacity and your attention given that we likely will see some winners and losers in that market? This is an excellent question Matt.
Thank you very much.
We are not treating this any differently than we have our long-term strategy for mobile devices.
And that is very simple: We don't pick winners.
We are not trying to pick who is going to be successful who is -- which product is going to get fanfare in the marketplace which will be adopted more or less heavily by consumers.
Rather what we do in this business and that's why -- we do this very much as a mobile device business is our goal is to get the broadest print position on the most platforms as possible using the lowest cost R&amp;D and tooling as we can.
And that has been very successful for us for many years in terms of participating and being able to participate on kind of the winning devices.
We also have participated on the losing devices and that is certainly the case.
And I think here we will continue to follow that.
We will get the broadest position possible.
We will have quick-turn designs.
We will do this all in low-cost areas.
And we will just try our hardest to make sure that we are on every platform.
And many of those will be losers and some will be winners and all of them will have some content from Amphenol.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then just a follow-up on the question regarding the military business and orders.
Since the budget was passed have you seen a return to normal order patterns from your customers? I wouldn't say that there has been any big change.
I mean this was just passed a couple of weeks ago and as you may know the government does not operate necessarily as quickly as private enterprises do.
And so we have not seen any meaningful change.
There are maybe some small sign that I think people are feeling a little bit better I think in general.
The people -- the communications of the people say "Okay now the budget has passed.
We can get back to our normal daily duties." And those daily duties will at some stage also involve placing orders to our vendors.
I think clearly over time that will have a positive effect.
And that's why we do look forward in the second quarter to a more positive outlook for the military/aerospace market.
I think in general the trends that we have seen in this market which in particular is the increasing adoption of electronics that has not slowed by any means with any government budgetary issues.
We see just more and more every day the adoption by military contractors by the U.S.
and foreign military the emerging markets of new technologies that help them to adapt to the new demands that are really in the world today.
And these new technologies whether they be unmanned vehicles whether they be new RF detection systems in cars new communication systems these are really accelerating in their prevalence.
And if there is a short-term budgetary delay in placing orders that does not at all take away from the real imperative that is there.
It's very much analogous to what we are seeing in many other markets where there is this real acceleration of technology adoption.
And I think in many respects the military around the world is playing catch-up there.
The other element of that market that is important to emphasize is about a quarter of our sales are to the commercial aero [aerospace] market.
And there clearly we have seen strong performance on a year-over-year basis and see still good progress in that market on a sequential basis.
And we're very hopeful and that is not just a misplaced hope that there will be good momentum in that market as we go through this year into next year as the new airplane platform is very highly fuel-efficient.
New planes that are being released really start to have production volumes behind them and as we start to participate on a broader basis in these new commercial air platforms again with new more high technology interconnect products.
Our next question is from William Stein with Crédit Suisse.
Thanks.
Most of my questions have been answered but I just want to dig into Japan yet again just to make sure I understand.
You haven't seen any impact thus far and your guidance doesn't contemplate any demand hiccup going forward.
Is that right Adam? That's correct.
And are there any opportunities for share gain around disruptions? I think one of your competitors had perhaps some production delays owing to some factory damage.
Are there any opportunities for share gain there? Yes I mean look we're certainly not trying to capitalize on a natural disaster here.
At the same time Japan is a relatively small footprint for us and there have clearly been instances where customers have come to us to seek replacements of products that they need in the short term.
Whether that translates into a long-term share gain I think that's too early to say.
Clearly there will be in Japan a significant reconstruction effort.
And I mean I have heard numbers in the hundreds of millions being talked about here.
And that is a large stimulus program that will come in and of itself.
And I'm sure there will be elements of that that come into the markets that we serve: the industrial market the wireless infrastructure market the aerospace market.
So long term any reconstruction -- and I am very very confident that with the resiliency of Japan the economy and the people of Japan that they will reconstruct and they will no doubt build it bigger and better and higher technology than it was built in the past.
And do we stand to be an enabler of that reconstruction and thereby benefit from it? I think long term we certainly would.
Vis-à-vis short-term share gains there may be some odd things.
But I -- that's not something that's fairly -- that we are counting on even if we are there to support the customers.
Thanks for that clarification.
And then if I could just dig into the cable segment a little bit margins have been declining for the last few quarters there.
Can you -- and I'm aware you're not really the price setter in this market but can you give us maybe an update as to both demand pricing and other trends going on in that market for you? Sure.
I mean this was one market where this quarter we clearly were disappointed in terms of the end market demand.
We had expected demand to go up as it usually does in the first quarter.
I mean that has been for a long time seasonally the first quarter where you would see an increase in build-out and demand and we just simply did not see that this quarter.
And I think that is arising out of a real reluctance on the part of especially the U.S.
cable operators to spend capital.
Whether that is because of different competition that they have different take up rates whatever that is that maybe we are not so close to -- but there are clearly was some restraining of capital spending.
Vis-à-vis the pricing environment I have to tell you that we certainly look forward to the market leader always being aggressive in pricing when you have seen these increases in raw materials that have come.
While there were some announced pricing actions the actual implementation of those pricing actions was much less than one would have expected.
We're still hopeful.
We're very hopeful that there will be discipline in the market.
And as always we will be there within an extraordinarily short time to follow on any pricing activity from the market leader.
And that's something that they can be very confident in and that the market should be confident in.
The next question is from Amitabh Passi with UBS.
Thank you.
Adam I just had a sort of a related question on the Cable Products segment.
What is the strategic imperative to you sort of remain committed to the segment? The segment used to be 20%-plus-ish years ago.
We're now under 7% margin dilutive.
I think you've got a relatively small scale and it just seems to be much more seasonal and susceptible to commodity cost moves.
I'm just wondering from your perspective what the rationale is to sort of remain engaged in this segment.
Sure.
Well it's actually quite simple.
I mean we seek to work everywhere where the Internet is being enabled.
And if you look in the United States in particular broadband or the cable market is really still the predominance of how people access to the Internet through broadband.
And we are not placing bets.
We are not betting whether someone is going to get their Internet through cable or through DSL or through broadband over power through LTE through WiMAX whatever it may be.
It's not our business to bet on which is going to be successful.
It's our business to participate across all of those.
It's true.
I mean this market today is dilutive from a profitability standpoint.
It is also much smaller than it ever was before.
And in terms of kind of the impact on the total company at 7% of sales it's much less.
And I think our technology position in the cable market has allowed us on interconnect products to really achieve strong technology positions on the equipment and there is a lot of new equipment upgrades that go into this in the broadband market.
And that is something that we feel has been an excellent strategy of the company for some years now.
Going forward we remain committed to stay as part of the enabler of that broadband as again as part of the mix of how people get Internet to their homes.
We believe that broadband Internet access is an important market for the interconnect industry and for our industry and we want to be a part of each element of it.
Got it.
And then just maybe a follow-up for Diana.
Your balance sheet right now at a leverage ratio of about 1x any contemplation or thought maybe to increase your leverage by tapping into your revolving credit facility and continue to buy shares more aggressively? Yes.
I mean I think you've seen what we've done in the first quarter relative to the buyback of stock.
I think that we from a prioritization of using that balance sheet strength that you referred to is still #2.
Certainly the acquisition program would be the #1.
But clearly stock buyback represents a good option certainly to return value to shareholders.
You saw us do that in the first quarter.
Even after the purchases that we've made we still remain about 1.5 million to 2 million shares higher than we were at the time we stopped our last buyback program just before the global recession hit towards the end of 2008.
And so I think that from a prioritization standpoint both acquisitions and share buybacks will continue to be an important part of the picture for us.
The next question is from Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Yes thank you and Adam just a follow-up on that last question any read-through in terms of the size of the buyback activity in Q1 versus acquiring a company with $50 million in sales in terms of what the M&amp;A environment looks like in opportunities going forward? No I mean we are very happy to have completed another acquisition.
We completed several acquisitions last year and the year before and we continue to really incubate a very strong pipeline of deals for the future.
Again I've said this many times we are not going to predict when we will close the next deal how many deals we will close what value of those deals will have for the future.
But there is no question that Amphenol is positioned continues to be positioned will be positioned as really the acquirer of choice in this industry.
As we go out and I go out and meet with companies in -- both large and small there is a real warmness and an open arms towards people saying "We want to be part of Amphenol." Our organizational structure and entrepreneurial managers the general managers my group executives that is a very hospitable environment for companies to become a part of.
When they become a part of Amphenol it is really a seamless transition for them.
I mean I spoke just 1 day afterwards to the general manager of our newest company and he feels just right at home because he gets to continue to run his business yet he gets to avail himself of really the opportunities around the company now that he is part of a global company.
And I think that example every time plays out for those entrepreneurs who at the end decide to sell to Amphenol.
Obviously others want to do acquisitions and we are not always going to win every acquisitions.
We are certainly not going to pay the highest price for every acquisition.
And these acquisitions can sometimes take a very long time to develop and to incubate and develop the mutual trust that is required in a relationship to in the end decide really to get married.
So what that will be this year what that will be next quarter that I'm not going to be able to forecast for you.
But I can tell you that we continue to have a very active engagement in developing our acquisition pipeline a strong pipeline.
And there is a lot of companies in this industry that are attractive that have a unique technologies that have broad application across our global customer base.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
A follow-up for Diana just on the current margin environment.
The opportunity on pricing and ability to pass through what are you seeing out there? Yes.
I think that the entire team in every market with every customer spending certainly a tremendous amount of time on pricing to ensure that we get the maximum price for the technology that we bring to the customer.
I think each individual market has its own dynamic.
Certainly there aren't any customers out there who are just dying to get a price increase from their vendors.
But by the same token with the environment that we find ourselves in this is a very important part of the puzzle relative to maximizing the profitability of the company.
And so we are certainly both from an executive management standpoint and from an operating management standpoint spending a tremendous amount of time on pricing right now.
Yes I mean let me just say that -- to reiterate this from Diana I mean there is an extreme organizational focus on this.
Pricing is an art.
We have certainly you can always -- to distributors there are the regular price increases but this represents less than 15% of our sales.
And so with these discussions with OEM customers that is a real art and a drive and it takes courage.
And one thing that it takes most importantly and where Amphenol has a strong position is it takes leadership of people who are really involved on both sides of that business both the operational the engineering as well as the customer-facing side.
Our general managers are really our greatest asset in terms of being able to sense the costs going up because they see it every day and then translate that into meaningful discussions with their customers as opposed to just saying "Hey the price goes up a flat number.
We issue that from headquarters." Rather they are able to go in and truly adapt their pricing to the reality of the market that they see.
70 general managers around the world.
They're each taking different strategies.
But 1 thing in common.
It is an extreme focus.
It is in front of everybody's mind.
And no doubt with these commodities having done what they are with the wages in China with the currency you know the renminbi and others there is really fewer and fewer options except to go to the customer with price.
And we're hopeful that we are not the only company in the industry who has that mindset.
The next question is from Amit Daryanani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Thanks.
I just want to follow up on the military/aerospace side.
I think military alone is about 17% of revenues there.
Could you just talk about how much of that is centered around U.S.
Defense versus rest of the world? And do you expect mil/aero generally to be up in line with the 12% revenue both of you guys are guiding for for the full year? Thank you very much Amit.
Essentially you're -- it's about right.
Commercial air represents about a quarter or 22% of sales.
So your math is pretty close there.
Our -- relative to what amount of sales is U.S.
versus others it is largely similar to if you were to look at what amount the U.S.
spends compared to other companies and so clear -- to other countries.
Clearly the U.S.
has the largest expenditures for military and that would accordingly be for us also the largest piece.
That being said we have very very strong position in essentially all of the other global markets where we are as an American company allowed to participate.
That includes in Europe that includes in India where we are really the leader in that extremely fast-growing market.
And so we see that while the U.S.
continues to be very important for us there remain excellent growth opportunities in other areas around the world.
And those growth opportunities may actually be with U.S.
military contractors who are exporting their products.
That we have seen more and more of over the recent years.
Relative to our outlook for the full year we were obviously very pleased that that market grew 27% in this quarter.
And I think we said -- last quarter when we gave our full year guidance that military will be sort of in line with the overall growth of the company and we wouldn't see that to be much different at this stage.
LLC</strong> Got it thanks.
And then just a same question Diana for you.
You guys have done a great job I think generating cash.
You're sitting at close to $700 million now.
And from -- at least the way you are modeling it you would end up with close to $1 billion of cash on hand by the end of the year.
I guess do you -- a will you want to sit on that much cash on your balance sheet? And if not should we expect the pace of buybacks to be around what you did this quarter going forward? Yes I mean I think that we don't somewhat forecast exactly what the buybacks are going to be.
I think we really look on kind of a quarter-to-quarter basis and look at the acquisition pipeline and so forth.
I think that we have a lot of capacity to do both acquisitions and stock buybacks based on the strengths of the balance sheet as you point out.
And I think that you've seen what we've done here in the first quarter relative to that.
And I think you can expect to see some of both as we move along to 2011.
Your next question is from Steve O'Brien with JPMorgan.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can we talk a little bit more about industrial? I mean the growth there is -- it was remarkable in the first quarter.
The end markets are very diverse.
With maybe macro indicator like oil being $115 a barrel how do you see that impacting the piece parts and the growth trends here going forward when you look at sort of transportation oil and gas? Is it inhibitor or potentially a positive or sort of neutral? Well I think just to answer the general question our industrial business is a very very diversified business.
It ranges everything from connectors that go into alternative energy solar wind and other to high-speed rail to geophysical to medical to marine entertainment heavy equipment.
It's just a wonderfully diverse marketplace for us and one where we're very excited to see just an ongoing technology adoption happening really in every one of those segments.
Relative to the price of oil and what that can mean it can mean different things to different segments.
I think clearly if you talk about oil exploration you talk about energy generation that can be not a bad thing.
If price of oil is up people are going to dig for more of it but people are also going to try to use less of it.
And so if you dig for more that's more exploration and if you use less that's more alternative energy and more hybrid drives and more efficient power.
So I think either way that's not a bad thing.
I wouldn't tell you though that we have seen our industrial business that is so correlated necessarily to how the price of oil goes up or down in a given short or long term.
We just feel very excited by the real diversity and the outlook of strength that comes across that industrial market.
And as I mentioned earlier we see excellent opportunities in particular in emerging markets.
The infrastructure building that is happening in these emerging markets and you wish on one hand that you would have more infrastructure being built in the U.S.
but you see this infrastructure being built in places like China and India and that is not just roads and bridges and tunnels and airports.
It is totally new rail systems.
It is new energy-generation systems new medical equipment new automation motion-controlled machine tool industry.
And there is just such a broad-base of growth prospects that come in these emerging markets.
And as they adopt these new technologies they are adopting really the latest generation and the latest generation have more and more of this electronic functionality and the stronger drive towards efficient power transmittal.
So do you think it's fair to say that that category is a longer-term outgrower versus the corporate average? Yes.
I think we have seen that certainly over the last 5 6 quarters here.
And as I've mentioned we continue to see strength in the industrial market going forward into the second quarter.
And we feel very good about the fact that those are real strong growth segments going into the future.
The next question is from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Just a brief follow-up.
CapEx any change this year? And second Adam your commentary on kind of the networking market seeing maybe a bottom.
Is that because demand is coming back? Or is it because you're seeing just kind of a completion of just say an inventory drawdown through the supply chain? So from a CapEx standpoint I think we still would expect 3% 3.5% of sales for CapEx for the full year.
So that's really no change I think from what we've done on average historically.
And relative to the networking market which part of our IT datacom -- clearly we saw in the quarter some still some pause in that market in particular.
And I think what you are seeing in the networking market is a couple of things.
One is there were upgrades that happened in the year prior and there are some cycle that comes to that.
More importantly we have seen a real kind of enhanced competitive marketplace in networking where it has been no secret that there have been share shifts that are happening between the networking OEMs and driving price competition different formats different types of networking equipment into the different segments.
And I think that that can certainly have kind of -- or in one instance it can cause some customers to every once in a while say "Well maybe we wait.
We get a better price if we wait a month or 2 to buy that equipment." Because there seems to be some very very aggressive actions between the OEMs and the networking market today.
Thanks a lot.
I show no further questions at this time.
Very good.
Well thank you all again for your continued interest in Amphenol and I'd like to wish you all a very successful and a happy second quarter.
And we look forward to talking to all of you again here in three months.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon my name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome everyone to our second quarter call.
Q2 Results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed Q2 achieving strong growth and beating the high end of the company's expectations.
Sales were $1 018 000 000 and EPS was $0.85 including $0.06 relating to certain acquisition accounting adjustments.
Excluding these items diluted earnings per share was $0.79.
This represents the company's first quarter with sales over $1 billion and represents new record for both sales and earnings per share.
Sales were up 15% in U.S.
dollars and 12% in local currencies over the second quarter of 2010.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and foreign exchange sales in Q2 2011 were up 8% over last year.
Sequentially sales were up to 8% in U.S.
dollars and 6% organically from Q1.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components.
Our cable business which comprised 7% of our sales was up 9% from last year and up 17% from last quarter.
The sales growth from last quarter relates primarily to increased spending in both North America and international broadband markets.
The growth from last year relates primarily to strong demand in South American communications market.
The interconnect business which comprised 93% of our sales was up 15% from last year and 8% sequentially.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income for the quarter was $215 million compared to $176 million last year.
Operating margin was 21.1% compared to 19.8% last year.
Operating income includes income of approximately $18 million relating to an adjustment to reduce a previously recorded contingent payment obligation for a 2010 U.S.-based acquisition.
In accordance with the applicable accounting rules contingent obligations are reassessed based on current performance expectations and adjusted accordingly through operating income.
This adjustment relates primarily to the push out of certain defense-related program to periods beyond this year.
We continue to be excited about the acquisition and expect strong future performance.
Excluding this adjustment operating margin was 19.4% for Q2 2011.
Operating income as net of stock option expense of approximately $7 million this quarter and $6.2 million in the prior year quarter or 0.7% of sales in both quarters.
From a segment standpoint in the cable business margins were 12.8% down from 13.5% last year.
The margin decline relates primarily to higher relative material costs.
From a sequential standpoint cable margins improved from 11.8% in Q1 as a result of higher volume and pricing action.
In the interconnect business margins were 21.6% compared to 22.3% last year.
The lower interconnect operating margins reflect a slight reduction in gross margin as a positive impact of higher volume cost reduction actions and price increases were more than offset by increases in material input cost.
In addition there were costs in the quarter that were somewhat higher as workforce reductions of about 4% were implemented in the areas of the business with slower demand.
Overall we're pleased with the company's operating margin achievement.
Excluding the one-time acquisition adjustment this represents a conversion margin on incremental sales over Q2 2010 of approximately 16%.
While this conversion margin is below our long-term goal the company's overall profitability level continued to be very strong in the face of significant global cost pressures and a mixed demand environment.
We continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control will allow us to react in a fast and flexible manner and achieve strong profitability going forward.
Interest expense for the quarter was $11 million compared to $10 million last year reflecting higher average debt levels from the company's stock buyback program.
Other income was $2 million compared to $0.8 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income on higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
In Q2 the company had an effective tax rate of 27.6% compared to a rate of 21.3% in the second quarter of 2010.
The prior year quarter included a net benefit relating to a reduction in international tax expense primarily due to the favorable outcome of certain tax positions and the completion of prior year tax audits of about $10 million or $0.06 per share.
The 2011 quarter includes tax expense of approximately $6.6 million relating to the $18 million acquisition-related gain.
Excluding this the effective tax rate in Q2 2011 was just under 27%.
We currently expect a rate of about 27% in the second half of this year.
The reduction in the rate from 2010 reflects primarily a lower mix of U.S.
income.
Net income excluding the one-time items was approximately 13.4% of sales in Q2 2011 compared to 13.5% of sales in Q2 2010 a very strong performance.
Diluted earnings per share for Q2 was on -- and as reported basis $0.85 this year and $0.74 last year.
After adjustment for one-time items diluted earnings per share was $0.79 in 2011 and $0.68 in 2010 up 16% from the prior year.
Orders for the quarter were a record 1 007 000 000 up 11% from last year resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 0.99:1.
The company is an excellent generator of cash and cash flow from operations with $105 million in the quarter.
This is approximately 77% of net income for the quarter and 82% for the 6 months.
The computation excludes the one-time acquisition gain.
Operating cash flow in Q2 does reflect higher interest and tax payments in accordance with normal payment schedule.
From a working capital standpoint inventory in the quarter was $600 and -- $42 million at the end of June.
This is up about 4% from March excluding the impacts of acquisition and translation.
Inventory days declined 2 days from March to 83 days.
While we made some progress improving inventory turnover we continue to hold a portion of the inventory build in Q1 and we'll continue to work in the second half to further improve inventory turns.
Accounts receivable was $793 million at the end of June up 4% excluding the impact of exchange and acquisitions and reflecting the sequential sales increase.
Day sales outstanding decreased 2 days to 69 days at the end of June from 71 days at the end of March.
The cash flow from operations along with borrowings under the company's credit and receivables facilities of $209 million and $10 million in proceeds from option exercises were used primarily to fund $23 million in capital expenditures $92 million in acquisition-related expenditures relating to both the previously announced acquisition in April of an automotive interconnect company and a performance-based payment for a 2010 acquisition.
We also made payments to noncontrolling shareholders of $27 million to purchase the remaining shareholder interest and cash and cash investments increased $5 million in the quarter.
In addition the company purchased 3.2 million shares of its stock for $172 million in the quarter under the company's stock buyback plan.
We have approximately 13.4 million shares remaining under that plan and as you may recall the plan expires in January of 2014.
At the end of the quarter cash and short-term cash investments were $697 million the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
And debt was $1 158 000 000.
Net debt therefore was $461 million at the end of the quarter.
In late June we completed an amendment to our $1 billion revolving credit facility to extend the maturity 2 years to July 2016 and reduce the pricing-to-market rates.
This amendment results in a more staggered debt maturity schedule for the company and the current borrowing level will save about $5.5 million a year in interest expense.
At June 30 the company had availability under its facility of $537 million.
The company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remained very strong at 1.26x and 22x respectively.
And EBITDA for Q2 was approximately $237 million.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent quarter.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business.
Well thank you very much Diana and I'd like to also extend my welcome to all of you here on the phone today.
I'll spend a few moments to highlight our second quarter achievements then I plan to discuss the trends and the progress in our served markets and then I'll close with some comments on our outlook for the third quarter and the full year of 2011.
The second quarter was a record quarter for Amphenol as we achieved quarterly sales of more than $1 billion for the first time in the company's history.
We are very pleased that despite continued uncertainty in the economy we were able to exceed the high end of our guidance in both sales and earnings per share with revenues growing 15% from prior year and 8% sequentially to $1 018 000 000 and EPS reaching the record $0.79 excluding one-time items.
And although we continue to face significant cost challenges around the world the Amphenol operating team executed extremely well in the quarter achieving these operating margins of 19.4%.
We're especially proud that our net margins reached 13.4% of sales which remains a clear reflection of the financial strength of Amphenol.
The strong cash flow of $105 million in the quarter which was used in part for the continuation of our stock buyback program is another excellent sign of Amphenol's financial strength.
These results are clear and direct reflection of the strength and discipline of Amphenol's agile and entrepreneurial team of more than 70 general managers and group executives around the world.
Turning to the trends and the progress in our served markets.
The Military Aerospace market represented 21% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased 20% from prior year benefiting from an accelerated growth of our products sold into Commercial Aero programs as well as from the contributions from the Borisch acquisition.
On a sequential basis sales were up slightly with Military sales relatively flat from the first quarter as defense contractors continue to be cautious in placing orders.
This was offset by stronger demand in the Commercial Aero market.
In light of continued budget uncertainties as well as normal third quarter seasonality we expect sales in the third quarter to moderate particularly in the Military market.
Although we have a positive outlook for the Commercial Aero market as jet liner volumes increase and as new programs take flight in the second half of 2011.
Longer term we're extremely confident that our technology leadership will drive continued expansion of Amphenol's market position into the future as we continue to expand our potential in the many new electronics applications that are emerging in the Military and Aerospace market.
The industrial market represented 13% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a very strong 21% from prior year and an excellent 11% from the first quarter as we capitalized on the many exciting new technology opportunities in the global industrial market.
Our progress is continuing to accelerate in emerging markets including especially in China and India.
And we saw excellent performance in the factory automation oil and gas instrumentation as well as the heavy equipment segments of the industrial market.
While we expect this market to moderate seasonally in the third quarter we remain very optimistic that our efforts in the many diverse segments of the industrial market will continue to drive strong growth into the future.
Sales in the Automotive market represented 8% of our total this quarter and sales there increased a very strong 55% from prior year and 20% sequentially.
As we benefited from the continued expansion of our participation in new electronics applications in both traditional and hybrid-electric vehicles and as we benefited as well from the recent Santome [ph] acquisition.
We are continually broadening our range of high-technology Automotive interconnect solutions to capitalize on the many new electronics applications in vehicles.
In addition we are very encouraged by our expanding geographical diversification in this important automotive market.
Although we expect normal seasonal moderation of the Automotive market in the third quarter we remain very excited about the many opportunities for future growth in both traditional and hybrid vehicle applications.
The Broadband market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in Broadband were stronger than expected in the second quarter rising 15% sequentially and down only slightly from prior year as build-out activity increased in the U.S.
cable market and as operator investment accelerated in Latin America and other emerging markets.
We expect demand in the Broadband market to further strengthen in the third quarter as we continue to expand our technology offering to this very important market.
The Information Technology and Data Communications market represented 19% of our sales in the quarter.
While sales were down 3% from prior year we were very pleased to experience 9% sequential growth in the IT market as we were able to capitalize on renewed demand for our advanced interconnect products used in particular in networking and storage equipment.
We continued to see accelerating in customer demand for higher performance equipment that is to support rapidly expanding IP video and other bandwidth-hungry applications many of which are being driven in part by the proliferation of new data-intensive mobile Internet devices.
We expect demand in the IT market to further improve in the third quarter and beyond as we take advantage of new design wins with our high-technology products across a broad array of IT customers as well as equipment platforms.
The mobile networks market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased slightly from prior year and were flat sequentially as operators in certain geographies paused their wireless build-out activities.
Nevertheless we are excited by the expanding opportunities that we see for our interconnect products and antennas in the many newly upgraded base-station systems and we look forward to continued growth across all the broad geographies that we serve.
We expect demand to be stable in this market in the third quarter and we look forward to a positive long-term trend in mobile networks as network operators upgrade their systems to support the explosive growth of new smartphones and tablets.
The Mobile Devices market represented 19% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased a very strong 36% from prior year and increased sequentially by 11% as we capitalized on our expanded product position in new smart mobile devices.
We are especially excited that our successful product and customer diversification drive has positioned us to participate in the expanding market for these devices whether standard handsets smartphones or tablet computers.
We expect sales in the Mobile Device market to increase further in the third quarter as we continue to leverage our comprehensive portfolio of products for mobile devices as well as our preferred supplier relationships with all major device makers.
In summary I'm extremely proud of our organization as we have executed very well in this tremendously challenging environment.
These strong results are a direct result of our distinct and resilient competitive advantages our leading technology our increasing position with customers in diverse markets our worldwide presence a lean and flexible cost structure and most importantly an agile entrepreneurial management team.
Although there are unprecedented inflationary pressures as well as uncertainties in several end markets I have tremendous confidence in the Amphenol management team in such an environment.
We will continue to excel by reacting quickly to our changing customer needs to further strengthen our market position and we will continue to drive proactive actions to secure our leading operating margin.
Most importantly it is our commitment as a management team to pursue these results with the level of passion and effectiveness that ensures the continued superior performance of Amphenol.
Now looking forward into the third quarter and the remainder of 2011 and based on the continuation of current economic trends and constant exchange rates we now expect the following: Sales in the third quarter in the range of $1 billion to $1 015 000 000 and for the full year 2011 $3 975 000 000 to $4 005 000 000 respectively.
Our earnings per share we expect in the range of $0.77 to $0.79 for the third quarter and $3.07 to $3.11 for the full year respectively.
Despite the many uncertainties that are in the economy today I am extremely confident in our ability of our organization to build on these new record results by capitalizing on the many opportunities that we see to further expand both our market position as well as our strong financial performance.
Thank you very much and at this time operator we'd be very happy to entertain any questions that might be there.
We'll take the next question from William Stein with Crédit Suisse.
I'm hoping you can give us a bit of clarity on the mix of Military versus Commercial Aerospace in that end market.
And then I have a follow-up if that's okay.
Sure.
Well Commercial Aero represents now roughly about 1/4 of that business.
And as I said we are very excited to see real progress in Commercial Aero and we have really great outlook for that market going forward.
I was actually just last month at Paris Air Show and I think we saw at that air show just record orders for new jet liners.
There's a tremendous momentum that seems behind the Commercial Aero market today and I think that gives us a lot of optimism leading forward.
Even this morning I think the largest aircraft order in history was placed just this morning to both Boeing and Airbus.
So we feel very very good about that Commercial Aero market.
And the new technologies that are embedded in these new aviation platforms are something that we feel very well positioned to take advantage of for the future and really look forward to that market going forward.
I appreciate that.
We've heard the same thing certainly but obviously less robust in the defense end market.
I think we all know that the total budget if you consider the supplemental piece is likely to shrink.
And as you consider your end market exposure in this end market that you grouped together with Commercial Aerospace and as you consider everything else maybe you could help us understand as the company may want to shift its end market exposure to get a little bit more exposure to the more rapidly growing or better positioned end markets how do you think about the pace of that through either M&amp;A or organic adjustments and how you're targeting accounts in end markets? Look I mean we are everyday adjusting our resources based on the opportunities.
And certainly we recognize that defense budgets are under pressure.
I mean our country does not appear to be able to make a budget let alone to say what that budget will be.
So clearly we thought in the first quarter that with the budget passing that that would bring some relief and that the orders would begin to become more strongly.
Clearly now with all the governmental negotiations in the background the budgets have not yet been released and there continues to be a tremendous amount of uncertainty in that market.
Long term with the Military market we're still extremely committed to that market.
We believe that there is and we continue to see that there is a tremendous explosion of electronics activities in that market.
We are participating still on all the major platforms and really enabling these new electronics.
In addition I've spoken about it in the past that Military is not just a U.S.
a U.K.
or Western Europe phenomenon.
We see a lot of opportunities in the Military market.
In the long term in emerging markets and we are very well positioned to take advantage of those.
But obviously we will continually adjust our sort of feet on the street the engineering resources the sales resources all across the board to attack those growth opportunities and that's the beauty of Amphenol.
The beauty of the agility of our organization is such that we are not sort of locked in organizationally to one or another market or segment within that market.
We're constantly reapportioning people to go after the growth segments.
And within the Military there continues to be very very strong growth segments.
Things like unmanned aerial vehicles things like upgraded communication systems the new jetliner new avionics systems and these are still areas of the Military where we see tremendous strength.
And obviously we reapportion our engineering our technology development our sales resources very rapidly to sort of redeploy onto these exciting opportunities.
And with that I'm very confident that regardless of what will happen long term with the budgets we're going to continue to be very very well positioned in that market.
The next question will come from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America.
Adam you always proactively adjusted your workforce and going back to '08 you were one of the first to cut fairly deeply and sharply very quickly.
As you have done some workforce reduction here in the quarter is that more of an effort to cope with material cost pressures that you have cited as sort of at historical highs or are you seeing something on the horizon more from a demand perspective that sort of made you take this action? No I think Diana mentioned that we took headcount reduction in certain end markets where we did not see the demand coming.
That's how we act.
We are not running the company monolithically.
So we have certain operations that saw not the expectation.
The expectations that they had were not really realized and so clearly we take very quick and proactive measures in those operations to reduce the headcount and in this case especially in light of the fact that some of that expectation was in western markets where you have defense-related with more western headcount that's an area where we took very proactive measures and that certainly has some cost to it.
But we are going to continue to constantly readjust our workforce at the operating unit level subject to what the demand profiles are in those markets.
I mean we are very proud of the total growth of the company to grow as we did on a quarter-to-quarter basis in excess of our original expectations.
But there were some parts of the company that didn't and they're going to take the actions that are necessary to secure also their margins.
And just as a quick follow-up could you comment about when through the course of the quarter most of those workforce reduction happened.
Was it more towards the end of the quarter or was it sort of seasonally spread through the course of the quarter? They were more towards the end of the quarter and we will have some further actions that would probably be taken at the beginning of this quarter or around now.
So they were not taken at the beginning of last quarter.
The next question will come from Jim Suva with Citi Bank.
When you guys look at the Department of Defense budget and when you think about the projects coming in or being placed on hold is there a impact to the company's margin profile the way that you think about -- a lot of people think about Military being more profitable than say a cellphone or something can we talk about that a little bit? Yes.
I think Jim I mean we make good margin on all of our products.
I mean there are sometimes different mix.
I mean if you look at the North American sort of base markets the margins may be slightly higher but the tax rates are also higher.
So I think on a net-net basis when we look at contribution to profitability there's not a significant difference.
One significant difference though is I think that Adam just mentioned is when we do have to take action relative to volume levels those actions are a little bit more expensive clearly in developed markets and the things we do those in developed markets tend to be more on things like defense.
So I think that that certainly there is a little bit of pressure as I mentioned in the prepared comments from materials and also from the cost of taking these actions on margin.
Great and a quick follow-up.
You guys are in a great position with basically all-time high cash levels and I know it's probably burning a hole in Diana's pockets since interest rates are so low.
But Adam's probably trying to go about the M&amp;A world pretty disciplined.
Can you talk about that a little bit as to spend a little bit of time since Amphenol has made an acquisition? And has the pipeline the pricing gone up a little bit more or are you being a little more cautious or has the pipeline slowed down a little bit? How should we think about acquisitions as your company has been really really strong at integrating acquisitions? Clearly acquisitions remain for us a very very high priority in terms of the use of our cash and Diana has talked about that in the past.
I mean that's clearly our top priority.
But as we have mentioned many times the sequencing and the timing of these acquisitions is always impossible to predict.
We are clearly focused very hard and it's not just me it's Diana it's really our management team on finding and executing upon those acquisitions that are available to us and I think our pipeline today is extremely strong.
We are very very pleased that there are opportunities out there.
Our pricing for acquisitions has it gone up has it gone down? It really depends on the individual case it depends what type of a seller you have.
It depends on what type of universe of buyers you have.
And there's no question that private equity companies can borrow more money today than they can 2 years ago.
Does that make their price that they're willing to pay go up? Yes.
Does that always impact us? No.
Because we are incubating these deals in many cases over a long time period we're having a real kind of ongoing dialogue.
In the end we are going to pay a fair price and we're not going to win every acquisition but we have won over the last decade more than 50 of them and we are very very optimistic that going forward we will continue to have them.
Will they come in the second quarter and the third quarter and the fourth quarter? I mean that we cannot predict for you Jim.
But I can tell you that that does not at all change in terms of the prioritization of our use of cash in the company.
Next question will come from Sherri Scribner with Deutsche Bank.
I just wanted to ask a little bit about the guidance.
It looks -- looking at it it's largely in line.
It looks like for the fiscal year you've rolled through to beat this quarter into the fiscal year guidance.
So really no change in essentially in-line guidance.
It seems like you're cautious on a number of the segments Military Aerospace and some of the other segments.
I wanted to get a sense of what you're seeing in the market is there any particular segment that is weaker than any other and are you seeing any inventory build ups in any of your segments? Yes.
I mean look the beauty of our company is we are very diversified and the diversification of Amphenol has always been really -- not just a real strategy of our management team but a real asset for the company.
And there's no question.
In any given quarter some markets can be stronger than others and you see that in the consistency of the results.
But clearly within each market there can be ups and downs.
I think as we sit today I won't repeat myself from all the markets that I talked about because I talked through each of those where we see them but clearly there are ones like mobile phones IT where we feel that there is a good momentum Automotive has good momentum Industrial has a good momentum.
We wish that the government would have a quicker ability to make budgets and thereby could get rid of some of the caution in the defense industry feel strong about Commercial Aero.
I mean there is a real diverse in these markets.
Overall I think to your question with an overall sense I am not a macroeconomist so I'm not going to tell you my views on the economy but I can tell you that we continue to believe that the opportunities in our industry and the opportunities in the electronics industry are fabulous.
And those are really fabulous long-term because we see that there is a real revolution of electronics being proliferated into all aspects of life.
And so whether that be in a fighter jet or in a smartphone the new functionalities that are being driven and really being driven by end consumers are creating demand for our products.
And we are matching that with leading technology innovation.
And our technology innovation is accelerating.
It is clearly accelerating as we push the limits of performance on new products in high-speed as we push the limits on power efficiency as we push the limits of products that can be put into harsh environment in ROS environment.
Our technology innovation machine is really running at high speed today to capitalize on those growth segments of the market that we see.
So in overall I feel very good about the market.
I think the economy is going to be what it's going to be and we're going to deal with it as it comes.
And have you seen any inventory buildups anywhere? Is there anything that you're concerned about? No I wouldn't say that we have seen any significant inventory buildups.
Again we don't have full visibility into the warehouses of our customers.
We have some visibility into the distribution channel which is less than 15% of our sales.
And there we haven't seen anything out of the ordinary.
Next question will come from Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Just following up on the defense market a lot of focus on what's happening in the domestic market but it feels also that the international market there are some at least deceleration.
Can you talk about what's happened internationally and then also touch on dollar content in defense? Yes just to answer your last question first.
Did you mean by dollar content -- geographically obviously the U.S.
military budget is -- represents I think more than half if not 2/3 of the worldwide defense budget.
So that's -- and our business is not so different in terms of reflection of total defense budget.
But clearly international is -- there are 2 types of international story.
You have certain western geographies where they are under the similar budget pressures as the United States and you can expect that there will be military budget pressures there as well.
On the other hand the emerging markets places like India places like the Middle East we see real tremendous opportunities in those markets and we're very happy that our positioning in those markets is not just a sort of Johnny come lately kind of a position.
We are very very well entrenched in many of those markets today to participate and believe that from that perspective that can be actually a real help to the business long-term.
Okay.
And if I could follow up with Diana just on the gross margin.
Any help to come on pricing I know the industry has been working to take up pricing to combat the rising commodity costs.
So can you talk about pricing trends you're seeing and expectations in the back half? Sure.
I mean I think that we certainly have worked very hard at pricing over the last 6 to 9 months and certainly had some success with pricing actions in certain markets.
I think that the mix demand environment has made in certain parts of the business pricing harder.
But clearly it continues to be a focus.
I think that when we talked about profitability for this quarter clearly the pressures from a cost perspective more than offset the pricing actions that we were able to realize in the quarter.
I think that our guidance assumes at this point a continuation of the margin levels that we've seen in Q2.
As we move into Q3 we will continue to have some additional costs relating to some of the headcount actions that we will be completing early in Q3.
I think that we would hope that as we move into Q4 that the benefit of these cost reduction actions perhaps pricing and then if the material environment were to stabilize more at these current levels then it maybe in the end that the Q4 expectation that we have from an ROS perspective may prove to be a conservative one.
But I think we feel at this point in time that the guidance that we've given for the second half which essentially incorporate the Q2 ROS levels is the right one to give at this moment.
Steve O'Brien with JPMorgan Chase.
Looking out to the fourth quarter I'm doing -- trying to do my math it appears that there's -- new guidance would imply sort of a 2% sequential increase over the third quarter based on where the third quarter guidance is.
And I know there's various seasonality in different businesses.
Are you seeing -- are you expecting $1 billion from expectations of weaker seasonality in some of the end markets or challenges or you think that sort of 2% is about right? Well I mean I think this is what we see today.
We have a very bottoms up forecasting process and I think that one can go back and look I guess to see what normal Q4 seasonality has then.
I think that one of the Q4 upticks typically from the seasonality's standpoint I think those tend to be in the defense market which tends because it's North American European based to have a more sequentially down Q3 and then a sequentially up Q4.
I think based on the current environment we haven't incorporated that kind of a step up to much of the degree in the guidance.
And so based on the market mix we see right now and this is what we're expecting clearly when we get closer to Q4 and we'll have a better view.
But we think that this is the type of sequential expectation we have at the time.
And regarding the optimism towards in Adam's comments towards IT and mobile networks clearly IT had some sequential momentum this quarter and maybe mobile networks not so much.
But what's the basis for some of this optimism beyond proliferation of electronic devices? I mean are you getting some reads or indications from customers here that bolster your optimism? Just to be clear I think when I talked about our outlook into the third quarter I think I said that mobile infrastructure we expect to be sort of stable with current levels and we expect the Mobile Devices to be up.
So maybe that was just a slight difference.
I think the optimism relative to IT and relative to Mobile Devices is not unrelated.
I think that the proliferation of Mobile Devices is really driving in the IT a kind of a renewal of some spending.
That spending is not across the board.
Clearly there is in IT we saw a couple of quarters in a row where we do not see that kind of sequential strength.
We are very pleased to finally see that this quarter.
And our position especially in networking equipment and storage equipment with high-speed products that has helped us in the second quarter to see that finally the sequential growth.
And we expect to see further sequential growth going into the third quarter as companies continually have to upgrade especially their networking and their storage equipment.
Relative to Mobile Devices I think there is just a real expansion still of smartphones even if there are massive share shift that happened among the various vendors within that market we're very pleased that we participate essentially with all of them and so we're able to enjoy the upside that comes when one or another wins or loses.
And I think in general we're seeing in these smart mobile devices that there is continually an acceleration.
I mean you saw yesterday in the big earnings release of yesterday just how that strong momentum can come in these new devices.
Next question will come from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Hopefully a few brief clarifications.
In terms of the headcount reduction cost that are flowing through the P&amp;L last quarter and this quarter are we talking single-digit millions of dollars or is it tens of millions of dollars that you're dealing with right now? Yes I mean as you know we don't really quantify these things Shawn because we don't like to do these sort of GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
So we only call out things that are really huge and really sort of unusual excuse me.
But I think that you can assume that a portion of sort of this ROS decline relates to this item and I think we also pointed out the fact that we have these material cost increases that are -- that we have not been able to fully offset with our other actions.
And I think those 2 items the cost of the headcount reduction and this net cost that sort of left that we haven't been able to either take out or price through are what has contributed to the ROS change into Q2 versus where we were last year.
And as demand kind of continues to bump along where we're at even with the pricing actions do you think you'll get full offset either with headcount cost reductions or price increases or is this something that you need to see a little bit stronger demand environment to help you out with the pricing? Yes.
I mean I think that our expectation is that with these actions that we're taking on the parts of the business that are experiencing softer demand I mean this certainly should help if materials actually will stabilize not continued to decline.
This certainly will help.
We continue to work on pricing.
I think that some volumes certainly never hurts either.
So I mean I think it's going to be a combination of those things.
I mean we as a management team work extremely hard every day to maximize the performance of the company.
And I think this quarter we achieved new records in 3 areas: orders sales and earnings per share.
We would have loved to achieve new records in ROS also but the environment right now is a little bit more tougher.
So we are continuing to work towards margin expansion as we look down the road.
It's just in the near term certainly it is tougher.
But we have not given up at all on that goal which has been a long-term goal for the company.
Let me also just add that the 19.4% given all that there is in the environment is actually a fantastic achievement for the company but it's not one that we're satisfied with.
And so just to reiterate what Diana said our management team is driving everyday to offset that.
Offset the raw material prices offset the labor increases in China offset the currency shifts that are there.
And clearly that is the real fight.
This is in many ways the battle that they are doing.
But I have a tremendous confidence that our organization as it is is more than 70 general managers each of them being able and empowered to attack every element of cost are going to find a way to do that.
Can that come without volume? That makes it obviously much harder.
But there is a clear commitment around the organization one that Diana and I are driving reviewing really working together with our sleeves up with them to make that happen.
Armit Daryanani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I guess when you guys look at the inflation pressure on both commodity and the weight side I'm curious does it make Amphenol change their thought process around one hedging commodities going forward potentially? And secondly maybe looking to diversify your manufacturing base more aggressively away from China to other geographies.
Just to comment on the first part of the question.
Hedging I mean we -- I think Amit probably have done and maybe we'll continue to do a little bit more prebuying whether you call that a hedge and I don't think that's exactly what your question is aimed at.
I think we just truly believe that you have got to deal on a more permanent basis with these cost increases.
And many of the pressures on commodities seem to some extent to be permanent increases in cost at least in -- since the medium term here.
And so we just feel that overall from an execution standpoint to take that responsibility away from the operating units would be a mistake and it would cause an erosion of overall profitability that would more than offset any benefit we might get as when we would hedge at a headquarters level.
And so we really believe that it's got to come through pricing it's got to come through other cost reduction actions.
Some may be related as your next part of your question goes towards reducing labor cost as an example.
And so I really don't think that with our structure in the entrepreneurial way that we allowed each business unit to be run to layer a hedge on top of that which at some point is a guess in terms of which way commodities are going to go will help us from an overall profitability perspective.
And maybe Adam you want to talk about the second part of the question? Yes.
No question about that.
And relative to China I mean no doubt we are looking at every element of how do we offset these labor increases.
And that can come through automation that can come through driving more efficiencies in the factories and it can come from relocating facilities.
And we have a tremendous effort ongoing to find new places for certain of our facilities and those are really in the middle of progress.
And as you know we don't consolidate all of these facilities.
We have 24 of them around China in different regions.
The good fortune that we have in having done that is that each individual place has different time schedules for increases different dynamics that go along with the cost.
And so as we seek to move production to lower cost either lower cost areas of China or lower cost into different regions it is not such a cataclysmic change where you have to move this monstrous facility.
It is more the ongoing normal course of business movement of production from one facility to another.
That is done on a more sort of business unit level within Amphenol.
And clearly though that is an area where we spend a lot of our focus there are opportunities in other parts of China which we have done extensive reviews of.
And we have actually teams on the ground in several of those places even today looking at new facilities and new places where you can reduce the labor within China.
The thing is China remains for us a significant marketplace.
A lot of our customers are producing in China and in fact the end market of China has become a very significant market for Amphenol.
And so to say that you move out of China and export into China that also doesn't necessarily make a tremendous amount of sense.
But clearly you've got to go to those parts of China where the labor availability is such where the cost of labor is such that you can get a benefit.
And that's something that we are clearly driving over the course of the next quarter and beyond to make sure that we can offset these labor increases.
The increases this year were particularly strong and acute.
They were coupled with tax increases.
They were coupled with other benefit increases.
So there was a lot to chew on this year in China.
But I can tell you that our team is one that can clearly manage through that over the long term.
LLC</strong> And then if I could just follow up on the 4% headcount reduction I think that's about 1 500 employees you guys have taken out.
Will the charges that you take in Q3 in absolute dollars be larger than the ones you took in Q2? And then if you look at the conversion margins of 16% this quarter was just 25% long-term I think you pointed a couple of things that impeded that but if I look at the 9-point swing would more than half of it be because of the charges? Yes I think that we don't quantify these charges.
As you know I know a lot of others do point these out on reconciliations and so forth with their press releases.
We just don't believe that that's an appropriate thing to do.
I mentioned it because it is a contributing factor in the spread.
And in terms of whether or not they'll be higher or lower next quarter I think they're around the same next quarter.
We're essentially taking actions kind of late this quarter or late Q2 early Q3 as appropriate now that we have seen some shift in terms of that mix in demand [indiscernible] operations that are just not going to be at the volume levels that we anticipated to be at.
And so we feel it's important to take these actions quickly so that we get those appropriate cost structures and get the benefit down the road.
So I think that we will in both Q2 and Q3 have some pressure as a result of this that after that point won't be there.
But you can just assume that it's a part of that spread between the prior year ROS and the current year ROS.
Matt Sheerin with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So just back to the cost reduction is there a correlation between the purchase price adjustment on the 2010 acquisition and the headcount reduction because you talked earlier Diana about the fact that that acquisition was in the Military area.
So is that basically the same area? The defense market certainly is one of the areas where headcount adjustments are appropriate and are being taken.
The acquisition adjustment is one of many units that operate in this business.
And I would say I think it's fair to say that the vast majority of our units that are in that particular market do have some action that needs to be taken including the one that we had this earn-out accrual adjustment for.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I think you made a good point talking about your mobility business and the fact that there are big swings in market share yet you've been able to grow the business pretty significantly and certainly a couple of your bigger customers have had some issues while others have gained shares.
So how do you manage that particularly on the inventory side? And you did see some inventory creep higher.
Was that related somewhat to the mobility business? The short answer to the last part of your question is no it was not.
I mean our Mobile Devices is such a short life cycle business.
We are very careful in that business in terms of how we run the business in every aspect.
We've run the business to a business which lasts between 3 and 6 and 9 months for each product life cycle.
So you're not going to build up 3 6 months of inventory on something that only has a 6-month life cycle.
So no that was not an inventory issue.
I can tell you that running that Mobile Devices business is really one of the most nimble agile organizations that we have.
They are constantly reallocating people to different customers constantly reapportioning engineering resources.
Because what we don't try to do and I think I've said this many times Matt we are not trying to guess which is going to be the hit product on the market.
We're just trying to be on the hit product by being on as many of the products as possible.
And that means you've got to do this in a very low cost environment.
Essentially we do all of our engineering in Asia for this non -- I mean high-cost areas.
We have very lean customer coverage teams who are there to really be again constantly reallocating their time to those accounts where there is the opportunity.
We just -- we never know which model is going to be successful.
I mean so many times we have thought one would not be successful and it was a wild success and vice versa.
It's a very very exciting market Mobile Devices.
Because as you think about it the technology the transformation of the technology given the short life cycle of the product is such that we can constantly innovate and constantly be gaining share gaining position with new customers as we then create new technologies that help them enable the functionality of their end device.
And that's something that Amphenol and our organization just does so well.
And we have a tremendous reception from our customers.
And then in the end you have to execute and the execution on those new designs means you've got to ramp as quickly as the customer needs you to ramp.
Sometimes you've got to double your capacity from what they originally told you to do.
How do you do that in a less capital-intensive way? How do you do that in a rapid way where maybe others don't have the flexibility in how they do business? That has been a tremendous asset for us and has allowed us to really capitalize on what has been just a wonderful trend for the business.
Now we certainly don't expect that always to grow 36% year-over-year.
I mean that -- clearly the law of large numbers would take hold.
But we do expect to always be participating very strongly in that market and we're very excited about that market going forward.
Next question will come from Brian White with Ticonderoga.
Adam could you talk a little about the tablet market what you're seeing there how Amphenol is participating? I think you wrapped that up in your Mobile Device segment.
The tablet has been a great story for us.
Obviously we did not participate so strongly in things like laptop computers and PCs and to the extent that tablets which we view really as an extension of a smartphone in its functionality and the technology that needs to be embedded in it those tablets have I believe replaced to some extent the purchases or at least the replacement cycles of products that we never participated in the past.
And so net-net that has been a real positive for us.
I think tablets are a product where the end customer and thereby the equipment manufacturers demand on technology on the ability to ramp the things that I just spoke about they're magnified even more than they are in a smartphone.
And so to that extent our ability again to execute and to deliver the strong technologies in tablets is something that I think our customers very very much appreciate.
And that translates then into getting the good position.
Obviously there appears to be one who has had the most successful tablet but that doesn't mean that that's the only one that we're going to work on.
We work on many many of these applications.
In the end it appears that customers migrate towards one of those models.
Okay.
Just on networking and storage.
It sounds -- the tone sounds a lot better in that market for you guys.
And I'm wondering are these new products that are coming out you're gaining share or is it just inventories are lower demands are getting ready for the second half of the year? Yes.
I mean I would say that if we look at the second quarter performance which obviously year-over-year was muted but sequentially we thought was very strong that is a result of all of the above.
It's new products that we have developed and we have been talking a lot about the new high-speed products that our company has been developing over many many years.
I think over the course of the last year we have accelerated those efforts beyond just [indiscernible] products into I/Os cable assemblies where we are really creating for our customers an end-to-end high-speed solution.
I think that real uplift that we are seeing from those efforts is something that's helping us out.
In addition we continue to drive the relationship of those customers the total solution with those customers allows us to take share with them.
There are ups and downs clearly in the IT market.
I mentioned we saw networking and storage to be very strong servers I wouldn't say was as strong in the quarter but that's going to keep happening.
Those will come up and down.
For us the mission is to really get the content with these new high-speed products.
And I think regardless of how that goes which customers win which share that will position us very very well for the future.
Last question will come from Amitabh Passi from UBS.
Adam my first question is for you.
We've heard from several companies in the supply chain that business may have sort of moderated tailed off towards the end of the quarter.
I just wanted to get your thoughts in terms of how business might have trended for you in the quarter and perhaps if you could even just maybe add some geographic commentary what you're seeing just in terms of order trends sentiment psychology of customers across geographies.
Yes.
I think I wouldn't necessarily say that that's what we saw.
I mean in the first quarter March tends be a pretty big -- sorry in the second quarter we tend to have are pretty good performance towards the end of the quarter.
And we didn't see anything different it didn't trend differently than we would have expected it to.
I think that resulted in us surpassing our guidance in our original expectation.
But I wouldn't say that that necessarily has seen any difference from what we would have expected.
And then just in terms of geographies any interesting trends across your geographies? No.
I mean Asia continues to perform very very well.
I think if you look at the markets where we have had good growth over the quarter.
Mobile Devices clearly is something where most of those products are going to ship into Asia because that's where they all get made.
But at the same time we saw double-digit growth in Europe.
We saw good performance in North America.
We mentioned and I think Diana mentioned in her remarks and I as well that we are very pleased especially in the cable segment of the business to see a real acceleration of growth in several emerging markets in particular in Latin America.
And I think those markets are going to be strong markets for us going forward.
I mean you look at a place like Brazil which has World Cup and Olympics and all these things coming up over the course of the coming years I think that that really is going to create a lot of momentum behind things like telecom infrastructure Aerospace Automotive.
I mean Broadband as well.
So I think we will see real contributions from those emerging markets continuing to be there that we have seen over the last -- over many many years actually.
Well very good.
Again we very much appreciate all of your interest in the company wish you a pleasant summer holiday season for those who takes a holiday.
And for the rest we look forward to seeing all of you in 3 months from now.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome everyone to our third quarter call.
Q3 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the third quarter achieving strong growth and beating the high end of the company's guidance.
Sales were $1 033 000 000 and EPS excluding the effects of one-time items was $0.81 both new records for the company.
On an as-reported basis EPS was $0.79 and included a one-time charge of $0.05 relating to the impact of the previously reported flood at the company's New York facility partially offset by a $0.03 benefit relating to a reduction in tax expense from the completion of the audit of certain prior year tax returns.
Sales were up 9% in U.S.
dollars and 7% in local currencies over the third quarter of 2010.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency effects sales in Q3 2011 were up 5% over last year.
Sequentially sales were up 1% in U.S.
dollars and 2% organically from Q2.
In comparing Q3 to the midpoint of the company's guidance of $1 008 000 000 sales exceeded guidance by approximately $25 million.
Sales in the Mobile Devices market were particularly strong growing over 20% sequentially as demand previously planned for the fourth quarter was pulled forward by certain customers.
This was partially offset by softness in the industrial market particularly in Europe reflecting weaker economic conditions and by a reduction of about $11 million as a result of the previously announced flooding at the company's New York facility which resulted in limited manufacturing and sales activity in the month of September.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components our Cable business which comprised 7% of our sales in the quarter was up 13% from last year and 2% from last quarter.
The Interconnect business which comprised 93% of our sales was up 9% from last year and 1% sequentially.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income for the quarter excluding the $12.8 million casualty loss relating to the flood was $199 million compared to $189 million last year.
Operating margin was 19.3% compared to 19.9% last year and 19.4% last quarter.
Operating income is net of stock option expenses of approximately $7.6 million in the third quarter of 2011 and $7 million in the third quarter of 2010 or about 0.7% of sales in both periods.
From a segment perspective in the Cable business margins were 13.1% down from 13.5% last year.
The margin decline relates primarily to higher material costs.
From a sequential standpoint however Cable margins improved from 12.8% primarily as a result of lower material costs.
In the Interconnect business margins were 21.5% compared to 22.3% last year.
The lower Interconnect operating margins reflect the impacts of increases in material input costs and to a lesser extent the costs associated with workforce reductions of approximately 5% or 2 000 people in the quarter.
It also was impacted by the impact of the loss of sales and margin due to the temporary flood-related shutdown of the company's New York facility in September.
These impacts were partially offset by the positive impacts of higher volume cost reduction actions and price increases.
Overall we're very pleased with the company's margin achievement.
The company's overall profitability level continued to be very strong in the face of significant global pressures and a mixed demand environment.
We continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture cost control will allow us to react in a fast and flexible manner and achieve strong profitability going forward.
Interest expense for the quarter was $10.5 million compared to $10.6 million last year reflecting lower average borrowing cost partially offset by the higher average debt levels resulting from the company's stock buyback program.
Other income was $2.3 million in the quarter up from $1.3 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income on higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
The tax rate in the third quarter of 2011 was 23.5% compared to a rate of 22.8% in the third quarter of 2010.
The prior year quarter included a net benefit relating to a reduction in international tax expense primarily due to the favorable settlement of certain tax positions and the completion of prior year audits of about $8.4 million or $0.05 per share.
The 2011 quarter includes a tax benefit of about $4.8 million or 37% of the $12.8 million casualty loss related to the flood described before and a benefit of $4.5 million or $0.03 relating to the completion of certain prior year tax audits.
Excluding these effects the effective tax rate on Q3 2011 was about 26.8% and we currently expect the same rate in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Net income excluding one-time items was approximately 13.4% of sales in Q3 a very strong performance.
Diluted earnings per share on an as-reported basis was $0.79 in the third quarter of 2011 and $0.78 in the third quarter of 2010.
After adjustment for one-time items diluted earnings per share increased 11% to $0.81 in the quarter.
Orders for the quarter were a record 1 017 000 000 up 8% from last year resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 0.98:1.
As we announced last month in early September the company incurred flood damage at its Sidney New York facility.
In addition to the loss of sales and margin from the temporary shutdown of the facility in September and October the company incurred a one-time charge relating to the write-off of damaged inventory and productive asset in addition to cleanup costs.
Net of insurance recoveries this resulted in a charge of about $12.8 million or $0.05 per share in the quarter and we currently expect an additional charge of $7 million or $0.03 per share in the fourth quarter relating to the remainder of the cleanup costs associated with the flood.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter was about $184 million approximately 136% of net income in the quarter and 96% of net income on a 9-month basis in 2011.
From a working capital standpoint inventory days declined to 79 days from 83 days at the end of June.
Inventory was 635 million at the end of September.
Day sales outstanding increased 1 day to 70 days at the end of September and accounts receivable was $803 million at the end of September.
The cash from operations along with borrowings under the company's credit and receivables facilities of $107 million was used primarily for $19 million of net capital expenditures a $79 million increase in cash and cash investments and about $173 million to purchase 3.8 million shares of the company stock under stock buyback program.
The company currently has about 9.6 million shares remaining under the 20 million share stock buyback program that was announced in January of this year and expires in January of 2014.
At September 30 cash and short-term cash investments were $781 million and these are primarily held up by the U.S.
Debt at the end of the quarter was $1 265 000 000 and net debt therefore was $484 million at the end of the quarter.
The company had availability under its revolving credit facility of $425 million at the end of the quarter.
The company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remain very strong at 1.36x and 22x respectively and EBITDA in the quarter was $242 million.
From a financial perspective both an excellent quarter.
Before I turn the call over to Adam I wanted to just make a couple of comments relative to the assumptions that we've included in our guidance.
The midpoint of our sales guidance for the year has been revised from $3.990 billion to $3.922 billion a reduction of approximately $68 million or 2%.
About half of this reduction is due to the impact of the flood and changes in currency rates specifically a loss of approximately $18 million in revenues resulting from the flood in our New York facility due to a lack of full production capacity in September and October and a reduction of approximately $15 million in revenues resulting from current translations impact primarily from the weaker euro.
The remaining reduction reflects incremental weakness in demand in the defense market and in the communications equipment markets including wireless infrastructure IP data and broadband and to a lesser extent a slowdown in European industrial markets.
We believe this weaker demand is a result of a higher level of market uncertainty caused by the multitude of fiscal and budgetary issues plaguing the global economy.
Our fourth quarter guidance of $920 million to $940 million in sales or a 9% to 11% sequential decline reflects the majority of the impact of these items.
And in addition it's further impacted by the anticipated sequential reduction in sales in the Mobile Devices market.
As I mentioned earlier in Q3 sales for the Mobile Device market were unexpectedly strong and we believe included some amount of customer pull-in of Q4 demand.
Therefore while sales in the Mobile Devices market in the second half of 2011 in total will be generally in line with our previous expectations fourth quarter sales are expected to be lower and we now expect a sequential decline of over 20% in this market in Q4.
For the full year our gross expectations of about 30% for the Mobile Device market remain relatively unchanged.
Of the 10% sequential decline in consolidated sales expected at the midpoint of our Q4 guidance about 2% relates to the impact of the flood and currency exchange rates.
Another 3% to 4% relates to the shift in the Mobile Device demand.
Given our current expectations for Q4 sales we are taking appropriate actions to adjust our cost structure including Q4 headcount reduction in addition to those already made in Q2 and Q3.
Our guidance in Q4 considering the lower volume and these actions assumes an ROS decline of about 1% from Q3 levels.
Additionally I would note that the guidance assumes a diluted share count of approximately 167 million shares.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Thank you very much Diana.
And I'd like to add my own welcome to all of you on the phone today at the time of our third quarter earnings call.
I'm going to spend a few moments to highlight our third quarter achievements that Diana has just detailed.
I'll discuss the trends and the progress in our served markets and then I plan to make a few comments further on the outlook for the fourth quarter.
The third quarter was a record quarter for Amphenol with orders and sales again in excess of $1 billion.
We are very pleased that despite increased uncertainty in the worldwide economy we were able to exceed the high end of our guidance in sales and EPS with revenues growing 9% from prior year and 1% sequentially to a new record $1 033 000 000 and with EPS reaching a record of $0.81 excluding the one-time items.
Although we continued to face significant cost challenges in the quarter the Amphenol management team executed very well in the quarter achieving industry-leading operating margins of 19.3%.
We're particularly pleased that we were able to produce net income of 13.4% of sales which is a clear indication of the financial strength of Amphenol.
We also generated record cash flow of $184 million which was used in part for the continuation of our stock buyback program.
These excellent results in the third quarter are a direct reflection of the strength as well as the discipline of our agile and entrepreneurial management team.
I'd like to make a few comments on the flood recovery efforts.
Diana discussed some of the specifics of the financials of the flood.
As announced on September 8 we experienced a severe and sudden flood in our Sidney New York military/aerospace factory which resulted from the back-to-back impacts of Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee.
No doubt a flood like this has tremendous personal impact on the people and our heart goes out to those in Thailand who are experiencing similar things today.
Following a previous flood in 2006 we took significant flood abatement measures in conjunction with state and local governments and these measures allowed us to minimize the impact.
We're very pleased with the phenomenal reaction of our local team together with our suppliers equipment manufacturers and clean-up specialists.
Our data systems were intact and operational within hours.
Our offices were relocated within 24 hours and the facility is largely operational today ramping up to full production later on in this month.
Most importantly our customers and distribution partners have been extremely supportive and understanding during this difficult time for us.
As Diana mentioned the flood resulted in approximately $11 million in lost sales in the third quarter and we expect incrementally another $7 million in lost sales in the fourth quarter.
Certainly in light of having suffered through 2 floods in the last 5 years we are working closely with state and local authorities to establish an alternative production location safely away from flood risk.
Again we are very proud of our organization which once again rises to whatever challenges can come our way.
Now turning to the trends and the progress in our served markets.
I just like to comment that during the course of the third quarter we have seen more conservatism from customers in many of our end markets as the various political and economic uncertainties around the world have increased most notably in developed economies.
Turning first to the military and aerospace market.
That market represented 18% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased 13% from prior year and 11% sequentially impacted certainly by the Sidney flood as well as by a moderation of orders in several Military programs.
Net of the flood impact sales in that market were down in the mid-single digits both on a year-over-year and a sequential basis as we had expected.
We are pleased to experience strong double-digit growth in sales to commercial air customers as plane volumes began to increase and as new programs began to take off.
We expect a slight improvement in sales in the military/aerospace market in the fourth quarter as our flood recovery efforts continue and as procurement begins to move ahead for certain military programs.
Longer term we continue to be very excited about the expansion opportunity available to us from the proliferation of new military electronics together with our new excellent positions on commercial air platforms.
Turning to the industrial market.
That market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased 4% from prior year and were down 10% from the second quarter as a result of moderation demand in certain sectors of the industrial market including in particular in Europe as well as resulting from expected seasonality.
Our growth compared to prior year was driven by progress in the heavy equipment and energy-related segments in particular.
And we remain encouraged by our continued inroads into many new industrial applications including alternative and traditional energy real mass transit and new lighting technologies.
While we are sensitive to growing conservatism among certain customers we do expect the industrial market to see some seasonal growth in the fourth quarter as our technology and diversified positions continued to create excellent growth potential into the future.
The automotive market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter and sales increased a very strong 55% from prior year and were down 3% from the second quarter on expected seasonality.
We are benefiting from the continued expansion of our participation in new electronics applications in both traditional and hybrid electric vehicles as well as from the Sylumis acquisition which we completed earlier this year.
That acquisition together with our ongoing internal technology development initiatives has broadened our range of automotive interconnect solution and is enabling us to capitalize on the many new electronic applications and vehicles around the world.
We expect sales in the automotive market to grow moderately in local currencies in the fourth quarter and increase vehicle volumes.
And we remain very excited about the many opportunities for future growth that we see today in the automotive market.
The broadband market represented 7% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in that market were down slightly from prior year and were flat sequentially as operators maintained stable build-out levels.
Once again we did experience strong growth in emerging markets with excellent sales progress in particular in Latin America.
While we expect demand in the broadband market to moderate in the fourth quarter seasonally we look forward to renewed momentum long-term through our ongoing drive to expand our range of technologies to broadband customers in both domestic as well as international markets.
The information technology and data communications market represented 20% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased 4% from prior year and a strong 7% sequentially with growth in particular in storage and networking applications.
Recently we have begun to see customers reducing their outlooks to some degree.
We believe this relates to market uncertainties and caution regarding inventory levels which may have been built-up in anticipation of stronger end-market demand that our customers are seeing today.
Nevertheless our pipeline of high-technology new programs continues to grow.
As customers are demanding higher performance equipment in support of the rapidly expanding IP video and other bandwidth-hungry applications many of which are actually being driven by the proliferation of new data-intensive mobile Internet devices.
While we expect a reduction in sales from the third quarter on these recent pullbacks in demand we remain optimistic due to our new design wins with our high-technology products across a very broad array of IT customers and equipment platforms.
The mobile networks market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased 6% from prior year as we benefited from expanded positions on new base station platforms as well as from growing sales into site installations around the world.
Sales were down slightly sequentially.
We expect a reduction of demand in the fourth quarter as economic uncertainties appear to be causing operators as well as original equipment manufacturers to reduce their installation and build plans and to become more cautious with respect to their inventory levels.
Regardless we remain excited by the many expanding opportunities for our interconnect products and antennas in a wide array of newly upgraded base station systems.
And we look forward to continued growth across all the broad geographies that we serve.
In particular we do believe that this short-term conservatism in build-outs is creating some degree of pent-up demand as network operators will be forced to upgrade their systems to improve both coverage and capacity especially in support of the explosive growth of new smartphones and tablet computers.
The Mobile Devices market represented 23% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a very strong 39% from prior year and increased sequentially by an unexpected 23% as we capitalized on our expanded product position in new smart Mobile Devices in particular tablets.
We believe that this unexpected uptick in demand in the third quarter was driven in large part by pull-ins from certain customers that did not necessarily represent true levels of end demand and thus will not repeat in the fourth quarter.
Accordingly we expect a sales decline of more than 20% in the fourth quarter in the Mobile Devices market as those inventories of components and devices are consumed.
Nevertheless we still feel very positive about our full year outlook for performance in the Mobile Devices market with expected growth of approximately 30%.
And we remain optimistic that our successful product and customer diversification efforts have positioned us to participate in the expanding market for new Mobile Devices whether that be standard-feature phones smartphones or tablets.
We're very confident that our ongoing efforts will continue to drive success going forward in this very dynamic market.
Now turning to our outlook for the fourth quarter and the full year.
As I just mentioned we did see a significant shift of demand in the Mobile Device market from the fourth quarter into the third quarter.
In addition we expect growing economic uncertainties in the market to have near-term impacts in most communication equipment markets as well as in the European industrial market.
Accordingly and based on constant currency exchange levels we now expect in the fourth quarter 2011 and the full year 2011 the following results.
We expect sales in the range of $920 million to $940 million and $3 912 000 to $3 932 000 000 respectively.
And we expect earnings per share in the range of $0.69 to $0.71 and $3.01 to $3.03 respectively excluding one-time items.
As Diana mentioned in reaction to these near-term changes in market conditions and the resulting lower demand levels that we now see we are taking immediate and appropriate actions to adjust our cost including headcount reductions.
As is the custom in Amphenol our management team is taking these actions proactively and aggressively with a 5% headcount reduction in the third quarter and further plans to reduce as necessary going into the fourth quarter.
In summary I'm extremely proud of the Amphenol organization as we have executed well in what is still a very challenging environment.
These strong results that we have produced in the third quarter are a direct result of our distinct competitive advantages our leading technology our increasing position with customers in our many diverse markets our worldwide presence a lean and flexible cost structure and most importantly an agile and entrepreneurial management team.
Although there are growing uncertainties in many of our end markets as well as ongoing inflationary pressures I have tremendous confidence in that Amphenol management team.
I am confident that we'll continue to excel in these challenging times by reacting quickly to changing customer needs to further strengthen our market position and by driving proactively the actions that are necessary to secure our leading operating margins.
Most importantly this team will continue to execute with a level of passion and effectiveness that ensures a continued superior performance of Amphenol.
Thank you very much.
And Carol at this point we would be very happy to take any questions that there may be.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Wamsi Mohan Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Adam I was wondering given the heightened economic uncertainty that you referred to could you speak a little about the linearity in the quarter? And any color by end market and geographic region will be especially helpful.
Sure.
I mean I think that there was no real special unique linearities to the quarter.
Obviously in a third quarter September tends to be a bigger month and it was still a bigger month.
I mean we had excellent overall results for the quarter.
I think what we did see was in August whether that was related to politics or economic news or otherwise and continuing to September that customers just became much more cautious.
Again are they reading the newspapers? Are they seeing what their end-customers say? There was clearly more caution coming from customers starting in that time period.
Relative to the regional -- our regional performance you can imagine that Asia was very strong in the quarter.
I mean it grew fabulously on a year-over-year basis.
That's where a lot of that Mobile Devices business is consumed.
And Europe did also very well in the year-over-year basis in the quarter given our strong performance in automotive.
From a sequential standpoint we really saw growth particularly in Asia.
Again not surprising given the strength of the Mobile Devices market.
Research Division</strong> Adam and as a quick follow-up was the pull-in in Mobile Devices really specific to 1 or 2 customers or was it more broad-based? Yes I mean I think we're not going to comment about one specific customer or another.
But I can tell you that there were certain programs where clearly they were buying product with anticipation of sales levels which whether that appeared or not is unclear.
But the amount of product that was bought from us in the third quarter is clearly not going to repeat into the fourth quarter.
Whether that is because they produced more they gathered more components or otherwise we certainly saw -- with a few programs in particular that there was more buying in the third quarter in anticipation of what maybe customers thought would have been better results than in the end they got.
Amit Daryanani RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions from my side.
One just on the military/aerospace side looks like about a $18 million impact from the flooding issues.
With the assumption that those end-customers are able to get the products they need through their own inventory channel should we expect that Amphenol is able to recover revenues in the first half of 2012? Yes Amit.
That's a very good question and certainly we would anticipate to be able to recover those revenues.
We're very very pleased how in reaction to the flood our distribution partner as well as our own internal operations some sister divisions around the world other factories have responded just tremendously to keep our customers whole.
But you can imagine that we have certain also proprietary products which we have certain capacity levels of.
And that will take some time to catch-up to and our customers are being very understanding.
If we look towards the next 6 months we -- our goal is certainly to get those sales back over such a time period.
Does that come all in 1 month or 2 months or 1 quarter? It doesn't necessarily come that way.
It is a very complex initiative to bring that factory back up.
We have an outstanding distribution channel who is able to create an excellent buffer when necessary and has really been able to do that.
I mean the thing that we are just most proud about here is that none of our customers have really had any complaints to Amphenol about how we've handled this.
I have personally visited and spoken with many of those customers where we had critical products ongoing testing new product ramps happening.
And the team up in Sidney just did such a fabulous job to prioritize those things which are so critical to the customer.
We had machines running 3 4 days after the flood for certain products which were very very critical to have for customers.
Others that we knew the distribution channel could support those were ones where we were able to prioritize those a little less important than the most critical sole-source products.
So I think the simple answer is yes we would anticipate over the course of the next kind of half year.
But is that exactly a half year? That is impossible really to pin down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then Adam maybe you could just talk a little bit on the M&amp;A side.
I think 2011 has been relatively quiet so far.
Just from your experience given the macro uncertainty do you expect kind of smaller companies to be more open to an acquisition at this point? Are you going to wait to see how the macro shakes out before they decide to do it? Well it's interesting.
We obviously had that same topic in consideration during the downturn in 2009.
And I think what we saw in that downturn was those companies who are not going to -- who don't need to sell are not going to sell.
At the same time we made and we continued to make acquisitions in every economic environment.
We've made one acquisition this year with Sylumis.
We continued to have a strong pipeline.
And I would not tell you that because whatever turmoil is happening in the world that we have seen owners retrenching far from it.
I think we have continued dialogues that are there are and which we would expect over time to be able to complete some acquisitions.
And we're very excited about the pipeline.
There's a wide variety of companies and a wide variety of industries and a wide variety of regions.
And again how to get those closed at what time period that is something that we work very hard on.
But in the end have not really the ability to pin it down to a certain day.
Do multiples change in such an environment? Again our experience in the last -- in the downturn of 2009 was that yes you saw certainly some more reasonable outlook on multiples.
I think in this environment we haven't seen really unreasonable multiples being talked about by at least the companies that we talk to over the last couple of years.
So I don't anticipate any significant changes given today's environment.
Jim Suva Citi.
Research Division</strong> So the first question I have is on the defense softness.
We all know in Washington DC everybody has their own special interest and agendas to get across.
Do you think that we're at a level now of stabilization in this business and visibility remains more stable or do you think that it can continue to get softer? And is it mostly just OEMs kind of sitting around not sure where the appropriations are going to be? Or can you kind of help us out what your discussions and visibilities are like and what type of phase are we at as far as stability or even getting worse? Sure.
I think we are still in what I would call an uncertain but stable environment.
Let me put it that way.
I mean clearly there is this sword that hangs over the whole military industry on I think it is November 23 or 13 whatever the date of the super committee deadline is.
That is something that is kind of out of everybody's hands.
Nobody knows what they talk about inside the room.
And at one point hopefully they will issue a report and they will come to an agreement.
Whether that happens I can tell you that customers in the military industry don't have a tremendous amount of optimism that a committee of 12 people 6 from each party will eventually come to an agreement.
So I think that that continues to hang over people's heads.
At the same time we saw in the quarter and we continue to see that the military industry has not just ground to a halt.
There are still programs being funded.
There are things being made.
I mean we continue to have a very very significant sales into that market.
And yes it was down on a year-over-year basis certainly impacted by the flood but also impacted by these concerns.
But we still see a lot of programs that are ongoing.
And what gives me optimism for the long-term Jim is even with that sword hanging over people's heads from a governmental and a congressional standpoint the drive for new designs and new electronics and new functionalities we have not seen that slow down whatsoever in terms of the programs and the type of engineering challenges that we see.
And so I think from that perspective our belief that long-term the proliferation of electronics into this market is going to allow a significant offset to whatever budgetary pressures are going to come we still subscribe very much to that conviction because of what we see with our customers where they are continue to innovate and to develop new technologies everyday of the week.
Research Division</strong> Great and maybe a follow-up question for Diana.
During the conference call you mentioned that this is your second flood in 5 or 6 years or whatever which is truly unfortunate and your team's done a great job at recovering.
You mentioned that there's going to be -- you're looking at potentially a new facility there.
And can you just help us as investors put our arms around is -- are there transactional or transition financial items that we need to be aware of such as facility qualifications or duplicated operating running operations or yield issues or timeline? And do you really need to like kind of earmark some -- a fair amount of cash for that? Or how should we think about that additional facility and impact to the financials? Sure.
I don't think Jim we anticipate any significant negative financial impacts outside of the ones that we mentioned relative to the losses associated with the flooding itself and the loss of sales the sales we expect to make up at some point during 2012.
I think Adam actually was the one that mentioned this facility and the fact that we are working very closely with government in the state to find an appropriate location and also to get support for a project that would help us to relocate the facility.
We do not anticipate a significant negative financial impact.
There may be some costs associated from a capital expenditure perspective.
But again in the grand scheme of things we would not expect this to be a significant financial impact on the company and feel that some expenditure relative to the risk of potentially another flood given the fact that we've had 2 in 5 years would -- makes this well worth the effort on our part.
We do expect to get a substantial support from government on this.
These are -- this is an excellent facility that produces high-tech products with a very very heavy skilled workforce.
And so the importance of the facility and the employment to the state is as you can imagine is as important to them as it is to us.
And so we expect a high level of cooperation and support and quite frankly really look forward to being able to transition the facility to this new location.
I don't know Adam if you want add anything to that or if that's...
Yes I mean the only thing that I would say in addition is we had this flood in 2006 which was a terrible event.
On the side we have become real experts at dealing with these things.
And so I think our organization they really know how to deal with the flood.
We're not going to ever go through that again though in Sidney.
One of the things that we did do at that time was we took the decision to move essentially our whole industrial business out of Sidney New York and that was an outstanding move.
That was why our industrial business essentially was not impacted by this flood.
That was one of the mitigation efforts that we took.
This time we are going to continue to make sure that our customers and our people our staff are not put at risk from a flood.
I agree with Diana.
This is not going to be any real meaningful expense to the company.
We're going to have tremendous support we anticipate from the local government.
And our organization is going to rise and create an even better operation for the future than we ever imagined before in support of our customers in support of the high-technology products that are developed from this company.
Our next question is from Matt Sheerin Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Diana so just question on the margins looking at your sales and EPS guidance and your share count guidance it looks like you're looking at operating margin decline of about 100 basis points quarter-on-quarter.
Obviously the lower volumes will impact the margins.
How much of the impact will be from the additional headcount reductions? Because I know you had those costs the last couple of quarters and the expectations that was going to go away.
Now obviously you're doing some more cuts.
So could you tell us sort of what that ballpark is going to look like? And then on the material side I know that's been a headwind for you in the last few quarters.
We're seeing material spot prices of things like copper come down.
Would that start to benefit you and when would that be? Sure.
Maybe starting with materials first.
I mean it certainly is true Matt that we have seen over the past few quarters this year certainly some negative impact resulting from this discontinued pressure on commodities particularly in our case on the interconnect side with gold.
And then certainly also copper and aluminum are important particularly on the cable side of the business as are plastics.
I think that it's certainly fair to say that there have been some improvements in certain of those in the last couple of months.
Gold unfortunately is still higher than it would have been when we had closed Q2.
I think that in terms of copper and aluminum which have done better during the last quarter I mean if those can continue to stay at or come down from the levels that we're at today we would expect probably to see some improvement in the cable side of the business towards the end of the fourth quarter and then as we move into next year.
As you know we carry some inventory level of these items and so we don't get an immediate benefit.
To the extent that from the interconnect side of the business to the extent that again as we look into next year we get some improvement in both demand levels in the commodities maybe including gold would start to get a little bit better.
I think that we would also hope to see some positive impact on the interconnect side of the business.
So I think from a commodity standpoint right now in the immediate short term we don't see a large benefit.
But I think it's very fair to say that things are moving in a more positive direction.
Hopefully those continue.
In terms of the restructuring you're absolutely right that we didn't anticipate -- from a restructuring standpoint you're absolutely right that when we talked last time in July we said we were taking action in Q2 and Q3 that would put some pressure on ROS.
And I think if you recall in Q2 we had about a 0.4% decline in ROS.
And we did say that there was a portion of that a smaller portion than the material pressure but some portion of that that was being impacted by structuring cost.
And we did not at that time expect to see lower volumes in Q4 and therefore more headcount reductions.
We now do see that.
And so we are ending up really with 3 quarters where we're taking out a fair number of folks in the workforce which is resulting in the same type of pressure in Q4.
And therefore a little higher issue from a conversion margin standpoint.
We don't as you know like to specifically quantify these things because we do consider them part of the normal operating part of the business.
But it certainly does put some additional pressure on Q4.
This is a fairly more significant volume reduction in Q4 which also makes from a profitability standpoint things are a little bit harder.
We'll be -- have gotten through these actions by the end of Q4 and that should provide some support to profitability as we move into 2012.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just quickly on the headcount reduction I know a lot of that in the last couple of quarters has focused on the military sector.
Is that still your focus or has that moved into other areas? Yes I think that this would be more on the communications side of the business.
I mean the most significant sequential decline is in the Mobile Devices market in Q4 so -- and this does tend to be a labor-intensive business and so this will certainly have a significant action to taking there and also some of our wireless infrastructure units in addition to that we'll have some action there.
I think the majority of the actions in the Defense business have been taken.
There may be a few smaller actions.
But I would say it's predominantly in the communications side of the business.
Steve O'Brien JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to perhaps the Mobile Devices segment and in the context of potential for near-term maybe headcount actions.
Is there any headwind I guess to the business from customers diversifying their suppliers here? And with the clear trends Adam pointed out in terms of Mobile Device and smartphone penetration growth and proliferation would the headcount reductions be indicative of an outlook for softer demand maybe lasting beyond a couple of quarters? Look I mean we made headcount reductions in the moment.
And so I think what has been the hallmark of the Amphenol organization over many many years has been that we don't adjust our resources with an expectation of what the future is.
We adjust our resources based on the reality of what faces us today.
And clearly we have a sequential reduction of more than 20% in the Mobile Devices market which we've -- both Diana and I mentioned and that is going to lead the general managers to run the businesses within that Mobile Devices market to take immediate and significant actions.
And I think that is exactly the case.
If that business comes back and when it comes back they will add the resources using that kind of accordion-like way of doing things that we have always done.
And I think that is just the hallmark of how we run the business.
You should not take away from the fact that we're making headcount reductions in one or another segment as a statement that we are -- I mean to recharacterize what you say we are losing share in that market.
That is certainly not the case that we see.
Just again to recharacterize it we saw in the third quarter a very significant pull-in of demand which clearly now comes out -- was demand that maybe otherwise would have been falling into the fourth quarter.
And we obviously had the resources in place to satisfy that demand.
And these were significant pull-ins whereby customers hit us with orders that we didn't expect to come and we're able to ramp up and satisfy the demand from those customers in a very very significant and effective fashion.
And when you have that than to reverse course we're going to make the resource adjustment that we always make at Amphenol.
And that is true across every one of the markets and every one of our 75 general managers around the company.
They're running their business after having gone to the customer they listen to what the customer says they need in the future.
And they go back and they adjust their resources really in realtime relative to what the market needs.
And that has allowed us to always react in difficult times and always be able to ramp up more quickly in good times.
And I think that flexibility that we preserve that in-the-moment management of the resources of the company that is something that we will continue to drive.
And so whatever comes our way here whether that be floods or whether that be pull-ins of demand we're going to react very rapidly to those events and we're going to drive them.
We're going to be successful following that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Adam can I ask one more maybe on the mobile networks division.
On the -- we've certainly seen talk of CapEx cutbacks.
Do you have any additional color on regional trends in the near term? And then where maybe your expectations' longer-term for which regions will be more soon to recover? Sure.
No I mean clearly this is a case or we have also seen those same trends that you mentioned here.
We see it from both the OEMs as well as the operators because we do business with both parts of the chain in the wireless infrastructure market.
And I think what has happened recently I mean whether you have some big mergers that are sort of stalled whether you have customers being more conservative about certain build plans clearly the build plans and the installation plans of operators in particular in developed markets have not met the expectations of the OEMs.
And we have really seen that on a global basis that conservatism.
What does it mean in the end? I think I am not the only one on the phone here today who is just intensely frustrated by the coverage of my phone when I'm driving around the highways of the Northeast.
And there is clearly a significant pent-up demand for both coverage and capacity.
The new Mobile Devices whether those be tablets or smartphones or whatever Android iOS all of those formats those are driving levels of data and levels of capacity restriction in these markets on a worldwide basis.
And so we believe that there's no question that at one point you’ve got to have these things built.
And what we hear from our OEM customers is certainly the same story which is that they are hearing from their operator accounts that yes there may be some pause here.
We're doing whatever whatever it takes to get a merger done or we are doing whatever it takes to sort of preserve capital in an uncertain time.
They are going to have to install these base stations.
They're going to have to install lot of them.
The beauty of the new type of base stations that the leading equipment manufacturers have created and where we have worked with them on new technologies is these new base stations are much smaller.
They're much more flexible and they allow the operators to more quickly make these installations.
These are not big refrigerator boxes from the past.
They are much smaller.
In that sense that you can get coverage in a much much quicker fashion in certain places.
And look I know very well when I go home and I barely have cell phone coverage anymore that they're going to have to change.
They're going to have to install these base stations.
When that comes does it come in the first quarter? Does it come in the second quarter? This is very hard to predict.
Only those in the boardrooms of these operators know that.
But clearly it will come because it is getting worst and worst around the world in terms of coverage.
And the only answer is to put in place new and more of these base station platforms and we're very very well-positioned on those systems.
The next question will be from Amitabh Passi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions for you.
Adam you talked about some levels of caution around inventory levels in the IT Datacom wireless infrastructure markets.
Any sense how long any sort of inventory digestion takes place? The last time we went through this in 2010 I think it lasted for 2 or 3 quarters particularly in IT Datacom.
Just wondering if you will venture if you have any sense in terms of is this a 1-quarter phenomenon or could it drag out? Yes I -- unfortunately I'm not going to be able to give you a great answer because I hope it is a 1 2-quarter phenomenon.
What we saw in the IT market very clearly was that going into the quarter customers had certain expectations about what would normally be growth going into the fourth quarter.
And I think you've seen in the many earnings releases that have come out over the last several months that those expectations have been moderated.
But they already drove the supply chain to put in place the capacity for that uptick in demand which in the end does not happen for those customers.
And so is that something that gets consumed in 1 quarter? Does it get consumed in 2 quarters? Certainly I would hope it not to last much longer than 2 quarters.
It depends in the end on what the final customers take.
An inventory position is only healthy given a certain level of demand.
And so to the extent that our customers see a level of demand that is kind of a more normal or flat demand from the third quarter going into the fourth quarter then I would hope that that would be a more positive outlook.
If they see further caution from their customers from the government from the financial services that other big customers then you could potentially have more time for an inventory correction.
I would hope this is not more than a 1 2-quarter phenomenon.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just on the topic of inventories how would you characterize inventories at your distributors at this point? I think those levels are actually pretty healthy.
Certainly with the flood we have seen some of those -- some consumption of inventory on the margin is not such a huge impact.
But the beauty of having inventory in the distribution channel is that in a time of an emergency like this flood that they are able to consume some of that inventory and then it's up to them to replenish it.
Those levels today appear to be largely in line with historically comfortable level for our distributors.
Sherri Scribner Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get a little bit of detail on your expectations for growth going forward.
If we look at the midpoint of the guidance for the December quarter it implies a revenue decline year-over-year of about 2%.
And I know customers are being cautious but we haven't seen a year-over-year decline since the recession.
So I wanted to get your sense of what your expectations are what you're hearing from customers what you're bookings are for the March quarter now as we move into 2012 and if you think this decline in revenue continues? I think at this point we really are not going to talk about guidance for 2012 or either for the full year or for the first quarter of 2012.
I think that in the prior question I mean Adam did talk a little bit about how long we've sort of -- things that might take -- or some of the excess inventory to work its way through.
I think that in terms of the year-over-year comparisons in Q4 I think we do have a phenomenon certainly in the wireless devices market where we're experiencing a quarter that we believe has if you want somewhat artificially lower level of demand because of this kind of Q3 Q4 phenomenon that we saw.
And I think that's driving to some extent some expectations of year-over-year decline that would be more temporary in nature.
But I think at this point it isn't that we can really talk about our expectations for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Adam I know in the past you've given some detail on the Aerospace and Military business.
I think you commented that this quarter the commercial aerospace piece of that business grew in the double digits.
In the past I think you've said commercial aerospace was about 20% of that total aerospace and military budget.
Has that number changed and can you update us on that? Sure.
It was -- as you can imagine with the performance in the military and the double-digit growth in commercial air the proportion of that military/aerospace market that is represented by commercial is a bit more -- now I’d say it’s more like quarter of the market if not even slightly more than a quarter of the market.
So we're very pleased with that development and we think that that's something that's going to long-term be very favorable for the company.
If we look at commercial air as I mentioned it grew very strongly in the quarter.
And if you take out the impact of the flood it would have grown somewhere around 20% year-over-year.
So very very strong performance in commercial air.
And we have continued a very positive outlook for that commercial air segment.
The number of new planes the degree of kind of the electronic architecture changes in these new planes is really just fabulous.
I had the good fortune to be crawling around some of these planes over the course of last month or 2.
And it is really just not only the new platforms and the amount of electronics in them but the vision of our customers for the future of electronics whether that be in the fuselage in the avionic system even in the engines which have been something that long-term has not changed so much.
There is just a real drive to wherever possible implement electronic functionalities to drive either fuel efficiency either a simplification of the control mechanisms for the pilot either to drive a better passenger experience.
And there's really just phenomenal things that our commercial air customers are not just implementing today but even considering long term for the future that creates just an amazing level of opportunities for the company.
And we are really capturing that with technology.
When I go out and I sit with the engineers of some of these customers and really talk about technology that's where you get so excited because the new innovations that we are driving for those customers are real game changers in terms of allowing those customers to do things that they didn't know they could do in the past whether that is bringing electronics closer to harsher environments in the plane whether that is bringing new functionalities to the passengers.
Those are all things that -- the interconnect that we are innovating are helping to drive those customers to create those new experiences.
And I think that's going to serve us very very well in the future for commercial and we're really excited about that market.
The next question is from Brian White Ticonderoga.
Research Division</strong> Adam when you look at the guidance for fourth quarter here I know you've had some pull-ins but third quarter doesn't seem to be any better in seasonality.
When we look at fourth quarter this is even a worse outlook than you gave in October 2008.
So my question is does this feel like we're in a downturn? Well look I mean let's take the second part first Brian I appreciate very much the question.
October of 2008 if you recall we saw sort of a normal environment.
And then I think it was at the first week of December Diana when we really saw November orders kind of fall off a cliff back in that time period and that's when we had to unfortunately issue a press release at the time to say that those expectations were not going to be there.
I think this is a little bit different.
We have not seen everything fall off a cliff here.
Certainly we see that there are a lot of questions among our customers.
People are nervous.
People are nervous about the environment.
They are nervous about the political the economic environment and we did see this very significant shift between the Mobile Devices from the fourth quarter to the third quarter.
If you take that shift away and I think Diana went through the numbers we would be -- if you take currency and that shift away this would be something like a 4% I think reduction from Q3 to Q4.
Certainly not what we would like and not what we would normally see seasonally.
And I think that difference is really the environment that we are facing today and that many of our customers are facing in particular in the communications market as we talked about in wireless infrastructure in IT as well as in the European industrial market which is one where clearly the events in Europe are causing many customers in some of the biggest industrial zones of Europe to tighten their belt so to speak.
They don't want to get overextended until they really know what's going to be happening in Europe.
And our next question will be from Craig Hettenbach Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a follow-up on the industrial end market the expectations for slight growth in Q4 a little surprising given some of the dynamics in terms of demand and focus on the channel to bring inventory down.
So I was hoping you can provide a little more color in terms of any specific programs or what gives you the confidence in the growth in industrial.
And again thank you very much for the question Craig.
Appreciate it.
I mean when we will look for the fourth quarter you would normally have a seasonal growth coming out of the third quarter.
And we did see that the industrial business was down sequentially in the third quarter by some 10%.
And because the industrial business does have a significant component in Europe as well in North America that seasonal impact can be -- not insignificant going to the fourth quarter.
I think we feel very good about our position in that market.
Recall that our industrial business is very very diversified.
It ranges in things from high speed rail to alternative energy to oil and gas exploration to factory automation industrial instrumentation heavy equipment I mean lighting.
I could go on for a long time about these sub-segments.
And I think we still see in many of those markets especially those new markets like alternative energy like lighting where there's a big transition happening in the nature of lighting and outdoor and harsh-environment lighting.
Those are areas where we continue to see that there is momentum among the customers and there's still great opportunities for growth.
I think you take those kind of new markets in industrial in addition there's maybe a more muted but still a little bit of a seasonal uptick that comes in the fourth quarter.
And that in the end results in us having that outlook that we gave.
Research Division</strong> Okay if I could just a quick follow-up for Diana.
You mentioned the 5% headcount reduction in Q3 a rough range in terms of what you're putting together for Q4 here.
Yes I mean I think that we would expect something in the same sort of range is going to be appropriate in Q4.
I think as Adam said these actions are very much done on a grass-roots level and each business will adjust appropriately for the volume and obviously some are more impacted than others.
But we would expect and have anticipated something around the same size as what was implemented in Q3.
William Stein Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I think investors tend to be very interested in the inflection point.
So Adam you talked about seeing how customers were getting more conservative in August and September.
We're about 3 weeks into October.
Are customers getting more conservative more nervous about the same? Or are you seeing things start to bottom out with regard to the kind of attitude and approach to ordering and forecasts? I think with regard to the mindset of the customers I wouldn't say that there has been any incrementally more negative mindset coming just into the first few weeks of October.
I mean look the situations that gave rise to that are clearly not resolving themselves automatically.
And so if you're a military customer do you feel better today than you felt 3 weeks ago probably not but I don't think you feel lot worse either.
I think you're going about your job you're still building the programs that you got to build.
I think relative to the IT market and the wireless infrastructure market it's a similar story.
I believe that the customers there some of them may just now be coming to the realization "Hey we're not going to hit that step-up that we thought we were going to get." And so did that translate into a slightly more negative view today than 2 months ago.
I would say in those markets maybe we've seen those revisions more recently in terms of the mindset only because they clung to the hope that they would have that real big sequential step-up that they all anticipated.
And now it seems to be coming through a realization that's not going to happen with how long it's taking the governments of the world to make resolution to some of these uncertainties and to really help to drive the economies in a better direction.
I think that's causing some to just sort of say "Well look we're going to -- we're not going to have that step-up so let's adjust accordingly." Research Division</strong> Great.
A quick follow up if I can.
Diana in the past I think many times you said that companies preferred use of cash is a value-creating M&amp;A.
Is that still the case and what's the approach to buybacks going forward? Sure.
I think that is absolutely still the case.
I mean we just continue to feel that this is certainly the best use of the company's financial capacity.
I think that we all continue to work very hard on the acquisition program and would hope to be able to use a majority of our capacity for that as we move ahead.
We have bought a fair amount of stock back this year as well I think about roughly 10.5 million shares.
So far this year counts down to about 167 million at this point also we believe is a good use of the capacity of the company and is a way certainly to return value to shareholders.
I think we also will continue to consider the dividend level of -- on the stock and I think that we'll continue to look certainly at all 3 of these.
But clearly the acquisition program is the number one priority as far as the management team is concerned.
The next question will be from Shawn Harrison Longbow Research.
I'll try to make it brief.
2 questions.
Just first with the headcount reductions the 5% in the third quarter was that incremental to the 4% announced for the second quarter so you would have a double-digit headcount reduction over the past 3 quarters in a cumulative amount? Yes that's correct.
Absolutely.
Okay and then the second question is it seems as is a few of your peers are just trying to raise prices at least through parts of the supply chain right now.
Do you think you're able to raise prices in this environment or is it more of an environment where you hold prices steady and then you hope commodities help you out in early 2012? I mean look when you are in an uncertain market raising prices at least to OEM customers is not an easy thing to do.
And I think we took a lot of pricing actions early in the year.
And as the market environment became more mixed and then later became more certain the ability to execute on those price increases especially with OEMs became more of a struggle.
I think relative to the channel as you correctly point out distribution is one area where you can raise prices a little bit more easily.
We do this on an ongoing basis.
We don't do it monolithically.
So you may not hear about it in a way that says "Well Amphenol want and raised prices monolithically across distribution channel" That's just not how we operate.
Our price increases go out really on a product or a technology basis and those are an ongoing -- throughout the year pricing exercise with our distributors and we will continue to follow that as well.
Remember distribution represents only some 14% 15% of our sales and so that's not the big issue.
The big issue is how you go about getting price increases with the OEMs.
We will be disciplined on price.
One of the areas that is the most essential for price is actually new product development.
And as we look forward new products for Amphenol consistently have represented more than 20% nearly 25% of our sales for a number of years.
And that is a focus that allows us to get pricing in the end not by changing the price on a certain part number but by having more functionality embedded in the product creating more value for your customer.
And thereby they're willing to pay you a comparably higher price.
But it's an apples-and-oranges comparison in the eyes of the customer.
And so at the end of the day in a market like this innovation is the real answer to that pricing.
We're going to drive that innovation very very hard going forward.
Thank you very much Shawn.
And I'd like to thank all of you for your time today and your attention and wish you all a very very good completion here to October and going into the full year.
We'll talk to you again in January.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for attending and have a nice day.
Thank you.
Hello and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
You may begin ma'am.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome everyone to our fourth quarter conference call.
Q4 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the fourth quarter achieving sales of $949 million and EPS excluding onetime items of $0.73 beating the high end of the company's guidance.
On an as-reported basis EPS was $0.69 and included an $8.6 million or $0.03 charge relating to the impact of the previously reported flood and a charge of $2 million or $0.01 relating to acquisition transaction expenses for the acquisition of FEP closed in the quarter.
Sales were flat in U.S.
dollars and local currencies compared to Q4 of 2010.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and foreign exchange sales in Q4 2011 were down 3% from last year.
Sequentially sales were down 8% in both U.S.
dollars and organically from Q3.
For the full year 2011 sales grew 11% over 2010.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components our Cable business which comprised 6% of our sales was up 4% from last year and down 19% from last quarter.
The Interconnect business which comprised 94% of our sales was flat with last year and down 7% sequentially.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income for the quarter excluding onetime items was $175 million compared to $191 million last year.
Operating margin was 8.5% a little better than our expectations reflecting a negative conversion margin of approximately 28% from Q3 on an 8% sequential sales decline.
The Q4 2011 ROS of 18.5% compared to a record Q4 2010 ROS of 20.1% and a Q3 2011 ROS of 19.3%.
For the full year ROS excluding onetime items is 19.2% compared to 19.7% for the full year 2010.
The year-over-year margin reduction in Q4 of 1.6% is mainly attributable to lower margins in the Interconnect business which were 20.8% in the quarter compared to 22.4% last year and 21.5% last quarter.
In addition stock option expense was higher in the quarter on flat sales reducing overall ROS by 10 basis points or 0.1%.
From an Interconnect margin standpoint about 1/3 of the reduction from last year relates to higher depreciation expense in the 2011 quarter compared to the 2010 quarter.
While depreciation expense as a percentage of sales for the full year 2011 is comparable to 2010 the sequential decline in sales in Q4 2011 resulted in higher relative expense levels in the current quarter.
The remaining reduction in margin reflects the impacts of increases in material input costs versus the prior year particularly for precious metals and plastics and to a lesser extent cost in the quarter relating to workforce reductions of about 3%.
These impacts were partially offset by the positive impacts of cost reduction actions and price increases.
In the Cable business margins improved to 13.1% up from 12.3% last year.
The margin improvement relates to higher volume of specialty cable products and lower relative material costs primarily copper and aluminum.
Overall we're pleased with the company's operating margin performance of 18.5% in the fourth quarter and 19.2% for the full year 2011 excluding onetime items.
The achievement of this profitably level in a year where significant inflationary pressures on input costs coexisted with a volatile and less-than-supportive demand environment in many of our markets is a hard-fought accomplishment by operating management.
In response to that environment from a headcount perspective for the year we reduced headcount by about 4% excluding the impact of acquisitions.
We continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control will allow us to continue to react in a fast and flexible manner and achieve strong profitability.
In addition as we look forward to 2012 there are some signs from an input cost perspective that the new year may bring a somewhat more balanced operating environment.
In that more normal environment the management team remains fully committed to margin expansion as business volumes expand.
Accordingly the company's guidance for 2012 reflects the return of sequential quarterly operating income conversion rates in line with the company's long-term target of 25%.
Interest expense for the quarter was $11.1 million compared to $10.2 million last year reflecting higher average debt levels from the company's stock buyback program.
Other income was $2 million in the quarter up from $1.6 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income and higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
In the fourth quarter the company had an effective tax rate of 26.1% compared to a rate of 27.2% in last year's quarter.
The 2011 quarter includes an aggregate tax benefit of approximately $3.3 million or 31% of the $10.6 million pretax onetime items described earlier.
Excluding these effects the effective tax rate in Q4 2011 was approximately 26.4%.
For the full year 2011 excluding onetime items the company's effective tax rate was 26.8% and we currently expect the same tax rate in 2012.
Net income excluding onetime items was approximately 12.8% of sales in Q4 and 13.3% for the full year a very strong performance.
Diluted earnings per share in the fourth quarter was on an as-reported basis $0.69 compared to $0.74 last year.
After adjustment for onetime items diluted earnings per share was $0.73 in 2011 Q4 compared to $0.74 in the prior year quarter.
For the full year diluted earnings per share excluding onetime items grew 13% over 2010.
Orders for the quarter were 989 million up 4% from last year resulting in a positive book-to-bill ratio of approximately 1.04:1.
As we announced last quarter in early September the company incurred damage at its Sidney New York facility as a result of a flood.
In addition to the loss of approximately $18 million of sales and related margin from the temporary shutdown of the facility in September and October of which $7 million related to October the company incurred onetime charges relating to the write-off of damaged inventory and productive assets in addition to cleanup costs net of insurance recoveries of about $12.8 million or $0.05 a share in the third quarter and $8.6 million or $0.03 per share in the fourth quarter.
The company is in the process with approximately $20 million of financial support from state and local authorities of constructing a new facility in the local area outside of the flood zone to house the majority of the company's New York manufacturing activities.
We expect this process to take about 18 to 24 months and require an investment by the company of approximately $15 million to $20 million over that same period.
The company has full support of its customers for the move and does not anticipate any business disruption as a result.
In late November the company completed the acquisition of FEP a German manufacturer of specialty molded interconnect products for the automotive market with annual sales of about $120 million and excellent profitability commensurate with its high-technology product offering.
In addition in conjunction with the acquisition the company incurred costs for professional fees and transfer taxes of about $2 million or $0.01 a share that under current accounting rules are expense.
The costs have been reflected as a separate line item in the income statement above operating income.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash and cash flow from operations is $169 million in the quarter about 147% of net income for the quarter and 107% for the full year 2011.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
From a working capital standpoint inventory increased about 2% over the September quarter and was up 18% from last year.
Excluding acquisition impacts inventory was about equal to the prior quarter.
Inventory days excluding acquisition impacts increased to 89 days at the end of 2011 from 77 days at the end of 2010.
About half of this increase on a year-over-year basis relates to higher raw material inventory as the company continues to hold a higher level of raw material for certain commodities.
In addition in the fourth quarter certain operations increased inventory levels in anticipation of an earlier Chinese New Year in 2012 in order to ensure appropriate levels of service to customers.
From an inventory days perspective the year-end inventory level is at the high end of the company's historic range and we expect inventory days to decline in 2012.
Accounts receivable was $767 million at the end of the year down 4% from September and up 7% from the end of 2010.
Days sales outstanding excluding acquisition impact increased to 71 days at the end of 2011 from 68 days at the end of 2010.
Given the growth in the company's Asia business we would expect the company's receivable days to remain approximately in this range in 2012.
Cash flow from operations of $169 million along with borrowings under the company's credit and receivables facilities of $112 million and $175 million of cash were used primarily for $27 million of capital expenditures $250 million relating to the acquisition of FEP an increase of $43 million in cash investments and $138 million relating to the purchase of 3 million shares of company stock in the quarter.
The company has approximately 6.6 million shares remaining under the 20 million share buyback program that expires in January of 2014.
As previously announced in October the company's board of directors approved an increase in the company's quarterly dividend to $0.105 beginning with the April dividend payment increasing the yield to just under 1% at the time of the announcement.
At the end of the year our cash and short-term investments balance was $649 million the majority of which is held outside of the U.S.
Our debt stood at $1 377 000 000 bringing net debt to $728 million at the end of the year.
We had availability under our revolving credit facilities of approximately $300 million and the company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remained very strong at 1.4x and 22x respectively.
EBITDA in the quarter for the company was $223 million.
From a financial perspective this was a strong quarter.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much day Diana and I'd like to extend my personal welcome to all of you on the phone today and as well wish you all a happy New Year.
I'm going to highlight first the fourth quarter and some of our achievements in the full year of 2011.
Then I'd like to discuss the trends and progress in our various served markets.
And then finally I'll comment on our outlook for the first quarter and full year 2012 followed by a question-and-answer period.
We're very pleased to report in the fourth quarter revenues and earnings above our guidance despite significant uncertainties in the global economic environment.
Revenues in the quarter were essentially flat to prior year and were down as expected from our record third quarter results.
I am very proud however that our management team was able to secure strong profitability in the quarter achieving industry-leading operating margins of 18.5%.
The achievement of this level of profitability despite the uncertain economic environment and our reduced sales levels is a reflection of the strength and discipline of our agile organization and most importantly of our entrepreneurial management team.
We're very encouraged that the company's financial strength has allowed us to continue our acquisition program in the fourth quarter.
As Diana mentioned we completed the acquisition of FEP a German-based manufacturer of high technology interconnect products for the automotive market with annual sales of approximately $120 million.
The FEP acquisition builds upon our fast-growing automotive Interconnect business positioning us to further capitalize on the expansion of electronic content in automobile platforms around the world.
It's also very consistent with our ongoing successful strategy to acquire complementary companies with strong management leading technology and excellent market presence.
As we welcome this excellent new team to Amphenol we remain very confident that our successful acquisition program will continue to create value for Amphenol into the future.
In addition our confidence in the continued financial strength of the company is reflected in our ongoing stock buyback program as well as the recently announced increase in our quarterly dividend.
Now Diana mentioned the specifics relative to the Sidney flood.
I'd just like to mention here that we are very proud of that team and their recovery efforts following the early September flood.
The factory returned to full operational capacity early in the fourth quarter as a result of what are truly tremendous efforts of our entire Sidney organization together with our vendors as well as our distribution partners.
And we look forward to a very strong future for this important business as we transition to our new facility in Sidney over the course of the next 18 to 24 months.
Now turning to the full year of 2011.
Despite the many challenges in the global economy this year the company was able to achieve new records in sales and earnings per share in 2011.
We produced sales of $3 940 000 000 and earnings per share of $3.05.
And that together with 19.2% operating margins and net income at 13.3% of sales represented truly incredible achievements in that environment.
We're especially pleased that we have continued to expand our market position growing by nearly 11% in 2011 a level significantly above overall industry growth rates.
The company's consistent focus on technology innovation and customer support through all phases of the economic cycle have resulted in Amphenol's strengthening our position across each of our end markets.
In addition our organization has accelerated the development of innovative interconnect technologies.
These developments have allowed Amphenol to capitalize on exciting new areas of the ever-expanding electronics market thereby broadening the opportunity for our future growth.
Our drive to be the enabler of the electronics revolution has been very successful thus far and will be a great driver of our success going forward.
In 2011 we have also continued our acquisition program adding 2 new family members to Amphenol and creating excellent platforms for future expansion.
As we closed the year we find it very rewarding that the Amphenol organization has again built a new platform of strength creating optimism for our future performance.
Now I'd like to turn to the trends and the progress in our various served markets.
And as expected in the fourth quarter customers in many of our end markets reduced their levels of procurement in light of increased uncertainties in the global economy.
Our sales to customers in the military and aerospace market represented 20% of total Amphenol in the quarter.
Sales decreased 11% from prior year on reductions in procurement by defense contractors related to budgetary uncertainties as well as from the continued impacts from the Sidney flood.
However we are very pleased that sales did increase slightly from the third quarter.
Sales into the commercial air market were very strong increasing 15% from prior year and 6% sequentially on higher airplane production volumes as well as the early phases of next generation jet liner production.
We are optimistic that our sales into the commercial air market will strengthen further in 2012 as volumes continued to increase and as the ramp-ups of these new platforms accelerate.
There no doubt remains uncertainty in the defense budgets of many developed economies which may indeed moderate the growth opportunities in the military market to some degree in 2012.
Nevertheless we are confident that the increasing electronic content in military equipment together with our broad program participation and our strong positions in high-growth emerging markets will drive good growth into the future.
We expect demand in both the military and commercial aerospace markets to strengthen in the first quarter and we look forward to a strong long-term outlook for these important segments.
The industrial market represented 13% of our sales into the quarter.
Sales to customers in that market increased 3% from prior year and were at similar levels to the third quarter.
We continue to make excellent progress in broadening our technology offering and increasing our penetration of the many exciting growth segments of the industrial market including in particular alternative energy oil and gas heavy equipment as well as factory automation.
While we experienced some expected slowing of demand in particular in the European industrial market in the fourth quarter we expect the overall industrial market to grow moderately in the first quarter and we look forward to strong momentum for growth in 2012 as our new interconnect technologies continue to proliferate across a very diverse range of industrial applications.
The automotive market represented 10% of total Amphenol in the quarter and sales increased a very strong 45% from prior year and 12% sequentially as we benefited from an increase in both overall vehicle volumes as well as new electronics applications and from the contributions of both the CEMM-THOME and FEP acquisitions both completed this year.
We're very excited by the significant expansion of our high-technology product offering resulting from these acquisitions.
In addition we continue to invest in broadening our organic technology developments leading to a growing presence on a diverse range of new automobile electronics.
We expect demand in the automotive market to increase strongly in the first quarter to approximately 12% of total company sales with the contribution of FEP as well as our continued progress in new interconnect products for on-board electronics as well as hybrid vehicles.
Our sales into the broadband communication market represented 7% of total Amphenol this quarter.
Sales moderated slightly from prior year and declined sequentially by 16% on more pronounced-than-expected seasonality.
While recent pauses in raw material price depreciation have allowed us to achieve margins in the Cable business of 13.1% pricing dynamics in the broadband market remained difficult.
Nevertheless we are encouraged by our increasing position with new Cable and Interconnect products as well as by our strong position in international markets.
We expect demand to improve seasonally in the first quarter and we look forward to continuing to realize the further benefits of our diversification efforts.
Our sales into the information technology and data communication market represented 20% of total this quarter.
Sales in this market increased 3% from prior year with strength especially in storage and server applications and declined by 7% sequentially on an expected pause in procurement activity by customers in the IT market.
Despite inventory corrections throughout the supply chain impacting our sales in the IT market in the fourth quarter the pace of design activity with our strategic customers has actually accelerated.
Our customers are pushing their data center equipment to new levels of performance in order to handle the rapid expansion of data driven in particular by new mobile devices and the continuing spread of video on the Internet.
While we expect demand to remain at these levels or slightly above in the first quarter we are excited by our ongoing new program wins with these new advanced technologies which creates strong potential for 2012 and beyond as customers begin to release their next-generation platforms into the market.
The mobile networks market represented 10% of total in the quarter and sales in that market decreased 20% from prior year and 23% sequentially as operators around the world slowed their build-outs and equipment makers reacted by sharply reducing their inventories and build rates.
We expect demand to increase moderately in the first quarter as production rates increase somewhat from these low levels and as operators begin to expand their network build-outs in order to relieve the pent-up demand for increased coverage and capacity which exists on many networks.
We look forward to further long-term strength driven by our broad design-in positions on new base station platforms as well as our strong presence with the diverse range of global wireless operators.
Sales to the mobile devices market represented 20% of total in the quarter and increased 5% from prior year while decreasing 17% sequentially.
As we had expected some portion of our strong performance in the third quarter was related to a pull-ahead of demand by certain customers from the fourth quarter to the third quarter thus resulting in an unseasonal reduction in sales in the recent quarter.
We anticipate some seasonal moderation of demand in the first quarter and we expect overall growth in 2012 to moderate from these strong 2011 levels.
Nevertheless we are excited by our strengthening position in the rapidly expanding range of new smart mobile devices in particular tablet computers and the potential that these create in 2012 and beyond.
Our comprehensive portfolio of products for mobile devices as well as our preferred supplier relationships with all major device makers continue to position us strongly in this important end market.
I am extremely proud of the Amphenol organization in 2011 as we have executed well in what can only be termed a very very difficult market environment.
Our successful navigation through the many challenges of the fourth quarter and indeed of the entire year of 2011 confirms once again the resiliency and strength of the Amphenol organization.
The company's superior performance is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages our leading technology our increasing position with customers and diverse markets our worldwide presence our lean and flexible cost structure and most importantly an agile and entrepreneurial management team.
Now looking forward into 2012 and based on constant exchange rates as well as normal seasonal patterns we now expect in the first quarter and the full year for 2012 the following results.
We expect sales in the range of $960 million to $975 million for the first quarter and $4 050 000 000 to $4 150 000 000 respectively in the full year.
We expect EPS in the range of $0.73 to $0.76 for the first quarter and $3.23 to $3.34 for the full year.
For the full year this guidance represents sales and earnings per share growth of 3% to 5% and 6% to 10% respectively.
We're very encouraged by the strong outlook in sales and earnings especially given the many ongoing uncertainties in the global economy.
And I remain extremely confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to build upon our new record levels of revenues and EPS established in 2011 and to capitalize on the many opportunities to grow our market position and to expand our profitability into 2012 and beyond.
Thank you very much.
And at this time operator we'd be very happy to take any questions that may be there.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Sherri Scribner with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a little bit about the long-term guidance for fiscal '12.
If I look at the revenue guidance it's a couple of points maybe 3% or 4% growth.
But if we strip out the FEP acquisition it actually looks flat.
So I just wanted to get a sense you talked about a number of big opportunities in some of your different segments.
Why would your expectations be for relatively flat revenue growth? Is that based on forecast from customers? Or just a little detail there.
I mean if you look at the guidance in fact at the high end of guidance we would be growing organically I think somewhere around 3%.
And in the current environment we actually think that is a very strong and prudent guidance at the same time.
I mean we continue to see opportunities across all of our markets but there continues as well to be just tremendous uncertainty in the world economy.
As we sit here on January 18 2012 and give guidance forward for the next 12 months we think it's important to be prudent in that and recognizing that there have been over the last 12 months many political economic and other uncertainties and I wouldn't say that we're at the end of the rope on all of those things.
But given that environment given as well the -- where we are coming from in the fourth quarter this is really extremely strong guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a little bit of conservatism baked in there it sounds like.
And then just looking at the SG&amp;A.
The SG&amp;A number came down in the fourth quarter a little bit.
Diana what type of SG&amp;A should we expect as we move through fiscal '12 and specifically for the first quarter after you've done all this headcount reduction? Should it be down from where we are in the fourth quarter? Or is it going to be relatively flat? Yes.
Sure.
I mean I wouldn't expect it to come down.
I think that we certainly have a very disciplined approach to SG&amp;A spending and are able to flex it some with demand.
But I think looking into 2012 an assumption that says that SG&amp;A would probably grow about half the rate of sales would probably be the right assumption.
Our next question today comes from Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First of all the company you acquired can you help us kind of gauge -- does it need a lot of restructuring? Are the operating margins on par with Amphenol? A lot of movement you have to do around that or is it kind of you acquiring it and just integrating it and it's already fully rolled out? Then the second question is regarding your M&amp;A strategy.
It looks like the last few M&amp;As have been on the auto side.
Does that now fill your portfolio gap on auto or given the content growth is that an area that you're still a lot more optimistic for where we could expect to see some more integration there? First relative to FEP.
I mean this is not a company that requires any restructuring.
So we are not at all doing that.
We have acquired a management team that has just tremendous tremendous experience and capability and vision for the future and we're very very proud to welcome that management team to Amphenol.
And we are not -- we have not deposited any Amphenol employees in the building.
They are running that company so successfully the day after closing like they were the day before.
Relative to the profitability of the company I think Diana mentioned I mean this is a very very strong profitable company well above their peers in the industry that they participate in and would compare very favorably across any of the markets that we participate in.
So we're very very pleased with that.
It is a real confirmation that there is money to be made in every market when you have technology to offer to your customers.
And that has been something that we have always talked about that if you can create value for your customers by embedding that value in the interconnect products that you sell which allow your customer to in the end have greater value to sell to their customers there's money to be made and you can achieve superior margins and profitability in such an environment.
We're very happy that FEP has that same mindset as we have always had.
And that's why the marriage with them will be I believe very very successful.
Now you are correct.
We have made some acquisitions over the course of the last year year and half in the automotive market.
And I think that is just an indication that that is a market where there has been a real acceleration in terms of the proliferation of new electronics application that now we believe have value and where Amphenol should participate.
If I can just remind you from where we have come in terms of our automotive business going all the way back to when we were making really safety devices and on-board telematics RF-type products that go into the car we have really broadened that offering today as the electronics have broadened across the car.
So I would not tell you that we would not do anymore acquisitions in automotive but we will certainly do acquisitions in all of the markets as they become available and as we work them through our pipeline.
But we're very excited.
I mentioned that automotive will be about 12% of sales in the first quarter.
It's been a very strong growing market for us this year and we expect good things from that market going forward.
Our next question today comes from Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Adam just a follow-up on the comments on the mobile device market.
The comment of moderation in growth for 2012 do you view that as specific to the market or are you being more selective in that end market? Yes.
I mean first let's just recognize that that is a market where we grew this year more than 30% year-over-year.
And we have had just fabulous growth in that market.
So we would not certainly expect to grow anywhere near those levels this year.
I mean that is just outstanding growth.
We are participating in that market on a broad basis.
But I should also say that the smart devices the tablet computers these kinds of devices this is where the content and the opportunity for value is.
And we continue to drive our engineering resources towards attacking those areas of the smart mobile device market and the overall mobile device market where we can create value for our customers.
What will the overall market grow in this year? You would know as well as I what the forecast would be.
But we clearly would not expect to have that kind of big uptick that we had part of which was due to the sort of new advent of tablet computers where we had never participated before laptops and the things that those tablets have been replacing.
But we look forward to that market and we look forward to being a very strong participant in that market going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could follow up with Diana.
Any other comments on the commodity costs in terms of potential impact and in the quarter just completed and as you go through the year what the impact could be? Yes.
I mean I think as you know we don't call out specific impact of individual commodities.
But I think as I said in the prepared remarks we're talking about margin what our expectations are in 2012.
I think we have seen some indication that there seems to be a stabilization in some commodities and better trends in others.
And I think that being combined with what we call a more normal demand environment as we look into Q1 and then into 2012 I think will provide a more normal balance between pricing opportunity in the market volume growth and also the input cost side that we feel will allow us to return to our historical norm of being able to achieve these 25% conversion margins.
And I think as I mentioned from a sequential standpoint in 2012 our guidance does reflect that.
So I would say that if the environment stays as it is today we'd certainly feel more optimistic about sequential margin expansion.
Our next question today comes from Steven Fox with Cross Research.
Two questions Adam.
First of all your comment about design activity accelerating in the IT and datacom space.
Was that -- can you just expand on that? Was that mainly a market comment? Or is there more Amphenol-specific stuff going on that you could elaborate on? And then secondly with regard to the FEP acquisition.
Looking at the molding technologies that you're acquiring is this more complementary to what you're doing? Like how does it integrate or get you more print position in automobile? Yes.
These are fine questions.
Relative to my comment on IT datacom I don't know whether that is a market or an Amphenol but what I can tell you is that our engineers are extraordinarily busy over the whole year but that seems to even accelerate going into the end of the year whereby we see our equipment maker customers focusing on creating core equipment that can manage the data traffic that people are really struggling with today.
And I think this has been kind of a slow-motion tidal wave here this data.
I mean people know it is coming.
They see it coming but it takes some time to spool up that equipment to these next-generation levels.
And we see that really on a worldwide basis when we're working with IT customers in all geographies new entrants to the market the existing leaders to the market.
There is a real race to get to these high speeds.
And as you go down that path towards high speed the challenges the implications for the interconnect products are so much more significant and challenging to deal with.
And so our engineers have just a much much more intensive interaction with these customers to help them solve all of the sort of inherent issues that are around those new high-speed systems.
And I think as we look forward that's obviously going to result in new platforms where we will participate and which can create new bases of growth for the future.
There's no doubt about it the IT infrastructure at companies at universities in the financial services wherever that is there is going to have to be a constant upgrade to deal with that flood of data that is there.
Now relative to FEP it's very astute to see that this is a company that in particular has an outstanding strength in molding technology.
No doubt about it.
This is a very complementary acquisition to Amphenol.
We have already a growing product line of value-add and component level products that go into the automotive market and we look forward to the team at FEP both from a customer innovator standpoint but also from a technology innovation standpoint to be just tremendous participants as we seek to continue that high growth that we've achieved so far in the automotive market.
Our next question today comes from Matt Sheerin with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question just regarding the distribution channel.
I know you've seen an inventory correction like other suppliers and I know that's not a big percentage of your revenue and I also know that distribution plays a big role in your Military business.
So can you talk about order trends there? And have you seen any inventory replenishment from distribution as a result of the Sidney plant and the fact that distribution basically chipped in to help fill those orders? Yes.
No.
I mean as you correctly pointed out distribution is not as significant for us.
It represents something around 14% of our total sales.
For Military it is more significant.
We have not seen any meaningful kind of replenishment as you would put it.
And the channel was very very supportive during the flood and that was one of the reasons why we were able to satisfy essentially every customer during that time period which is not something that is easy to do let me tell you.
Because the customers they still got to build their end systems and there was certainly some damage to parts and to machines.
And so the strength of the channel has helped.
We have not seen the replenishment in any significant fashion.
Would we expect to see that going forward? I think it really depends on the macro environment.
Because I believe that the distribution channel more than most is very responsive to that macro environment.
If they don't feel good about it then they're not going to replenish it.
If they start to feel incrementally better maybe they will start to put some more parts on the shelf.
We have not seen so far though any significant or meaningful distribution comeback.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then on the telecom infrastructure where you talked about incremental weakness in the quarter.
It sounds like it may be a little bit better.
But was that broad-based or specific to any region? And are you getting a sense or do you have a sense that it could ramp through the end of the year based on pent-up demand? No.
I think we see it from 2 sides.
We see it first from the operator side where we work directly with many significant operators around the world with our installation products our antennas.
And there is one where I would tell you that that has been a very difficult finish of the year the spending was very much clamped down upon for whatever reason.
I mean there is all these other mergers and whatnot that have happened in various regions.
But I think we have started to see a little bit of a pickup at least a bottoming I would say in terms of the operator activity.
Relative to the equipment makers it's a little bit more difficult to read because they all had their customers reducing demand.
They had a certain expectation going into the fourth quarter in terms of where they -- what inventory levels and how they had ramped up their supply chains whether they have indeed worked through all of that inventory that they had built up in anticipation of the fourth quarter.
That I have a hard time to say.
We don't have peer visibility into the contract manufacturers and the OEMs and their respective warehouses.
That being said as I mentioned we do expect in the first quarter for Amphenol in that market to sequentially perform stronger than we had off of these low levels.
And I certainly would hope and would expect to some extent that over the course of the year that there would be more of a return to normalcy.
No doubt that the capacity the coverage that exists in the wireless market gets worse and worse every single day.
And so the customers the end customers you and me and all the rest on the phone here we are at one point going to get up and revolt here if they don't have better coverage.
And I think the operators understand that.
They have to really ramp up their build-outs and that's true around the world in all the geographies.
And we look forward to participating and we're well positioned to participate as the build-outs happen.
Our next question today comes from Mike Wood with Macquarie.
My question is another way to look at your outlook.
If you look at your growth in various submarkets compared to your order trends do you think that you're currently seeing the content growth that you've talked about in aerospace military auto smart mobile devices? And is that included in your outlook? Or do you think there might be a pause in that content growth? No.
I would say that we certainly continue to see that content growth.
I mean if you look in the fourth quarter take 2 of the markets that you mentioned here mil aero as well as commercial air we were sequentially essentially on or slightly above the third quarter in that kind of macro environment that is clearly not sequentially flat.
So I believe that is representative very much of content growth.
We see that in particular in commercial aero but we also see that in the defense markets.
Relative to the mobile phone market we grew year-over-year in sort of mid-single digits.
We had a year-to-date -- full year performance in that market growing more than 30%.
I don't think that whole market grew 30%.
So the content growth that we have seen there has clearly been strong.
Do we accelerate that content growth? Do we continue to enjoy the platforms that we've designed in going forward? Clearly we will continue to enjoy that.
We have achieved a lot so far this year and we'll continue to bear the fruits from that.
I think as we look forward into the first quarter and we talked about in our guidance that the mil aero market we expect to go up sequentially.
Again I think that is indicative of expansion of our content across a market that is not necessarily growing at that pace.
Our next question today comes from Steve O'Brien with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Adam can you touch on some of the regional differences in demand perhaps and any concerns you're baking in regarding Europe in terms of the full year guidance? I mean is there assumption that sort of with low-single digit organic growth that some regions will be stronger and others weaker? Yes.
I mean just relative to the results that we have just reported I can tell you not surprisingly in the fourth quarter with our automotive business being as strong as it was and with our mobile business being as strong as it was Europe was a strong performer and Asia was a strong performer on a year-over-year basis.
I mean European sales grew very strongly with the automotive progress that we've made.
Sequentially the whole company was down and I'd say all the markets were down.
Maybe Europe was down less than the others again because of that automotive strength.
As we look forward I mentioned that the industrial market in particular was one where we had seen some weakening in the European industrial market and we would not expect that necessarily to get much worse but I wouldn't say that we have necessarily very high expectations for growth in that part of the market.
Overall we are not factoring in some macroeconomic cataclysm.
I mean neither Diana nor I are macroeconomists here.
We listen to what our customers say.
We do a bottoms-up forecasting based on what we interact with our customers and what we hear and that's really how -- what results in the guidance.
We're not sort of reading the tea leaves relative to whether some country or other will default on their debt.
If that happens we'll deal with it.
I mean clearly the fourth quarter was a quarter that was impacted by macro events around the world.
As we mentioned at our last call if you had asked me at the beginning of the third quarter what would the fourth quarter be I certainly would not have told you it will be down 8% sequentially.
And there were a lot of sort of governmental macro political economic issues that came about.
I don't know that those have necessarily fully resolved themselves.
But clearly it seems that we're in a somewhat more stable environment today.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then if I could on the mobile devices side.
I mean looking at the guidance for the first quarter year-over-year basis if I have my numbers right it certainly won't be growing.
I would think that even the most pessimist assumptions for smartphones tablets ultrabooks et cetera still look pretty strong for 2012.
I mean do you expect a potential for accelerating growth noting that Q2 and Q3 were very strong last year but maybe as we exit 2012 Amphenol will kind of normalize to the pace of growth in those markets? Yes.
Look I mean whether we normalize to the pace of growth in the markets I think our goal in all of our markets has always been to outperform the markets that we participate in and I think we've done a pretty good job of achieving that in this market in particular as well as in the other markets.
Relative to what will happen in the first quarter we work with lots of customers across that market.
And there are programs that go up.
There are programs that go down.
And that is part of the reason why we have been successful in many ways.
We have expanded our position for example on tablet computers in particular in 2011.
Going into the first quarter I wouldn't tell you that there's any individual thing that is happening different.
We're just folding up the forecast that we have from our customers which are reflective of what would normally be a seasonality into that quarter.
Relative to the year-over-year performance again there are platforms that come and go.
We are putting tremendous focus on putting our products where there is value for Amphenol.
And there may be occasionally some products where we say we don't want to even participate in that.
We want to be in the products where we can generate the returns for the company that we have become accustomed to and that we really demand when we participate in a market and we feel that that will be the most successful thing for us to run that business.
Our next question today comes from Amitabh Passi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Adam my first question for you was just around bookings.
You had a very strong book-to-bill in the quarter 1.04.
I apologize if you covered this.
I was just curious if you can give us some insight in terms of where you think the relative strength came from.
And also just linearity in terms of orders was there any sort of an acceleration in order trends towards the back end of the quarter? Yes.
Just relative to the linearity actually it was pretty linear throughout the quarter in terms of orders.
So I wouldn't tell you that there was any kind of spike that came at the end or at the beginning.
I mean normally you would have in the fourth quarter a pretty strong October.
I would tell you that in this quarter it was actually pretty linear in terms of both sales and orders across the quarter.
We feel very good about those bookings that we had and not all bookings can be shipped within 30 60 90 days.
But it is a clear reflection across all the markets that we serve in that we believe our customers are growing in confidence enough to give us the bookings that can then support the strong guidance that we've given for the full year.
So we feel very good about the bookings and look forward hopefully to booking more here in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Was the booking strength I guess what I was trying to ask was it sort of broad-based across all your end markets was it specific end markets that...
No.
It was broad-based.
I think I alluded to that.
I mean there are some of our markets that have a very quick turn where the bookings are more in line with the revenues things like mobile devices where you're not booking on long lead times.
But of the other markets which have more normal booking schedules this was quite broad-based.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up philosophically with respect to M&amp;A is your preference to gravitate towards deals like FEP companies that are very technologically robust and easily integrated in your large organization or would you also be open to doing larger deals that might require some heavy restructuring and heavy lifting as long as you can get them at attractive prices? Well look we have a very clear philosophy about acquisitions.
Number one we look for a company that has good people; number 2 a company that has great technology; and number 3 that has a complementary market position.
In general that has led us towards companies that have some of those 3 characteristics and FEP has really all of them in spades.
Does that mean that we confine ourselves in our acquisition strategy towards only very focused companies of a certain size? Absolutely not.
To the extent that we find companies that satisfy those criteria and maybe even operate at a level of profitability below where we are today we would certainly pursue those.
And that is really regardless of size.
What we're not going to do though is just buy something because it's cheap and it's big.
So I mean we're going to continue to have an acquisition strategy that focuses on paying fair value for companies that have tremendous potential value to Amphenol in the future.
Our next question today comes from Will Stein with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A few quick ones.
I don't think historically you've disclosed bookings.
So maybe you can frame for us a little bit how the 1.04 book-to-bill compares on a seasonal basis to a typical Q4.
Is this a particularly strong bookings quarter from your perspective? For a Q4 this would be a stronger-than-normal quarter.
I think on average if we would go back in time I would think that a Q4 would more -- normally would be kind of a 1:1 book-to-bill ratio.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
Second ultrabooks.
I assume that you're active in design wins in that product.
It looks like it's going to be kind of one of the more popular products this year in terms of development and eventual sales.
First can you confirm that that's a category that you're interested in? And then also maybe talk or remind us which end market you would tend to disclose this in.
Yes.
In fact ultrabooks what those end up being and what our participation will be will really depend on the nature of the product.
I mean we have not participated so broadly in laptops in the past only because the interconnect solutions that are embedded in those products have been relatively off the shelf non-real high-value products.
And so we have really steered away from those over the years.
Whether ultrabooks to some extent have more kind of value embedded in them relative to the interconnect I think that remains to be seen.
I mean we participate with some of them to some extent but I wouldn't say necessarily unless there is a real shift in the total architecture of those ultrabooks that that would necessarily be a huge thing.
Take a tablet is a very different thing.
You're compressing in a tablet a tremendous amount of functionality tremendous amount of data wireless connectivity very very compact interconnect solutions.
That suite of opportunities for Amphenol has created great opportunities for us to make a product for our customer that allows enough value to be made where it's interesting for us to participate.
I think the jury is still out on whether that will be so much in ultrabooks.
Where we are disclosing that in a market segment I don't even know that that's such a significant segment for us to that extent.
If it is more like a tablet we disclose that in mobile devices.
If it looked more like a computer that would probably be in IT.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And one other quick one if I can.
On FEP historically you've had earn-out provisions in your transactions.
Is it fair to think of this as similar to your prior methodology for structuring deals? In this particular deal we don't -- there's no earn-out structure.
Our next question today comes from Amit Daryanani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One maybe just on the industrial side.
I think you guys talked about flat trends in December some growth in the first half.
It's better than the concern I think people had.
I’m just curious is your sense of the inventory correction in that space is behind us? Or is the positive commentary more a reflection of some new wins you've had? Any help there would be useful.
Yes.
I mean relative to industrial I think we have had a very very strong year in industrial Amit.
I mean we grew essentially for the full year by 17% in the industrial market.
I think we have made just tremendous tremendous progress in broadening our portfolio of technologies across that market.
Going into all these new subsegments of the market and so from that perspective I would probably say that our performance is a little bit more that we have broadened our position rather than just the tide going up and down in industrial.
I mean we are really hitched to some of the very high growth opportunities in the industrial market things like oil and gas things like solar high-speed rail markets in China and India places like that where there is a lot of industrial activity ongoing.
I did mention before that we have seen in Europe in particular some moderation of the growth there and hopefully even some bottoming out of that performance in Europe.
Looking forward relative to inventories I wouldn't really credit our performance in the quarter to a rebuilding of inventories.
And how those inventories will proceed going forward that is actually less of a concern to us than are we getting the positions with these new customers and these new applications with the new products that we're developing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then 2 quick follow-ups maybe.
One on the full year guide of 3% to 5% growth if I just look at the FX at this point it looks like it will be 150 basis headwind for you guys in 2012.
Is that roughly what you're encapsulating in your guidance as well? Yes.
I think the organic is about -- is 3% at the high end Amit.
So there's about a 2% net between the acquisition impact and the foreign exchange impact.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just finally the $257 million I think that cash paid for acquisitions is that also the FEP transaction? Or were there some past payouts in that number as well? No.
This was for the FEP acquisition.
Our next question today comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
First question has to deal with the Broadband Cable business 13.1% EBIT margin this quarter.
Would you expect that to be the peak as we move into 2012? Or do you think you can see some upside in profitability as volumes ramp given the commentary regarding the pricing environment? Yes.
We would hope I mean that we could see some further upside as volumes ramp depending on what commodities do from here.
But I think in general we've seen a positive impact on cost in the fourth quarter.
We would expect to see some further positive impact in Q1.
And if we get some volume along with that I think we should be able to see some movement in margins up above that 13.1% we achieved in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then my follow-up has to deal with the military defense market growing nicely in aerospace.
But looking at the 2012 guidance what type of I guess sales decline would you expect out of the military market given the trends you experienced in the back half of the year? Yes.
I mean actually I wouldn't tell you that we would necessarily anticipate a sales decline for the full year of 2012.
I think we expect that market to be moderate in the context.
But certainly we would not anticipate a sales decline.
I mean clearly we had this year some lost sales from the flood.
We hope to make up a good portion of that throughout the course of the year.
And those efforts that we have had ongoing to offset the budgetary issues with the expansion of electronic content and really a repositioning of resources towards the areas where money is still being spent in the military.
And there are clearly still areas being spent in the military.
I mean even with the recent -- the President going to the Pentagon and talking about all the things that are going on without much specificity I should say there are still tremendous opportunities that our teams see.
And our teams are not working at the kind of Washington level.
They are working in the labs.
They are working with the program managers where there are continually programs that are being developed new programs existing programs foreign military sales which is becoming an increasing priority with many of our customers today.
And so we see still the opportunity for growth in that market.
And relative to commercial air that is the market where we see obviously stronger growth potential going into this year as those new platforms really "take off " so to speak.
And I think that there's going to be great opportunities really in that market and long term for both of those markets.
Our next question today comes from Tony Kure with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Just had a quick question regarding the acquisition.
Would it be fair to read into the fact that the acquisition this most recent one the German company is maybe a result of the uncertain macro environment there where potential acquisition targets maybe in the region are more open to discussions with you given the uncertainty of their own environment? Yes.
I wouldn't necessarily read that into it.
I mean every acquisition has a certain ownership which has a certain time frame to sell.
I think in this case the ownership of the company had made a decision long before Greece and all of these things that they had a certain schedule and that was the schedule they were going to live to.
So I would not at all read anything into that.
They're selling when the sky is falling.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a little clarification on the $18 million or so of lost sales.
First was that all military? And then second do you expect to get that more weighted in the first half or the second half of 2012? It's primarily in the defense market a small amount in the commercial air market.
And we would expect to recover that during the year whether it's in one specific quarter or the first half or second half of the year I couldn't really say.
But I think by the end of the year we expect to have those sales fully recovered.
Our next question today comes from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Adam on the FEP acquisition can you share geographically where the revenue exposure is for FEP? It sounds like it's largely Europe.
And given the high tech content is it overexposed to any particular segments of the auto market? And I have a follow-up for Diana.
Sure.
No it's a nice question.
Obviously they are based in Europe and they have a predominance of their business in Europe.
But they have also a growing business in Asia in part with European OEMs.
Relative to the technology and the platforms that they participate on they are a very broad supplier into a broad range of platforms ranging from low-end high-volume cars all the way to the highest luxury vehicles.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Diana I know you don't roll off raw material costs but it sounded from your prepared commentary that there's an implicit assumption that raw material costs don't necessarily move maybe they move in tandem with demand to get to that 25% incremental margins which has been your historical performance.
Is that the right way to think about it? Or are the headcount reductions been such that you can absorb more volatility around raw materials at this point and still get to those conversion margins? No.
I think your first statement is exactly the right way to think about it.
I mean we've seen some improvement in most of the commodities but we've also seen -- we see as we go into 2012 I think also some improvement in the demand environment.
And it's really that balance -- well it was out of balance in 2011 that caused most of the difficulty from a margin perspective.
And so we do feel that based on those 2 facts we see more of a balanced environment in 2012 and we do believe that we should be able to therefore expand margins.
At this time I have no additional questions in the queue.
Well thank you all very much.
And again we appreciate your time and your interest in the company and once again wish you a happy New Year and a successful beginning to 2012.
Goodbye.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the First Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome you all to our first quarter call.
Q1 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the first quarter achieving sales of $982 million and EPS of $0.77 hitting the high end of the company's guidance.
Sales were up 4% in U.S.
dollars and 5% in local currencies compared to Q1 of 2011.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and foreign exchange sales in Q1 2012 were about the same as last year.
Sequentially sales were up 3% in U.S.
dollars and 2% organically from Q4.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components our Cable business which comprised 7% of our sales was up 17% from last year and 20% from last quarter.
The Interconnect business was comprised 93% of our sales was up 3% from last year and 2% sequentially.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income for the quarter was $185 million compared to $186 million last year.
Operating margin was 18.9% in Q1 2012 up from 18.5% in Q4 a strong sequential conversion margin of approximately 30% from Q4.
Q1 2012 ROS of 18.9% compares to a very strong Q1 2011 ROS of 19.8%.
Year-over-year reduction in Q1 is mainly attributable to lower margins in our Interconnect business which were 21% in the quarter compared to 22.1% last year.
This was partially offset by an improvement in the margin in our Cable business from 11.8% last year to 14.5% in the most recent quarter.
Reduction in Interconnect margin relates primarily to the impact of increases in material input costs versus the prior year particularly for precious metals and plastics.
These impacts were partially offset by the positive impact of cost reduction.
From a sequential standpoint operating margins improved 40 basis points to 18.9%.
This margin improvement relates to good margin expansion on incremental volume in both the Interconnect and Cable businesses with Interconnect margins increasing 20 basis points to 21% and Cable margins increasing 140 basis points to 14.5%.
In addition corporate expenses were essentially flat on higher sales contributing 10 basis points to overall operating margin improvement.
We are very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement this quarter.
2012 has began with a more balanced operating environment from a cost inflation and demand perspective and in that more normal environment the management team has achieved strong sequential improvement in margins and remains fully committed to further margin expansion as business volumes grow.
Interest expense in the quarter was $13.7 million compared to $10 million last year reflecting higher average debt levels from the company's stock buyback program and the higher interest expense associated with the company's January senior notes offering.
Other income was $2.2 million in the quarter up from $1.7 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income on higher levels of cash and short-term cash investment.
The company's effective tax rate in the quarter was 26.8% compared to a rate of 27.5% from the first quarter of last year.
For the full year 2011 excluding onetime items the company's effective tax rate was 26.8% and we currently expect a similar tax rate for the full year 2012.
Net income was approximately 13% of sales in Q1 a very strong performance.
Orders in the quarter were $1 028 000 000 up 7% from last year resulting in the book-to-bill ratio of approximately 1.05:1.
In April of this year the company completed the acquisition of Nelson-Dunn a U.S.
manufacturer of high-technology value-added interconnect assemblies for the oil and gas market with annual sales of approximately $45 million.
This acquisition complements and strengthens the company's offering of harsh environment products for the fast-growing energy markets.
The company paid approximately $55 million for the company.
We continue to be excellent generators of cash.
Cash flow from operations was $164 million in the quarter approximately 130% of net income and we continue to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
From a working capital standpoint inventory was at $659 million at the end of March up 1% over the December quarter.
Inventory days declined 1 day to 88 days.
Accounts receivable was $771 million at the end of March and day sales outstanding fell 2 days at the end of the quarter.
Accounts payable was $403 million at the end of March and from a day’s perspective improved to 1 day at the end of the quarter.
At the beginning of 2012 the company issued $500 million of senior notes due 2022.
Notes were sold at a slight discount and carry a 4% coupon.
Proceeds from the notes were used to repay borrowings under the company's revolving credit facility which matures in 2016.
At the end of the quarter borrowings and availability under the facility were $216 million and $784 million respectively.
The note issuance has a number of benefits for the company including the extension and staggering of the company's debt maturity schedule the continued expansion of the company's investor base and an increase in the company's availability and liquidity.
From the basis of the new debt structure the company expects Q2 interest expense to be up slightly from Q1 levels.
Our cash flow from operations of $164 million along with net proceeds from the notes sale of $494 million cash and short-term investments of $12 million and $28 million of option proceeds rate were used primarily for repayment of $481 million of borrowings under the company's revolving credit and receivables facilities net capital expenditures of $32 million the purchase of approximately 1.5 million shares of the company's stock for $82 million dividend payments of $2 million and an increase in cash of $106 million.
At the end of the quarter the company had approximately 5.1 million shares remaining for purchase under the 20 million share buyback program that expires in January 2014.
At the end of March cash and short-term investments stood at $743 million the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
Total debt was $1.4 billion bringing net debt to approximately $652 million at the end of March.
Company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remain very strong at the end of the quarter at 1.5 and 20x respectively.
And our EBITDA in the quarter was about $224 million.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent quarter.
Before I turn the call over to Adam I wanted to give you an update on our progress in the flood recovery at our Sidney New York facility.
As we have previously discussed the company together with state and local government is in the process of constructing a new facility in the local area outside of the flood zone to house the majority of the company's Sidney manufacturing activities.
We expect the construction progress to take approximately 18 to 24 months and require an investment by the company of approximately $40 million to $50 million offset by government incentives of approximately $25 million to $35 million for a net investment of approximately $60 million.
A portion of the government incentives will be paid out to the company over an 8- to 10-year time period.
The company has full support of its customers for the move and does not anticipate any business disruption as a result.
Relative to sales we experienced no disruption in manufacturing activity or sales in the first quarter of 2012 and continue to expect the full recovery of approximately $18 million or so in lost sales as we go through this year.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Thank you very much Diana and I'd like to extend my welcome to all of you here on the phone today.
I'm going to spend a couple of minutes to highlight some of our achievements in the first quarter that are notable for my perspective then I'm going to discuss some of our trends and progress in our served markets and then finally I'll comment on the company's outlook for the second quarter and the full year 2012.
I'm very pleased to report results in the first quarter above the high end of our guidance despite continuing uncertainties in the global economic environment.
As Diana mentioned revenues increased 4% from prior year and 3% sequentially.
Importantly orders in the quarter reached a new record $1 028 000 000 representing a 1.05 book-to-bill certainly creating confidence for the future.
We find it especially rewarding that our management team's intense focus on managing all elements of profitability led to stronger sequential conversion margins and resulted in our operating margins expanding to 18.9% in the first quarter.
I'm very proud of the agile and entrepreneurial Amphenol organization.
All of them are capitalizing on the many opportunities created by the revolution in electronics and are continuing to demonstrate the strength and discipline necessary to drive strong operating performance for the company.
In addition we're very excited that our acquisition program continued to create significant value for the company.
As Diana mentioned in early April we completed the acquisition of Nelson-Dunn.
Nelson-Dunn is a U.S.-based manufacturer of high-technology value-add interconnect products for the oil and gas market with annual sales of approximately $45 million.
This important acquisition builds upon our industry-leading offering of products to oil and gas exploration and drilling customers allowing us to offer total interconnect solutions to this important and dynamic market.
This is a market where Amphenol has very clear leadership position in the interconnect industry.
It's also consistent this acquisition with our ongoing and successful strategy to acquire complementary companies strong management leading technologies and excellent market presence.
As we welcome the strong new team to Amphenol we remain very confident that our successful acquisition program will continue to be a great contributor to Amphenol in the future.
Turning to the trends and progress in our served markets.
Once again our results in the first quarter confirmed that the end market diversification of Amphenol is a tremendous asset for the company.
First the military market represented 15% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in that market declined by 9% from prior year on continued conservatism by defense customers.
It increased by 5% sequentially as customer demand stabilized and as our flood recovery efforts were completed.
While there is still some uncertainty in the defense budgets of many developed economies we are actually very encouraged to be seeing many clear indications of expanding investments in new electronic functionalities in military equipment.
We expect demand in the military market to strengthen further in the second quarter and we believe that the increase in military electronics is a real opportunity for continued long-term growth in this important market.
Commercial aerospace market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter and sales increased a very strong 27% from prior year and 15% sequentially an increased jet liner production as well as growing content on new airliner platforms.
We continue to be encouraged by the technology transition that is occurring in the commercial air market.
New airplanes are adopting innovative electronic features and are incorporating in particular new hire technology interconnect solutions to enhance fuel efficiency.
Looking forward we expect stable sales at these higher levels in the second quarter and we continue to have a positive outlook for this market in 2012.
Our sales into the industrial market represented 12% of total company in the first quarter and sales increased 9% from prior year as well as 9% sequentially on stronger demand across most areas of this market.
We continue as a company to make excellent progress broadening our technology offering and increasing our penetration of many exciting growth segments of the industrial market including in particular alternative energy oil and gas heavy equipment and factory automation.
In particular we are very excited anticipate strong momentum in the oil and gas segment with the addition of Nelson-Dunn.
We expect the overall industrial market to strengthen further in the second quarter as new interconnect technologies are adopted across a wide variety of applications and segments in this market.
Our sales into the automotive market represented 12% of the company in the first quarter.
Sales increased a very strong 66% from prior year and 27% sequentially as we continue to benefit from an increase in vehicle production volumes and new electronics applications together with a significant contributions from our recent automotive acquisition.
We have been very successful in our drive to broaden the company's automotive product offering both through internal technology developments and our continued focus on acquiring complementary companies in this market.
In particular we're very pleased that that has resulted in the automotive market now representing 12% of our total sales in the first quarter.
We expect demand to remain stable at these higher levels in the second quarter and look forward to continued long-term progress in this exciting market.
The mobile devices market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased 5% from prior year a stronger sales of products into new tablet computer platforms was more than offset by reductions in sales of mobile phone products due to dynamics in that segment.
Sales declined 16% sequentially as expected on normal seasonality.
We expect demand to strengthen from these levels in the second quarter and remain excited by our strong position in new smart mobile devices in particular tablet computers and the potential that these create in this year.
We have a very strong technology position in this important end market due to our comprehensive portfolio of products for mobile devices as well as our preferred supplier relationships with all major device makers.
Mobile networks market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased 21% from prior year but increased by 6% sequentially.
Although wireless spending remains at lower-than-anticipated levels we are encouraged by this recent uptick in demand as equipment makers are working through their over-inventory positions and as mobile operators resume spending on system upgrades and expansions.
We expect demand in the mobile networks market to increase further in the second quarter as operators ramp up their network build-outs in order to relieve the pent-up demand for increased coverage and capacity which exist on virtually all wireless networks.
And we look forward to further long-term strength driven by our broad designing positions on the many new base station platforms as well as by our strong position with the diverse range of global wireless operators.
Information technology and data communications market represented 20% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased 8% from prior year with strength in particular in networking equipment and servers and declined slightly from the fourth quarter on a continued moderation procurement activity by customers in this market.
As our customers continue to strive for new levels of equipment performance in order to handle the dramatic expansion of data traffic that's ongoing our pipeline of new design opportunities with our next-generation products has strengthened significantly.
We believe that the recent pause in procurement activities should moderate going forward leading to higher levels of demand in the second quarter as these next-generation systems are released to the market.
Broadband market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter and sales in that market increased a very strong 14% from prior year and 19% sequentially as we benefited from increased spending by cable operators as well as from accelerating sales of new value-add products into both cable systems and head-in equipment.
We're encouraged by our increasing position with new cable and interconnect products as well as by our strong position in international markets.
In particular these high-technology products helped in part to support the increase in our cable margins to 14.5% in the first quarter.
We expect demand to further improve in the second quarter and look forward to realizing the further benefits of our diversification efforts.
In summary with respect to the first quarter I'm extremely proud of our organization as we continue to execute well in what is still a very challenging and no doubt dynamic market environment.
In particular we're pleased with the company's renewed expansion of our industry-leading margins as well as our sustained financial strength.
Amphenol's superior performance is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages our leading technology our increasing positions with customers across the diverse range of markets our worldwide presence truly lean and flexible cost structure and most importantly an agile and entrepreneurial management team.
Looking forward based on constant exchange rates as well as based on normal seasonal patterns we now expect for our guidance in the second quarter as well as for the full year of 2012 following results.
We expect sales in the range of $1 040 000 000 to $1 055 000 000 and $4 105 000 000 to $4 190 000 000 respectively.
We expect EPS in the range of $0.82 to $0.85 for the second quarter and $3.30 to $3.38 for the full year.
For the full year this guidance represents sales and earnings per share growth of 4% to 6% and 8% to 11% respectively.
We're very encouraged by the strong outlook in sales and earnings especially given the many continuing uncertainties in the global economy.
There is still an ongoing revolution in electronics and that revolution continues to create many opportunities for Amphenol.
I am confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities and to grow our market position and expand the company's profitability and thereby to drive the continued superior performance of Amphenol.
Thank you very much.
And operator at this time we'd be very happy to take any questions.
Our first question comes from Craig Hettenbach from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Adam can you touch on capital allocation? It looks like M&amp;A is coming back a bit but you're also buying back stock you recently increased your dividends so just an update on your overall approach there as you go forward? Sure.
Maybe I can take that one.
I mean I think that we clearly continue to feel that the company's financial strength is an important strategic advantage that lets us take -- really take advantage of opportunities that come along to deploy that strength as they present themselves.
This bond deal that we did at the beginning of the year I think even further strengthened the company from a liquidity position perspective.
As you know we used most of that to pay down revolver borrowings.
And so at the end of the quarter we had about $1.5 billion of capacity between the cash and revolver availability not to mention the strong operating cash flow that the company continues to generate.
From a prioritization perspective and to get to your question I think that we continue to prioritize the use of that financial strength certainly towards our acquisition program.
I mean this I think we both believe that this remains the best strategic and return potential for the company.
We closed the acquisition in April that Adam just referred to and we continue to see a lot of potential for acquisitions as the industry continues to consolidate.
This continues to be a very important focus for the entire team.
Last year as you know acquisitions contributed just shy of 1/3 of our growth and we expect to continue to have the program make a strong contribution in 2012 and beyond.
In addition to prioritizing the financial strength for use in the acquisition program we continue to view both stock buyback and dividend as good options to return value to shareholders.
Last year we bought about 13 million shares.
In Q1 we bought about 1.5 million shares.
We've got just over 5 million left on the current program and we -- in addition to that increase we proved an increase in dividend to just under 1% yield I think back in the fourth quarter at that time of the announcement.
And so as we go along I think on a quarter-to-quarter basis we're going to be looking both to continue to fund the acquisition program and I think you'll also see us look at stock buyback as a good option.
We will also continue to reconsider the dividend level as we go along.
And I think that you'll see us just deploy a very thoughtful and balanced approach to using the company's financial strength.
Let me just also add Craig I mean as much as this all come down to you have heard many times us refer to the agility of our management team.
And no doubt about it as Diana works and I work together with drawing our capital structure we also strive to have agility and flexibility and importantly relative to the acquisition program and we continue to see excellent opportunities in that program.
We're very excited.
In the last 2 quarters each of those quarters we've had a very nice acquisition in a real diverse array of market and we still have in our pipeline great opportunities looking out into the future.
It is the market the interconnect market which naturally creates these great acquisition opportunities.
And it is through that financial flexibly that we have together with the organizational flexibility and the unique structure that we have that makes of those acquisitions so viable and create so much potential value for the company.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
If I could just ask one follow-up Adam just you commented on the record bookings and 1.05:1 book-to-bill.
Can you talk about just the visibility that you're seeing from your customers today and maybe how that compares to recent months? Yes.
We're very excited by the bookings in the first quarter and we had a positive book-to-bill in the fourth quarter as well and that's really what gives us the confidence to have the strong sequential outlook looking into the second quarter.
I wouldn't tell you necessarily that this ability has gotten noticeably better or worse compared to the fourth quarter or the third quarter I think customers continue to be cautious.
We see across all the markets still caution.
I mean every one of our markets you hear every day about some sort of dynamic let's put it that way that is happening.
And I think in such an environment where the macroeconomic environment is uncertain and where there continue to be internal dynamics to those markets customers don't want to overextend themselves.
So what does that mean for us as a company? It means that we got to just be reactive and we got to have our operational excellence at such a pace that we can convert those orders in the short time that sometimes they're given to us.
I would not tell you that the orders are due to customers just pulling out the lead time because they now feel very different than they did 3 months ago.
Your next question comes from Amitabh Passi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Adam my first question just had to do with a couple of your end markets.
I think the first one on everybody's mind is an explosion at a chemical facility in Europe.
Just wondering if you're hearing or seeing anything from your automotive supply chain how concerned are you about this? And then just related -- or on the wireless infrastructure side you talked about some strengthening late in the quarter.
Just curious how broad-based that was or were they specific to any certain geographies? Sure.
Well with respect to this unfortunate explosion in Germany we have not seen any impact to certainly our products.
It's not -- the resin that was involved has nothing to do we understand with any of the connector or cable assembly products that we make.
So we don't have any direct impact.
What I understand is that some of the automotive OEMs in particular those outside of Europe are somewhat concerned about the availability but that the Europeans are not so concerned.
And our product is predominantly sold into the European market.
Europe is still the large portion of our automotive business.
And we have not heard anything from any of our customers suggesting that this will have any significant ripple effect into our business at this point.
Obviously it's unfortunate.
I think some people died in the explosion and I know that the automakers are convening to try to find a quick solution here.
Relative to wireless infrastructure it is true.
We saw some strengthening in the quarter certainly from a sequential basis even if it is still down quite significantly on a year-over-year basis.
I think there was significant inventory positions that were built.
We talked about this last quarter.
Where the expectations of our customer going to the fourth quarter were just very different then in the end the demands from their operator customer.
I think that is starting to work its way out.
I think we've seen some of those benefits.
And then we're starting to see the early signs sort of the proverbial green shoot of the build outs of some of these next-generation networks in certain markets and I think that is manifesting itself as well in that sequential performance.
And we look forward to further sequential strength in that market even if still that is -- we're not happy where it is on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> And then just as my follow-up Adam I was listening to a semiconductor company this morning and they were talking about the mood in Europe being marginally better.
Just wanted to get your perspective talking to industrial automotive your broad set of customers how would you say the general overall mood is spending environment is thus far this year in particularly Europe? I think it's very hard to say Amitabh.
I mean I'm not sitting in Frankfurt or the Central Bank here to tell exactly what's going on.
Our customers sell a lot of their products outside of Europe and so I mean you look at the automotive market you look at the machine tool industry in a place like Germany their big market is no longer only in Europe.
And so I think that the impact on our business and on our customers relative to whether that is Spain or Greece or whichever country of the week is causing some problems in that market we have not seen any significant impact.
We saw in the fourth quarter some moderation in demand in the industrial market predominantly driven by distribution where I think the distributors more saw "Hey there's a macro issue we should trim back our stock." As we see actually still continued good performance in Europe and in particular the growth been driven by sales in the countries like China of cars of automation equipment and robots and things like that.
So we have not seen any market change in that.
And the kind of clouds that you read about in the paper yes they may impact somewhat the mood of customers but we still see that there's good opportunities there.
And our next question comes from Matt Sheerin from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on another end market Adam for you on the military and aerospace you talked about the differences in there and obviously sounded more encouraging on the commercial aerospace side.
But are you starting to see more stabilization in terms of the Military business? And what's your outlook this year for the defense portion of your business? I think as I mentioned the Military business on a year-over-year basis was down and certainly we don't like any market to be down but we're pleased to see that there was a stabilization in the demand and that we actually grew on a sequential basis by 5% in the Military market.
And our outlook for the second quarter would be to have a further sequential improvement in our sales into that market and not all of that came just from flood recovery.
It came really also from the stabilization.
And the one thing that I would just reiterate is yes we know that the budgets are what they are and there's no doubt about it that there will be budget cuts in certain markets the U.S.
being certainly the most notable one.
But clearly our engineering team the front end marketing organizations that we have in our military businesses they are working at a pace actually that is quite significant on new electronics application the customers in the military market.
I mean applications you would normally think well that's probably going to get cut.
But in fact the military is striving to find new electronics that can allow them to save in the end money.
And whether that is a UAV where you don't have to train the pilot whether that is an early warning radar system that is different from an AWACS plane you name it there are a lot of new technologies that the military is developing today actually with a real sense of urgency.
It will create budget savings over the next decade and I think it's those areas where electronics create a real bang for the buck that we see the true opportunity to continue to sustain that business and to have that business be a contributor to Amphenol in the future.
And I think what's encouraging over the last couple of quarters is that the design activity.
The activity engineer to engineer with our customers is not slowing down and to the contrary appears to be moving at a pace that would suggest that there's great opportunities ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And just as a follow-up looking at the incremental margin contribution last quarter pretty strong at 30%.
Looking at your revenue and EPS guidance for the June quarter that implies sort of a mid-20s number which is still pretty strong.
As we look at through the rest of the year on a higher volumes do you expect similar contribution or would that be lower because you're coming off of a lower base here? I think Matt from a sequential perspective we're looking to sort of meet or beat the 25% sequential conversion margin target.
And we did very well from an execution standpoint in the first quarter.
I think the operating team really came through with a strong performance.
As you said that's incorporated also around that 25%-plus level in Q2 and we would expect to continue that type of a performance on a sequential basis as we move through the rest of the year.
And our next question comes from Wamsi Mohan from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Diana you noted that the interconnect margins year-on-year were pressured by raw material headwinds which were offset by some cost reductions.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about pricing as a lever to offset that pressure.
Is it demand environment such that it's extremely difficult at this point to push through price increases and what are your expectations for price increases as you go through the course of the year given that the recent book-to-bill trends have somewhat improved? Yes I mean I think in general we feel that the overall environment economically is a lot more balanced than it was last year.
I think that last year there was a real disconnect between the inflationary pressures and demand so I think we feel better in general about the environment which I think means that we would expect the relationship between cost and price to be more normal.
And in terms of what is the aggregate impact of pricing on the businesses isn't typically a number we compute or disclose because the business is so diversified and the markets really vary.
Pricing trends tend to follow the pricing trends that the end equipment that we sell into have.
And so you have what is typically some relatively significant price pressure in the communications pieces of the market and it's less so when you get into the industrial and then into the defense market.
But I think that we do feel that the environment is more balanced and we feel good about the profitability we were able to achieve in the first quarter.
Our guidance reflects a continuation of what we would view as more normal conversion margins allowing us to continue to expand margins sequentially as we go along during the year.
So I think that that balance between cost and pricing we expect to be better in 2012 than it was last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Diana and as a follow-up maybe a quick one for Adam here.
For the commercial aerospace market Adam can you give us some sense of what the incremental contribution would be if we split it from unit growth and content growth.
I mean it's great if you could give that level of detail but if not can you just comment at least on which will be a larger driver would it be sort of the unit growth or is it sort of more of the content growth on top of that? Yes I mean I'm not going to go into a lot of specifics for competitive reasons but let me just tell you that as we look forward obviously we have some content on existing platforms and as the units go up that can be a good contributor.
But as I've talked about in the past the new airplane platforms have not only a tremendously higher degree of interconnect content but the technology underlying that product is also more complex.
And thereby it's something where our engineering know-how has really proved to show a lot of value with our customers and thereby our participation is broader.
And so I would just tell you that as new platforms ramp up as they get released clearly there is a more multiple -- multiplier effect on that because the units will grow together as the content grows.
And so I think that that contribution when those planes reach a full volume would certainly be more than the contribution of growth of legacy platforms.
Today those new airplanes are still really more in their infancy and so our growth is probably more balanced between that.
And our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
Historically you've done a great job leveraging SG&amp;A and lowering percentage of sales.
Recently it seems to be tracking sales growth would be above it.
Just given the restructuring you've done late last year what should we expect from this in the near intermediate future? Sure.
Look I think that we have historically as you mentioned have done a very good job in terms of managing SG&amp;A cost.
And we certainly believe that getting a return on that very important investment is important to the performance of the company.
And in Q1 as you point out SG&amp;A was about 12.6% of sales and this is about the same percentage that we had in Q4 and actually a little bit higher than Q1 of last year.
We do try to target SG&amp;A to grow at a slower pace than sales and we've been pretty successful in doing that I think on a quarter-by-quarter basis we do sometimes to have quarters that are a little bit higher.
About 1/3 of the increase over last year is really due to higher stock option expense which was included in SG&amp;A.
It also includes the amortization of intangibles relating to the acquisitions that we do.
So those 2 items put a little bit more pressure on SG&amp;A growth on a year-over-year basis.
12.6% is not the lowest level that we've ever achieved as a company but relatively speaking it's still a very low SG&amp;A level and continues to reflect excellent cost control and efficiency by our operating units.
And certainly the benefit of expansion of SG&amp;A and low-cost places we do continue to deploy a very strong return on investment philosophy with both our sales and engineering efforts.
We also believe that having these costs and profit centers will continue to sharpen the focus and align these costs much better with the overall business objective of growth and profitability.
So we do still expect when we would look out at the full year to see SG&amp;A grow at a slower pace than sales but as I said this can vary sometimes quarter-to-quarter.
We've historically operated with a very efficient and effective SG&amp;A structure.
It's driven great new product development technology expansion and we continue to believe that that's going to be the same as we move ahead.
Very helpful.
And the Cable segment operating margins had a very big move up how much would you attribute to internal actions versus just the competitive landscape? Yes the increase in margins in Cable was certainly influenced by some degree by the big increase in volume that they experienced.
In addition to that I think as Adam said in his comments the mix of product there was a mix that included some more value-added-type products where we're able to achieve higher margins.
And in addition to that the particular materials that are used in that particular business particularly in the Cable which are aluminum and copper these are 2 materials that are somewhat better than they were on a year-over-year basis.
But from a sequential improvement this is really the volume and the mix of products.
Your next question comes from Shawn Harrison Longbow Research.
Just a quick follow-up to that last point before I get to my other question.
With the mix benefit from the more value-added this quarter do you expect Cable margins to hold within this range going forward? And then the follow-up question is just considering the implied organic growth within the updated guidance for the year still around 2% which while good on an even market is maybe a little bit less than what I think people maybe believe Amphenol's potentials to do.
And so I guess the question is what end markets could drive upside to that organic growth as we look out for the rest of the year? Just to maybe get you a little bit above say where the industry forecast is right now which I think is around 3.5% and I know Amphenol typically doesn't undergrow the industry? Sure.
I'll just take the first part of the question.
I think that we expect in the second quarter to see some volume growth relative to Cable and the broadband market.
I think that we would expect at this point the Cable margins to be somewhere within the same kind of a range that we see in the first quarter.
And Adam if you want to answer the second question? Yes.
Shawn appreciate the question and I think relative to the company's organic growth first of all we are always prudent in how we look at the performance in the year.
We continue to see that there are uncertainties across the markets and the macro environment and so we believe that this guidance today is actually still a very strong and prudent guidance.
To your question of what markets could drive growth and what markets do we have good expectations for.
Obviously some of our markets have great momentum right now.
The industrial market in addition to the acquisition that we've made has had very strong organic growth.
I mean growing last quarter by 9% growth sequentially as well by that same amount.
And we see in the industrial market just tremendous opportunities across the board.
Automotive another market where we believe the expansion of electronics together with not such a bad unit growth really creates for Amphenol a tremendous opportunities here.
I think the commercial air market is one that we've spoken about as well where we see that that's a market that should outperform the total company and clearly has potential beyond even those expectations.
Obviously dependent on the timing of when platforms fly and which platforms those will be.
But clearly the order intake by the commercial air industry continues to be very very strong.
I mean they really do not let up in terms of the number of orders that are being given to the major plane makers.
Those are markets where I think we have good potential.
We obviously would hope that an IT market where we've had a couple of quarters or more of what I would call a pause there is absolutely the demand among enterprises and carriers and institutions to upgrade their data networks to deal with the flood of data that is hitting them.
I mean whether it is the mobile devices that are there whether it is cars that are now connecting to the Internet you name it there is just a tremendous tremendous increase in the type and the quantity of data that is going through the system and that's at every step of the chain so to speak.
And so I believe that the IT market is one where the spending has to come.
What is the timing of that spending is very hard to predict.
And is that going to be all at once? Probably not.
But our companies and service provider is going to wake up and say "We've got to increase our capacity." I think that will happen at some point.
And I also believe that that same dynamic is true in wireless infrastructure even if today we are at much lower levels than that market was in the past you just have to be a consumer like I'm sure we all are on the phone to know that the service is still terrible and that the potential of what the wireless networks can do and can -- the experience that they can provide to their customers is far beyond where they are today operating.
And that just means they need to upgrade their equipment.
So I think those are markets where you could have performance at the same time in light of the uncertainties that are around them this is what we believe is a very strong and very prudent outlook for the company.
And our next question comes from Sherri Scribner from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Adam just following up on some of your comments about the sort of pent-up demand for improved networks.
I know that the telecom has been weak for a number of quarters.
We've had a bit of an inventory build.
It sounds like a lot of companies are a bit more positive on the second half of the year and I wanted to get a sense from you.
Are you seeing more design activity more interest and are you getting a sense from your customers that we might see some improvement in the second half or what are your customers telling you? You're talking here about the wireless market in particular? Research Division</strong> Well not just the wireless market but also the carrier market and...
Sure.
I think we saw in this quarter as I mentioned before in the wireless carrier market a sequential uptick in demand which was very pleasing to see because that had not performed to our expectations previously.
And we saw a good year-over-year growth in the IT market which includes carrier and telecommunication-type equipment.
And is that going to be kind of a second half boom? I don't know that I would predict that there would be a boom in the second half.
But clearly in the fourth quarter there was a tremendous over-inventory position in both of those markets.
I think they're working through that inventory in both those markets.
And I know that empirically there is a demand for the equipment and demand for the capacity that that equipment can create.
So I do believe that there can be a good potential for those markets on a sequential basis going forward in the year.
Again what does that mean? Is this kind of a hockey stick? I mean certainly we don't anticipate in our guidance any kind of such a hockey stick in terms of a massive ramp up in growth in the second half but I certainly would hope that there would be better performance in the second half than in the first half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at your growth rate and the implied growth for this year clearly well below your historical growth levels.
Would you anticipate that as we move through sort of the slow economic recovery and into more of an expansionary period would you expect to be able to get back to your past growth levels or do you think we're sort of in a slower growth environment for the company? No.
Look we have always had a very clear mission of the company.
And that is to outgrow the interconnect market and we have done that over the better part of a dozen years by more than double and while doing that to grow our margins at also a faster pace.
We do not at all give up on that mission far from it.
I think our team has a tremendous conviction to continue that out-performance on the broader market and interconnect market alone is also has a great long-term potential.
I mean I've referred a couple times to what I termed as a revolution in electronics and that is a revolution that drives new functionalities it creates new applications and thereby creates higher technology requirements for interconnect products.
And so we think that the long-term growth opportunity in the industry and the opportunity for Amphenol to outperform that industry is as strong today as it ever was in the past.
You're right I mean we are in -- there is a sort of slow recovery time period that we are in today but no doubt about it this team this management team around the world is fully committed and confident that we'll continue the track record of growth and success that we've had in the past.
Your next question comes from Jim Suva from Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question is regarding the M&amp;A processes -- or M&amp;A pricing environment.
Have you seen any change in pricing over the last few years especially with Tyco Electronics buying Deutsche in the low interest rates? Any change in pricing? My second question is you talked about no change in auto from a resin explosion.
What about from the Kansas tornadoes does that impact your commercial aerospace outlook at all? Sure.
Thank you very much Jim.
And I think relative to your first question on M&amp;A pricing look every company has a negotiation around at an appropriate price.
And I think we don't always pay exactly the same price and what our competitors pay for their price I mean they certainly all have great reasons to do that and so I wouldn't necessarily say that there's any sort of empirical change in the M&amp;A pricing or the multiple these companies will pay.
Our strategy for M&amp;A is a very long-term strategy.
It's one where we incubate relationships with companies and we eventually reach a meeting of the minds with the owners of that company at a price that is a fair and reasonable price from both of our perspectives.
And there's not a page in the newspaper that you can find that says now the new multiple is X Y or Z.
I don't see necessarily that there's a big change.
The one thing that certainly we hear some of is that is there a different willingness of people to sell given certain entrepreneurs expectations of tax law changes.
That may be something that could happen not that we have seen any significance but it's something that you can sort of understand as an outsider as people think tax rates are going to go up significantly so maybe they would choose to sell at a different moment.
You mentioned as well this unfortunate tornado that hit I think Spirit Aero Systems in Kansas this doesn't have any meaningful impact to us and we certainly wish them all well in their recovery.
I mean we have our own history in dealing with natural disasters.
Not tornadoes fortunately but floods and I know that that is a very very strong team out in Wichita and I would be shocked if they did not recover at a much faster pace than the outside world would expect.
And our next question comes from William Stein with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Also on M&amp;A.
Actually it seemed at the end of last year that prices were going a bit nuts with that Deutsche deal and there was also Esterline or Serio [ph] that was very higher multiple and I think the deal you did Adam that you announced last quarter looked to be at a higher multiple but the one that you announced today looks actually less costly.
And I'm wondering if you can comment on profitability or growth on this deal? And then also maybe comment a little bit on the backlog.
I know it's always full of many different types of deals but I'm wondering if there's been any shift in terms of the size or timing or growth or margin profile of the deals that you see as potentially closing in the next year? Sure.
No I think our deal that we closed in the fourth quarter FEP we paid a very reasonable multiple for.
It was -- it would not have been a multiple like the ones that you're quoting of the other deal.
And the one that this quarter we also paid what I would consider reasonable and fair multiple for the company different markets have different multiples as well different companies have different dynamics and risks to them.
Both of these companies were good contributors from a margin standpoint and so there was not a massive difference in terms of the profitability or the growth profile of those companies.
They're both excellent excellent companies and we're very proud to have them both now as part of Amphenol.
And again with the management teams together that were running that company before we have all the same people as part of Amphenol today.
And I think that is a unique aspect of how we do on acquisitions and it also adds more to that value question because for us what is critical in an acquisition is technology and people.
And then is it complementary.
And so as you look at these 2 recent acquisitions and you go back even to the CEMM-THOME acquisition which we did earlier last year all of those companies have not had one change in the management team as they have joined Amphenol.
They continue to run it but they run the company in the broader context of Amphenol with the broader opportunities that we can create for those companies.
And so our goal truly as it relates to these multiples is that in hindsight the multiple should not matter because we will have create a lot of value with those companies long-term on the backs of the same individuals who have created that successful business before.
Relative to the backlog of our M&amp;A pipeline I mean we still feel that's a very good backlog I wouldn't say there's any difference do it.
I mean obviously there have been some big companies who have been acquired recently.
But that doesn't change the nature of our backlog as a company.
We -- it is a fabulous fabulous industry from the standpoint of the opportunities to acquire entrepreneurial companies with excellent technology that are still complementary to Amphenol.
I mean despite the tremendous breadths that we have as a company having really industry-leading breadth of products and technologies in market everyday we happen upon it seems a new company that is in fact complementary despite the incredible scope that we have already built as a company and so that gives me a lot of optimism for the fact that that program can have good continuation in the future and will continue as Diana referred to in her remarks will continue to be a good contributor to the growth of the company long-term.
Your next question comes from Amit Daryanani from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions from my side.
First I was just trying to understand the fiscal year guide a little bit better.
I was at the midpoint of your fiscal year guidance it looks like you're basically implying revenues to grow flat to 1% from June to September September to December yet when you talk about end markets you seem to be fairly positive I think in terms of growth expectations in those end markets.
So I'm trying to reconcile the delta between a positive commentary on the end markets versus the guide that implies flattish back half.
Is that typical Amphenol conservatism or am I missing something there? Well I mean I think Amit as you know we guide based on what we see at the time.
We do a very bottoms-up forecasting process at all of our units and all of our markets.
And if think mathematically what you say I think is correct.
And we obviously have given guidance specifically for Q2 and then for the full year not having given it specifically for Q3 and Q4.
Q3 can sometimes be -- go sort of either way versus Q2 depending a lot and how the communications markets flow depending on product introductions timing and these types of things.
And I think that the guidance as we've put it together at this point is what we believe is prudent and makes sense and it's what we expect at the time and as we go along as we go through Q2 and close out that quarter we'll certainly update the guidance when we get to that point.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess could you talk with the debt that you guys refinanced intra-quarter can you talk about maybe I missed it what impact did that have on the EPS for the quarter and for the full year? Sure.
I mean the $500 million of notes is at about a 4% rate.
These are 10-year notes borrowings under the revolver are probably less than 1/2 that from a rate perspective so it did have some impact.
And I think you can see that in the increase -- in interest expense excuse me between Q4 and Q1.
This is something that we felt made a lot of sense to take advantage of these rates and put in a longer piece of financing than we've done in the past to give us really more liquidity in the short term under the revolving credit facility to allow us to take advantage of different types of opportunities that may come along during the year 2012.
And your next question comes from Tony Kure from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
On the interest expense line I just want to follow-up I think Diana you mentioned that interest expense should tick up a little bit here in the second quarter.
With that number as a placeholder I mean is that sort of the balance or the level at which we can expect interest expense here going forward for the balance of the year then? Yes I mean if you -- under this current structure the bulk of the debt is fixed.
So yes I mean that would be a good assumption to make.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just obviously we talked geographical a little bit about Europe but there are some concerns about a decelerating China too.
Just wanted to get your take on what your outlook would be or what maybe you've heard recently in regards to demand trends and along the lines of deceleration there if you've seen that? I mean I think that -- we read the papers like you do and deceleration from 8% to 7.5% or from my 9% to 8% whatever these numbers are honestly we don't see necessarily that reflected in our business because we don't care so much about the broader macro trend as much as we care about our people buying electronics and our company's buying electronics.
And I think there are certain trends in China which long-term have tremendous positive potential for our company and for our industry.
I mean just think about the automation it has to happen in China because of the increases in labor rates and we have talked about these increases in labor rates in China.
One of the answers to that is the dramatic influx of automation equipment that has to happen and that's just one example.
I mean the high-speed rail that is being installed the oil expiration that is happening in China automotive industry continues to grow.
And even if the growth in units is down the sophistication of the cars electronics that go into the cars is greater.
The domestic commercial aero market is one that clearly has tremendous potential going forward.
And so I think that macro numbers shifting from 8% to 7.5% or even if it were to go lower than that that is not something that I believe necessarily moves our business towards a more negative outlook.
We continue to have a very positive outlook for that market.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And just the last one on the acquisition sort of closed in early April.
So from a revenue standpoint adding to the year is it fair to just assign a small growth number to that or factor that in for your revenue guidance that's included in your revenue guidance right? So would that be a fair linear way to look at the revenue additions for the acquisition? Yes.
And your next question comes from Steve Fox from Cross Research.
Just one question for me.
When you go back over your prepared remarks Adam it seems like you highlighted new product momentum in 3 areas.
One being mobile phones another being information and data comm and third being broadband.
Can you just maybe give us a little bit more color on the types of products you're talking about where they're going into and why you're so excited about those areas? Yes.
Absolutely I'm happy to do that.
I mean I think with the one where I emphasized it the most was clearly in IT data comm and that is a market where because of the data demands that are being pushed onto the network at either the carrier or the enterprise or the institutional level that there is just a real for lack of a better word a need for speed for our customers.
And our innovations that we have been promoting in back link connectors and high-speed I/O and high-speed cable assemblies have really taken stronghold with customers who are just scrounging to find every way possible to pump more data through the same piece of equipment.
And so as the new releases of these equipment come on and there are releases in servers and new storage systems and new networking hardware as those new releases come and as they fill their pipeline of product those high-speed products are one area where we see a lot of potential.
Another potential is really in power where again as related to that data center and the expansion of data center equipment the efficiency of power that customers are asking for is really accelerating in very much a logarithmic fashion.
And so we have been working just intensively with customers help them enable more efficient power interconnect systems.
Those are 2 related to IT.
Related to mobile devices I mean obviously our strength in antennas is one area where as customers have to have new devices like a tablet computer which have to have multiple access points to multiple networks interaction of those antennas with each other the sort of isolation of the signal the ability to fit those products into very very challenging form factors.
These are the kind of new product momentum and innovations that have been very very significant in that market.
I think relative to broadband Diana mentioned that we have seen really strength as well and some of our value-added products and these are new innovative value-added products that help either in home install or in addition in the head end.
The head end is an area where the interconnect creates a bottleneck because especially with the cable base high-speed internet it is really the number of access points in a given piece of hardware that drives the ability to service those high speeds.
And so if you can collapse those access points through a smaller form factor or a higher density solution as one example that creates then value for your customers in the broadband.
Those are just some examples I could go on Steve for hours here and -- but would not want to take everybody's time.
I think that that's -- I think at that point we would wish everybody well and appreciate again all of your interest in the company and wish you a pleasant continuation into the second quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you and good afternoon.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome you all to our second quarter call.
Q2 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will then give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed Q2 achieving new records in sales and earnings per share.
Sales were $1 061 000 000 and EPS was $0.86 both beating the high end of the company's guidance.
Sales were up 4% in U.S.
dollars and 6% in local currencies compared to Q2 of 2011.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency impacts sales in Q2 2012 were up 2% versus last year.
From a sequential perspective sales were up 8% in U.S.
dollars and a strong 7% organically from Q1 of 2012.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components our Cable business which comprised 7% of our sales was up 2% from last year and up 3% from last quarter.
The Interconnect business which comprised 93% of our sales was up 4% from last year and 9% sequentially.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income for the quarter was $206 million compared to a prior year income number of $215 million as reported and $197 million excluding one-time items.
Operating income in 2011 included income of approximately $18 million relating to an adjustment to reduce a previously recorded contingent payment obligation for 2010 U.S.-based acquisition.
Operating margin was 19.4% in Q2 which is up from 18.9% in Q1 a strong sequential conversion margin of approximately 26% from Q1.
The Q2 ROS level of 19.4% is equal to the Q2 2011 ROS excluding the impact of one-time items.
Operating income in both years is net of stock option expense of $8 million in the 2012 quarter and $7 million in the 2011 quarter about 0.7% of sales for both time periods.
From a segment perspective in the Cable business margins were 13.8% up from 12.8% last year.
The margin improvement relates primarily to lower relative material cost.
From a sequential standpoint Cable margins declined from 14.5% in Q1 primarily as a result of a less favorable pricing environment and product mix.
In the Interconnect business margins were 21.6% equal to last year and up from 21% last quarter.
The Interconnect operating margin improvement from last quarter primarily reflects the positive impacts of higher volume and cost reduction actions.
We are very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement in the quarter.
2012 continues to be a more balanced operating environment from a cost inflation and demand perspective.
And in that environment the management team has achieved strong sequential improvement in operating margins both in Q1 and Q2 and remains fully committed to further margin expansion as business volumes grow.
We continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control allows us to react in a fast and flexible manner thereby constantly adjusting the business to maximize profitability in what clearly continues to be a very dynamic environment.
Interest expense for the quarter was $15.1 million compared to $11.4 million last year reflecting higher average debt levels from the company stock buyback program and the higher interest expense associated with the company's January senior note offering.
Other income was $2.6 million up from $2.1 million primarily as a result of higher interest income and higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
Our effective tax rate in the quarter was 26.8% compared to approximately the same rate in the second quarter of last year excluding the impact of one-time items.
For the full year 2011 excluding the one-time items the company's effective tax rate was also 26.8% and we currently expect a similar rate in 2012.
Net income was approximately 13% of sales in Q2 and EPS grew 9% over last year excluding one-time items a very strong performance.
Orders in the quarter were $1 052 000 000 resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 0.99:1.
In addition in the second quarter the company completed the acquisition of Deutgen Group a German manufacturer of high-technology precision injection-molded components primarily for automotive applications with annual sales of about $25 million.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter was $127 million.
For the 6 months operating cash flow was $292 million or 109% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
From a working capital standpoint inventory was $675 million at the end of June up 3% over the March quarter.
Inventory days declined 5 days to 83 days and are now comparable with prior year levels and back to the low end of the company's historical range.
We're very pleased with the reduction in inventory days in the quarter.
Accounts receivable was $840 million and days sales outstanding increased 1 day to 71 days at the end of the quarter.
Accounts payable was $432 million and from a day's perspective was down 1 day at 53 days from March.
Overall we're very pleased with the company's working capital achievement in the quarter.
The cash flow from operations of $127 million along with borrowings under the company's revolving credit and receivables facilities of $149 million and proceeds and related tax benefits from option exercises of $18 million were used primarily for capital expenditures of $32 million the purchase of 2.1 million shares of the company's stock for $119 million payments of $82 million related -- relating to acquisitions including the acquisitions of Nelson-Dunn and Deutgen dividend payments of $17 million and an increase in cash and cash investments of $37 million in the quarter.
The company has approximately 3 million shares remaining under its 20 million share buyback program that expires in January 2014.
At the end of the quarter cash and short-term investments were $780 million the majority of which is held outside of the U.S.
Total debt for the company was $1.5 billion bringing net debt to approximately $764 million at the end of June.
At quarter end borrowings and availability under the company's revolving credit facility were $348 million and $652 million respectively.
And our leverage and interest coverage ratios remain very strong at 1.6x and 19x respectively.
EBITDA in the quarter was approximately $249 million.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent quarter.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana and I'd like to add my welcome to all of you here today on the phone.
I'm going to spend a few moments to highlight some of our second quarter achievements that Diana just reviewed then I'll discuss our trends and our progress in our served markets.
And then finally I'll make some comments on our outlook for the third quarter and the full year leaving time for some questions at the end.
We're very excited to report record orders sales and earnings in the second quarter exceeding the high end of our guidance despite ongoing uncertainties in the global marketplace.
Our revenues in the quarter increased 4% from prior year and 8% sequentially achieving a new sales record for the company of $1 061 000 000.
And as Diana mentioned orders have also reached a new record of $1 052 000 000 representing a book-to-bill of just under 1:1.
We find it especially rewarding that our intense focus on managing all elements of profitability have led to further expansion of our operating margins to 19.4% return on sales.
I'm very proud of the agile entrepreneurial Amphenol organization all of whom are capitalizing on the opportunities that are being created by the ongoing electronics revolution while at the same time demonstrating the strength and discipline necessary to drive strong operating performance in any economic environment.
In addition we're very pleased that our successful acquisition program continued in the second quarter.
As Diana mentioned in June we completed the acquisition of the Deutgen Group a German-based manufacturer of precision-molded components for the automotive market.
This acquisition with annual sales of approximately $25 million builds upon our expanded offering of products to the automotive market and in particular it enhances our capabilities in advanced molding technologies for this important sector.
The acquisition is consistent with our ongoing and long-term strategy of acquiring complementary companies with strong management leading technology and in particular an excellent market presence.
As we welcome this excellent new team to Amphenol we remain very confident that our acquisition program will continue to create significant value for Amphenol in the future.
Turning to the trends and our progress in our served markets.
I think once again our results in the second quarter confirmed that Amphenol's end market diversification is a tremendous asset for the company especially given the widely reported uncertainties in many of the world's economies.
Turning first to the Military market.
That market represented 14% of our sales in the quarter.
And sales declined by 9% from prior year on continued conservatism by defense customers driven in particular by the ongoing budget uncertainties in certain western countries.
On a sequential basis sales were up slightly as our new technology solutions offset the impact of an overall moderation in spending.
In the third quarter we expect demand in the military market to show some typical seasonal declines.
Nevertheless while there remains uncertainty in many of the defense budgets in developed economies we continue to make progress in creating new high-technology solutions for advanced military electronics and we're especially encouraged to be seeing continued indications of investments in these new electronics by the military.
The Commercial Aerospace market represented 5% of our sales in the quarter and sales continued to increase strongly from prior year growing by 14%.
Sales were slightly moderated on a sequential basis due to certain inventory adjustments by customers in the Commercial Aero supply chain.
There is a significant technology transition that is occurring in the Commercial Aero market.
New airplanes are adopting innovative electronic features and are incorporating in particular new higher technology interconnect solutions to enhance fuel efficiency and improve passenger experience.
This all creates a great opportunity for Amphenol.
Looking forward while we expect normal seasonal moderation in the third quarter we have a very positive long-term outlook for the Commercial Aero market in the second half of 2012 and beyond.
The Industrial market represented 15% of our sales in the quarter and sales increased a very strong 17% from prior year and 20% sequentially as we benefited from the Nelson-Dunn acquisition as well as from further strengthening of organic demand in the many diversified segments of our Industrial business.
Our ongoing focus on developing new technologies combined with our acquisition program has resulted in the Industrial market reaching a new high of 15% of sales in the quarter.
We continue to make excellent progress broadening our interconnect product offering and increasing our penetration of the many exciting growth segments of this market including in the second quarter alternative energy oil and gas and heavy equipment.
Although we expect sales in the industrial market to moderate seasonally in the third quarter we look forward to continued strong momentum in this important sector.
The Automotive market represented 11% of our sales in the quarter and sales increased a very strong 35% from prior year and were down slightly on a sequential basis as we had expected.
We are benefiting from a continued increase in vehicle production volumes and new electronics applications.
Together with the important contributions from our recent automotive acquisition we have been very successful in our drive to broaden our Automotive product offering both through our internal technology developments and our continued focus on acquiring complementary companies in this market including the acquisition in this quarter of Deutgen.
We expect demand in the Automotive market to remain stable in the third quarter and we look forward to further long-term progress as we take more advantage of the ongoing revolution in automotive electronics.
The Mobile Devices market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased 4% from prior year as increased sales of products into new mobile computing platform was more than offset by reductions in sales of mobile phone-related products due to dynamics in that segment.
However we are very pleased that sales in the Mobile Device market increased sequentially by a strong 13% as we realized the benefits of our strong position with advanced technologies in many new complex devices.
We expect in the third quarter to see a significant increase in demand in this market driven by releases of new products by a diverse array of mobile device makers who are incorporating our high-technology solutions into their new devices.
We're very excited by our strong position in new smart mobile devices in particular in mobile computing products including tablets and laptops and the potential that these create in the second half of 2012 and beyond.
The Mobile Networks market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter.
While sales decreased 12% from prior year on continued conservatism in that segment we were pleased to see a sequential increase of 11% from first quarter.
We're very encouraged to have achieved 2 consecutive quarters of sequential growth in what has been a very challenging wireless equipment market a clear indication of our strong technology position in next-generation base stations.
Although we expect demand to moderate somewhat on a seasonal basis in the third quarter we look forward to further long-term strength driven by our broad designing positions on new equipment platforms as well as by our strong presence with wireless operators around the world.
The Information Technology and Data Communications market represented 21% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased a strong 12% from prior year and 13% sequentially with strength driven in particular by products used in servers and networking equipment.
We benefited in the second quarter from several releases of next-generation data center equipment incorporating a broad array of our leading high-speed and power interconnect technologies.
As our customers continue to strive for new levels of equipment performance in order to handle the dramatic expansion of data traffic that they are seeing our pipeline of new design opportunities with our next-generation products continues to strengthen.
We do expect in the third quarter to see a slight reduction in sales as some customers in this market have moderated their short-term outlooks based on an increased level of uncertainty in the marketplace.
Nevertheless we look forward to further long-term gains as our high-technology solutions are increasingly adopted in customers' new systems.
Finally the Broadband market represented 7% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased slightly from prior year and we're essentially flat on a sequential basis in what is a stable demand but somewhat less favorable pricing environment among cable operators.
Nevertheless we continue to broaden our technology offering with new cable and interconnect products at the same time as we are strengthening our position in international market.
We expect demand in the Broadband market to improve slightly in the third quarter and we look forward to realizing further benefits from our diversification efforts.
In summary with respect to the second quarter I am extremely proud of the Amphenol organization as we continue to execute well in what is very clearly a challenging and dynamic market environment.
And in particular we're very pleased with the company's new records in sales and earnings as well as the expansion of our already industry-leading margin.
Amphenol's superior performance is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages: the company's leading technology our growing position with customers in the many diverse markets that we serve our presence around the globe a lean and flexible cost structure and most importantly an agile and entrepreneurial management team that thrives in every economic cycle.
Now turning to our outlook.
Based on normal seasonal patterns as well as current exchange rates which incorporates the relatively weaker euro we now expect the following results: For the third quarter we expect sales in the range of $1 080 000 000 to $1 100 000 000 and earnings per share in the range of $0.87 to $0.90.
For the full year 2012 we expect sales in the range of $4 210 000 000 to $4 250 000 000 and EPS in the range of $3.38 to $3.44.
For the full year this represents sales and EPS growth of 7% to 8% and 11% to 13% respectively.
This increase in full year guidance incorporates our strong second quarter results as well as a positive outlook for the second half which more than offsets the significant translation impact from the weaker euro.
Given the many uncertainties in the global economy we are very encouraged by the strong outlook in sales and earnings which reflects in particular the value of the diversification of Amphenol.
The ongoing revolution in electronics continued to create many opportunities for our company and I am confident in the ability of the outstanding Amphenol management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities to grow our market position and to expand our profitability and thereby to drive continued superior performance for Amphenol.
Thank you very much.
And operator at this time we'd be very happy to take any questions if there may be.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Jim Suva from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Adam and Diana can you talk a little bit about -- on the M&amp;A side it looks like your last year acquisitions have been focused on the automotive industry which traditionally has not been as big of a focus for the company.
And I think right now if my math is correct it's around 11% at Amphenol.
The outlook for this do you see this growing to be a more material part of Amphenol going forward like could it eventually be a quarter of the company or something like that? And then in the same vein of Amphenol in automotive one has to be conscious of many of the other automotive connector and supplier companies don't generate the profitability that Amphenol does yet you continue to post industry-high profitability.
Can you help us understand is the profitability of automotive below your sector average at your company average? And why would you be outreaching all those other ones-- competitors? Jim that is a lot of questions in one and I'll see if I can remember them well.
I think your question started off to say we have made some automotive acquisitions.
And yes it's true.
We have made several.
Obviously the acquisition of Nelson-Dunn was very different.
That was in the Industrial Oil and Gas market but we're very pleased with the acquisitions that we've made.
And if we go back and look at the evolution of our Automotive business it has been always our strategy and it is today to participate in those areas of the automotive market where we can create the value with our customers that thereby allows us to realize the returns that we expect for Amphenol.
That strategy has not changed by one iota through these acquisitions.
What has changed though in that time period is there has been a real revolution of electronics in the car driving new applications new functionalities whereby the Amphenol technology offering allows us to create value for those customers and thereby to realize the returns that we expect.
And the returns in our Automotive business we don't talk about what they are by each market but certainly they're very strong and we're very proud of those returns.
If we look in a car today a car in my mind has essentially become a host for new electronic features.
And whatever those features may be whether that's onboard electronics in the cockpit whether that is new engine control whether that is new transmission control whether that is hybrid electronic drive that go into cars what is common with all of these new applications that we're participating in and what is common with the acquisitions that we have made to that end is that these are new functionalities where the interconnect products have a more challenging technology to them and thereby there is more value to be created with the customers.
So this is a very consistent strategy.
I think we have made kind of a change in terms of having those more acquisitions but that is really going along with the fact that we have seen the real explosion of new electronic opportunities in the car and we have made also great gains organically in that market at the same time.
So I think this is not a change Jim.
We're very excited about it.
Could it be 25% of the company I think you said.
And look we're very proud of diversification of Amphenol.
We don't have any market today that represents 25% of our sales.
And I think we look to continue to be a very diverse company.
Could Automotive be slightly more than it is today or slightly less? Absolutely.
We don't set a sort of a goal for that but what it will be is that we'll always be focused on those products where we can create value and thereby can realize the returns that we want.
Our next question comes from Sherri Scribner from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig in to your guidance a little bit.
At the midpoint you guided revenue up about 2.7%.
And then when we look at the segment commentary I think from what I was writing down it looks like you're only expecting the Mobile Devices segment and the Broadband segments to be up with everything else moderating I think it was what you used.
I just want to make sure I understand that.
And also in terms of the Auto segment you commented that that would be stable but I would expect that to be up with the acquisition.
So maybe some detail on the segment guidance as we move into September.
Sure.
I think you're referring specifically to the guidance for Q3.
Is that correct? Research Division</strong> Yes I am.
Yes.
Okay.
And I think that the market growth that you described is pretty much right on from a sequential perspective when we look at the growth as Adam said in the comments that he made.
We do expect to see a significant increase in mobile device sales based on the expectation for our participation in a broad range of new programs that we expect to ramp up.
We expect for I'd say about half of the markets that tend to have a seasonally softer quarter in the summer the Defense market Comm Aero Industrial Auto we expect these to be slightly down sequentially and others to be slightly down to flat.
From an Automotive perspective we also have the phenomenon in the quarter as I think you know relative to exchange and specifically to the impact of the euro.
And so that is a negative from a sequential perspective.
That's more pronounced actually in the Automotive market and essentially offsets the positive impact of the small acquisition that we made.
So that's why Automotive without the negative impact from the euro would to your point with the acquisition be up sequentially.
Does that help? Research Division</strong> That does.
Diana that is helpful.
And then -- sorry if I could just ask about Telecom.
You guys are doing very well in the Telecom segment and I think most of the commentary we've heard from other companies and some of the equipment makers is the telecom segment continues to be very weak.
So I just wanted to understand why you guys are doing so much better than the market in that segment.
Sure.
That's a very good question.
I appreciate it.
Look what we call Telecom we call it IT &amp; Datacom.
I think that's the market that you're referring to and I think we -- our company is doing extremely well in that segment.
We grew 12% year-over-year 13% sequentially and I don't think you would see that performance from any of the kind of ON customers in that market.
Why is that? It's very clear for us.
It's coming because of new programs with new technology.
We are participating on a very very broad basis really across the board with high-speed technologies as these systems have to perform at higher and higher speed to satisfy the demand for things like video on the Internet that's hogging so much bandwidth in the core systems as well as at the enterprise level.
In addition power has become such a tremendous driver for us whereby we are creating new power solutions that go on to this IT &amp; Datacom equipment to allow them to have a more efficient power consumption which is the real sort of other -- the flip side of the data revolution is they're using a lot of power.
And so to the extent that you can create an interconnect solution that enables customers to equip their equipment with a less power-hungry system that allows you to create value for the customers.
It allows you to take broader positions on the new platform and it allows us in the end to outperform the market.
And I think we feel very good about our overall performance.
We have a very very broad position in IT &amp; Datacom and we are present essentially with all customers in that market to some degree or another.
And so it is really not that we are leveraged on just one customer or one program but rather that we are gaining share with new technology solutions on a very very broad basis in that market.
Our next question or comment comes from Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
I just wanted to I guess follow up on that mobility -- the mobile device strength.
Is that -- I wanted to be certain.
It sounds like it's across notebooks tablets and phones.
Is that just a third quarter phenomenon? Or is that something where you continue to see strength throughout the -- through the end of the calendar year? No.
I think -- first of all you're correct that that is really more across the board.
It's not on any one platform.
It's not with any one customer by the way.
I mean it's a very broad position that we have on some of these new devices.
And it's something that -- it was part of what gave us sort of the confidence to raise our guidance both in the third quarter and for the full year.
So that is not just a one-quarter phenomenon necessarily.
And we had strong performance in that market on a sequential basis in the second quarter as well.
It was up 13% in the second quarter.
We've done a great job of really diversifying ourselves into high-value products.
We talked about over the last several quarters -- you may of course recall Shawn we had a quarter -- fourth quarter last year where our sales in that market were actually down more than we would have expected and more than we would have liked.
Sales in the first quarter were year-over-year down.
I think we have never rested here.
We've never sort of said "Well we're not going to keep the focus on creating new technology solutions for these new products." And I think a lot of those efforts that our team has been expending over the better part of the year 1.5 years are really bearing fruit here in the second and even more over in the third and fourth quarters of the year.
Okay.
That's great.
And then just as a follow-up great margins this quarter within the Connector business.
I guess the guidance implies a little bit more limited margin lift in the back half of the year.
Maybe you could talk about maybe the pluses and minuses you're seeing that could lead to some further margin expansion in the next 2 quarters.
Sure.
Look I mean I think we have a great track record from a margin perspective.
And as you say we achieved certainly good profitability in Q2.
I mean I think if we look at the last 2 quarters and go back to the fourth quarter of 2011 we brought margins up from 18.5% to -- in that quarter to 19.4% here in Q2.
And there are certainly a lot of things that contribute to that.
Certainly volume and the operating levers that we're able to produce in the business is the most important part of that.
I think that this comes really through the combination of the strong technology focus that Adam talked about but also a continuous drive for low cost.
The growth in -- from a volume perspective and our ability to convert that at that 25%-plus range I think is the most important aspect for our ability to continue to expand margins.
And this growth opportunity for us is very much driven by the diversity in the business.
The environment right now is -- certainly one would not say it is completely bullish across all the markets that we serve and I think that it's an environment where there's a lot of volatility in demand.
This actually seems to have become more the norm.
And I think the diversity that we have as a company allows us to find the pockets of opportunity for growth that are out there like the ones that Adam was just describing.
When we then combine that with the entrepreneurial management style we have as a company that really maximizes our profitability that produces this leverage that I think we've seen historically and that clearly we've seen in the last 2 quarters.
And we continue to include that 25% conversion margin that operating leverage on incremental sales in the guidance that we gave both in Q3 and in Q4.
There will be some variation in what those conversion margins are.
I think we had a slightly higher conversion margin in Q1 than we had in Q2 but I think we feel very good about the profitability level.
We feel good about the fact that the team is still committed to further margin expansion and that that's reflected in the guidance that we gave.
We always try to do better if we can but I think the 25% conversion margin that we've included is the right guidance and I think it's the right expectation for the second half of the year.
Our next question or comment comes from Matt Sheerin from Longbow Research.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's Matt Sheerin with Stifel Nicolaus.
Just another follow-up on that mobility question Adam.
It looks like your strategy has evolved a little bit where you were very strong in smartphones.
And my understanding is that as those products become more commoditized you're moving upstream into tablets.
And then now you've also mentioned notebooks where you haven't had a lot of presence outside of the RF antennas.
So could you talk about the opportunities in that space smartphones versus tablets? And then also the ultrabooks are they representing the big opportunity in notebooks for you? No.
This is a very fine question Matt.
I appreciate it.
No doubt about it.
When we talk about mobile devices we are certainly -- our view of what a mobile device is has evolved.
And I think that evolution is very natural given all the product transformations that have happened over really the last 48 months 24 months whatever you want to say.
We still have a very strong presence in smartphones but we are also very deliberate about making sure that we participate in those products where we can create value.
And I know I've said that several times on the call so I must sound like a broken record.
But there's no question that there have been some devices that have been released whether it's just not the appreciation of the value for the products that we would make and thus we don't want to participate.
Conversely we have never had a very strong position on computers which evolved into laptops.
But over the recent time period those devices have converged more to become more mobile devices.
I know myself.
I am on my laptop in the car and it is essentially almost like a phone.
I mean you use Skype on it and it becomes essentially a phone that sits on your lap.
And as those devices have become more embedded with more functionalities as the ultrabooks have come along and bridged between traditional laptops and tablets -- and who knows what's going to come next? I mean what do you call a device which is the surface that gets the nod? Is that a tablet? Is it an ultrabook? What is it? I mean -- so I think that there is a real combining of a lot of different functionalities with one thing in common and that is that these devices are mobile.
They're connected to mobile networks.
They're connected to wireless networks somewhere.
You can transport them with you.
And wherever we see the opportunity to enable those devices to have a greater functionality either through the antenna technology either through our interconnect technology through some of the other componentry that we supply into those products we're going to capitalize upon that.
And I think the team is not fixated on just one customer.
That's one thing that's very very important.
Our team of engineers and sales individuals and the factories they are focused on ferreting out every opportunity in that industry because the one strategy that we have not changed is we're not in the business of picking which is going to be the winner.
We're in the business of maximizing our content on attractive platforms and then letting in the end the marketplace to decide what the winner is going to be.
And if we've done a good job of getting our position then we'll win with whatever that winner may be.
And so I think it's a very exciting market for us.
It has been an exciting market for us 17% of our sales in the quarter and we look forward to strong momentum there going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a quick follow-up Diana.
What percentage of your Auto business now is in Europe? I can't give you an exact percentage but somewhere -- probably a little less than 2/3 or so but it would be in that range.
Our next question or comment comes from Wamsi Mohan from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the midpoint of guidance both for the third quarter and for the full year it implies a flat sequential 3Q versus 4Q.
And I'm just wondering is that because you're seeing something in particular that will drive below normal seasonality? Is there something like a pull-in effect that you saw in 3Q in mobile devices last year or something similar to that? Or is it just lack of visibility for now? Yes.
I think that from a sequential standpoint there is a slight difference between the 2 quarters but to your point not much.
I think this is what we see when we look at a very detailed forecast level what the 2 quarters look like.
We -- I think as Adam said we expect to see a significant ramp-up in the mobile device market in Q3 here in the near term.
And I think that that is driving some of the sequential dynamics between Q2 and Q3.
We don't expect a same step function when we look between Q3 and Q4.
So I think that this is based on what we expect the sales to look like based on the details the view of all of the markets that we've done.
At this point when we get closer we'll see what the quarter looks like at that point in time but we wouldn't expect the same type of significant sequential uptick in the mobile device market in Q4 that we're seeing in Q3.
And I think that has some impact with the comparison.
It is not a pull-in though.
I mean I think you're referring Wamsi to a year ago where we saw that kind of significant pull-in of demand from the fourth quarter to the third quarter.
That's not what we anticipate.
I think the guidance does not anticipate a down fourth quarter.
But let's not forget there is a lot of uncertainty in the world today and I think this is very prudent guidance given the level of uncertainty that is in many markets and certainly in many geographies around the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Adam that is specifically what I was referring to.
So I appreciate the color there.
And then Diana perhaps you could address how the pricing environment is.
I mean copper and gold are down both quarter-on-quarter but gold is still up year-on-year.
Is this environment in which you're still able to increase prices? Yes I think the pricing dynamics as you know Wamsi vary a lot from a market-to-market perspective.
And I think they continue pretty much to track the pricing dynamics that one would see in a related equipment that we sell into.
So I think in the communications-related markets those prices certainly still trend down.
And I think that what we have seen in 2012 -- so I think we see a better balance between the movements in prices and the movements in cost structure which as you know in 2011 was very much out of balance and this puts a particularly strong pressure on margin.
So I wouldn't say that it's an easier pricing environment.
I would just say that it's a pricing environment that's more rational given what we see happening from an input cost perspective.
But as you know the market is a very dynamic one and seems to be choppy to take a word from a demand perspective depending on which market you will look at.
And that always has some impact on pricing dynamics as well.
But I think that we're able to manage pretty well through the environment as long as cost and price are in balance.
And I think that's how we would describe -- how 2012 looks to us as we sit here today.
Our next question is from Craig Hettenbach from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Adam a number of times that the macro environment has come up on this call so I'm just curious if you can contrast kind of what you're seeing this summer versus last summer.
Anything from kind of order patterns or customer conversations would be helpful.
Craig look I have to sort of plunge the depths of my memory to think back on what it was last year.
I think last year when we really saw a shift within the third quarter when there are all of these sort of government-driven around the world uncertainties that came the debt ceiling debate the Europe and Greece sort of first materializing on the scene what we see now is kind of a general hesitancy.
I think people see the market.
People read the papers.
I was in Europe recently and I can tell you you don't even want to read the papers in the morning when you're in Europe.
At the end of the day though our customers are in the business that we are in which is creating new electronics for their customers.
And I think we continue to see just a tremendous tremendous pace of innovation that is happening.
And I talked about that in the IT market where the pace of innovation is something that we've been able to capitalize on very much.
The same is true in the mobile devices market.
And the same arguably is true across the board in all of our markets.
So we haven't heard any customers today coming out and sort of singing doom-and-gloom songs here.
Rather there is just a general unease about what is going to happen.
I think people don't have confidence in governments anymore to solve the problem.
They're not sure where markets are headed.
And at the end of the day that creates that level of unease.
At the same time they're making a product that customers are thirsting for.
I mean take wireless infrastructure.
I mean this is a classic market where there is a clear demand by the end consumer to have upgrades in technology.
I mean you just can't go anywhere in the world today and be satisfied as a customer with a mobile device.
The customers all know that.
The operators know that.
The smart ones are driving upgrades at a significant pace.
Others are taking a little bit more of a wait-and-see attitude.
I think we've seen that market expand a couple of quarters in a row and that's a good sign but it's just indicative of the type of general hesitancy that is there.
At end of the day for Amphenol we're not running the company based on microeconomic trends and forecasts and headlines in the Wall Street Journal.
We're running the company based on what we see with our customers on new programs new technologies and driving the execution and reacting to whatever the macro environment will bring our way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
As a follow-up on the Commercial Aerospace side the adjustment in inventory.
Would you characterize that as a pause here? And if you can kind of just talk through your expectations once you get through that.
Yes.
I think it's actually pretty normal.
The way the Commercial Aero market works is they do these sort of step function increases in either new platforms or production rates.
And those tend to happen early on in the year.
And it's not abnormal that when there is kind of a ramp-up and you recall we saw a significant ramp-up in the first quarter.
We saw some in the fourth quarter.
It's not uncommon for the hundreds of companies that are involved in that supply chain to not get it perfect as they go through the sort of annual ramp-ups that are happening.
I mean there's no doubt about it that the plane volume that we're seeing or that our customers are creating today are up significantly.
I mean if you take just the 2 largest their volumes of airplanes are up 14% 15% in what they're producing and delivering on a year-over-year basis.
But a lot of that tends to happen really -- at the end of the year.
They set their production plan.
They ramp up the supply chain.
And then sometimes there is a kind of a flex and a little bit of like an accordion effect on the supply chain when they do that ramp-up and then it normalizes over time.
So this is -- that sequential performance to us is not at all a concern.
We view that that strong year-over-year performance which is something that we expect to continue throughout the year is really indicative of both the increase in unit volumes that we're seeing together with our broader position that comes on the new platform.
And that's something that we continue to look forward to.
We have not really seen a lot of the new airplanes being produced in significant volumes yet and I think that's something still to come at some point.
When they all start being made exactly when the delays and the kinks are worked out that remains to be seen but we feel very good about that market and our position in the market going forward.
Our next question or comment comes from Amit Daryanani from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just maybe I want to start off with the OpEx side of the equation.
Things are obviously pretty good this quarter $120 million OpEx up.
How should we think about OpEx run rate going forward? And do you still have some of the cost savings from the restructuring you did late in 2011 that still need to be realized? Sure.
I think that by OpEx you're referring to what we call SG&amp;A.
And I think that this is an area that certainly we got a lot of operating leverage on in the quarter.
We're back down to about 12.1% of sales which is essentially where we were in the middle 2 quarters of last year.
We do really a very good job of managing all levels of cost and we focus on SG&amp;A cost as much as we do on manufacturing cost.
We target SG&amp;A or OpEx to grow about half the rate of sales all else being the same.
In some quarters we hit that and in some quarters we don't.
But I think that we do still have some leverage that we will see as we move through the second half of the year on both in SG&amp;A and on the gross margin line as we look to work -- to hit those 25% incremental conversion operating income margins that we have as a target and that we've reflected in the guidance for the Q3 and then Q4 time frames.
LLC Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And if I could just follow up.
Adam if you just talk about the handset side.
I realize you guys are obviously expecting some strong sequential growth due to ramp in Q3.
Could you maybe just talk about how do you have comfort at this point that this could not be a replication of what happened in the back half of 2011 where you had a really strong Q3 but it resulted in a bit of a vacuum in Q4.
Are you more diversified on a product or customer basis that gives you more comfort that that doesn't happen again? Amit I think the simple answer is we are more diversified in new products.
I think the market is more diversified in new products.
I think we're a good reflection on the market.
If you just take an honest look at things there is a more diverse market of smart mobile devices today than there was a year ago.
And clearly we're present really on a broad basis there.
I think that if we look last year there was that expectation of a very significant ramp-up coming into the fourth quarter which then didn't materialize.
We don't see those expectations today.
So if I go back to a year ago July 17 July 18 I think I've said many times to several of you on the phone that our customers at that point were extraordinarily bullish towards the fourth quarter and were ramping their supply chains in anticipation of the tremendous tremendous fourth quarter 2011.
We don't see that today.
I think customers are very balanced in their view of the trends in their business from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
And thus they are not over-accelerating their supply chains and their procurement activities which led to some of what we saw last year.
And so from that perspective -- look anything can happen obviously.
But I think the kind of data points that we see the conversations that we have with customers lead me to be a little bit more comfortable that you're not getting that overspending of demand which then could lead to a falloff like we saw last year.
Our next question or comment comes from Steven Fox from Cross Research.
I had 2 questions please.
First on the Broadband business slowing down.
Looked like you were starting to get some momentum there and now you're talking about some price pressures.
Can you provide a little more color around what's going on there and sort of your outlook maybe 4 to 6 -- over the next 4 to 6 quarters for that business? And then secondly Diana if you just happen to have organic growth for Industrial and Automotive handy that'd be helpful.
Sure.
Well let me just talk about Broadband for a second here Steve.
I think we have had good momentum there.
Look that market does go in cycles to some extent.
I think that what we have seen is we would have expected the pricing environment in that market to be supportive of further margin expansion based on the competitive environment and that's what we did not see.
And so when we talk about less favorable pricing environment in the quarter as I've always said we are going to follow any price increase from the market leader.
And that just was not forthcoming here when we would have expected that one would have taken the opportunity with the material environment that was more normalized to keep realizing the margins that you could realize.
And so that's really to that extent.
As we look forward in that market I mean there are clearly a lot of dynamics in the market whether that is Broadband over Cable whether that is in the Satellite market whether that is in -- over Telecom.
I mean there are just tremendous different array of ways that people are getting broadband into their house today.
We capitalize on all of those.
And so all that we care about really going forward is are -- is there further adoption of high-speed next-generation broadband into the home? And that's something where we think there clearly is that consistent trend that would support our participation in the market.
What is the criteria? The criteria is that you're able to support those new technologies with a strong product offering.
And that's why the focus of our team in that market has been very very consistent: innovation innovation innovation.
Getting the right products that can support those new demands that are coming from customers in that market.
Whatever their end means whether that is hybrid fiber coax whether that is twisted pair whether that is satellite whatever we want to be there to support the technologies that are there.
And because of that and because we're not just betting on one MSO to be successful or on one satellite operator to be successful we feel that if we can have a strong technology solution for that market there is great opportunity for growth in the future.
I think with respect to the organic growth rate I don't know.
Diana do you want to comment? Sure in Industrial as you know this would be the year-over-year organic growth rate.
Industrial is low double digit and Automotive mid single digit.
Which is a very strong performance in the environment.
Our next question or comment comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
With the mobile devices' significant sequential increase that you'd mentioned is that based on orders that are in your backlog or reflected in that 0.99 book-to-bill? Or do you also have some more visibility with like a request for price or certain platforms that are coming? And how long would that visibility last for you? That market is not necessarily a market where you get 16-week or 12-week or even 8-week lead times on orders.
You work on programs that get released into the marketplace.
And obviously customers need to build a supply chain pipeline to support the ramp-up of new programs.
And so it's a much more sort of a rich interaction with the customers to understand the volumes that are going to come.
It's not here comes -- it's not just one data point or one order or one forecast from a customer.
It's a very very comprehensive approach to being involved in the program with the customer knowing the timing and knowing the volumes that they have.
Obviously programs get delayed.
Programs get accelerated.
Some are successful.
Some are not successful.
And we have a significant amount of experience dealing with the various dynamics that come in those new programs.
We're always going to apply some degree of caution to that in terms of how we invest in ourselves how we proceed with the ramp-ups and obviously how we incorporate that into our outlook for the company.
Our next question or comment comes from Mike Wherley from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could give us any commentary on the trends month-to-month through the quarter and into July in China and the U.S.
Well I think we have not seen anything abnormal in those trends.
I think if we look overall for the company it was a relatively normal quarter in terms of how the months progress.
The last month of the quarter tends to be a little bit stronger there are some vacations in certain places in May.
So I think there was nothing abnormal that we would comment on relative to China U.S.
or for that matter Europe through -- in the course of how the quarter proceeded.
Research Division</strong> And since the quarter ended any comments on July? No nothing abnormal for the guidance that we have given today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other question I just had was on M&amp;A.
Are there any targets that you might consider that are bigger than what you've done historically like in the $300 million to $400 million range? Or are you just a lot more comfortable with things that are like $200 million or less? Look I think we've said consistently for many years that size is not a criteria for Amphenol as it relates to acquisitions.
Our criteria for acquisitions is we want number one good people; we want number two very strong technology and complementary technology; we want number three a complementary market position that's really additive to Amphenol and expands the breadth of our offering in one or more of the many markets that we serve.
To that extent there are plenty of larger companies that are out there that would be attractive acquisitions.
And I think we're very fortunate to have a financial condition that really sets no limits on size.
And our mindset also sets no limits on size.
What we wouldn't do is just do one big acquisition for the sake of adding sales to the company.
That's not the strategy of acquisitions but we'd be very excited to proceed with an acquisition to the extent that it were for sale of a company that really satisfies those other criteria that we consistently talk about and emphasize.
Our next question or comment is from Amitabh Passi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions if I may.
Diana first question for you just on gross margins.
I think they were flat sequentially slightly down year-over-year despite sales being up.
How do we think about the leverage in the model? Is it mainly coming through OpEx? Or is there further room to maybe expand gross margins? And then Adam just for you on your mobile infrastructure end market I think you said it was up 11% sequentially.
Some of the large OEMs their commentary has been less than inspirational.
So I was just wondering was the upside on the antenna side base station side? If you could maybe just provide some color there.
Sure maybe I'll start with the first question and I think this was a question relative to the components of our ROS expansion.
And you rightly point out that the gross margin expansion as a discrete line on the P&amp;L has been less part of the operating income expansion in this quarter.
And I think that that certainly is true.
I guess what I would say Amitabh is we really manage the business to maximize and expand the operating profit.
And we believe this is really a necessary approach to make sure that all of the costs on the P&amp;L get equal attention by operating management.
This has been our consistent approach for decades and we feel that this is the right approach to expand operating income return.
We have a really diversified product and market footprint and that results in some products and markets having higher gross margins and higher SG&amp;A and some have lower gross margins and lower SG&amp;A.
And sometimes you have an impact from translation if rates move around the acquisitions that we do can also sometimes have an impact relative to how their cost structure is.
And so from our perspective ROS expansion is the goal and as is this 25%-plus conversion margin on incremental sales.
And that is something that we have achieved and that is something that we do have still incorporated in guidance for Q3 and Q4.
I think if we talk specifically about the rest of the year I think we probably will see some contribution to operating margin expansion from both gross margin and SG&amp;A in the second half of the year.
But from our standpoint by us a management team what we really care about is whether the ROS is expanding not what specifically the gross margin or SG&amp;A does.
We work to maximize the bottom line.
It's a very simple approach.
It's a straightforward one.
And we think based on our experience it's very effective in expanding margins.
Amitabh with respect to your second question on wireless infrastructure I think you used the phrase "less than inspiring" in terms of their comments over the last couple of days.
I would describe the market has been less than inspiring over the last 5 or 6 quarters.
I mean that has been certainly a challenging market.
We are very pleased to have had that growth in the quarter sequentially 11% up over the quarter.
And I think your question was is that coming from different sales than just to OEMs? The fact of the matter is that we had strong performance on both sides of the business even slightly stronger on the equipment side with the OEMs on a sequential basis.
And I think that comes from just a strong position that we've gotten on new base station platforms.
There has been a real technology transformation that's been going on in that market for the better part of 2 years now as the equipment manufacturers have migrated to these lower cost more modular base stations.
I think that has had a negative result on them because they're selling their products a heck of a lot cheaper than they ever were before.
It also had to some extent a negative impact on the content of interconnect products as you go from a big box the size of a refrigerator to something that is not all that much bigger than a server today in a base station.
Obviously there is a different level of interconnect.
However what we have seen is as those new base stations get more ruggedized because they're putting them up on tops of towers they're putting them on tops of buildings that the new interconnect requirements that are being required now for that new technology has allowed us to gain further position with our customers and start to see the kind of fruits of those designing labors coming through this quarter and last quarter with now 2 sequential quarters of growth.
Our Antenna business continues to be a very strong business.
We have a leading position with some very strong customers around the world.
Obviously the operators' spending cycles -- they come and they go.
I mean you look today China and India is not the kind of frothy market that it once was.
The U.S.
is not a bad market.
Europe is -- there's a lot of uncertainty.
And you probably read the release today from one of the players in that space that says that in Europe there is some macro uncertainty that's driving different spending patterns.
Our strategy there is not to bet on a region.
It's not to pick one of the equipment manufacturers as our only horse to ride.
It's to try to have a broad position across all the operators that we can and across all the equipment makers that we can with a broad array of product offering in RF products in fiber optics in high power high speed.
And so with that broad power -- product offering that we have we're able to capitalize to some extent better as these new products take hold and even if those new products are these lower-priced products that don't necessarily help the sales of our customers.
Our next question or comment comes from Brian White from Topeka.
Research Division</strong> Adam on the mobile device market in the third quarter do you feel like you're gaining share? Or is this just a reflection of the marketplace? Well I think I would say we're gaining share.
I wouldn't expect that the market is going 30%.
But gaining share in that market it's hard to say.
What does that mean gaining share because we're designing totally new products into totally new products.
And so to that extent is that gaining share? Is that not gaining share? Certainly we're gaining position in the broader marketplace.
Is it coming out of one person's hide or someone else's hide? I think that's harder to quantify.
It's a new thing.
And so to the extent that we're making some new antenna or some new interconnect or some new mechanical thing that goes on to these devices that is kind of a new business that is not coming out of someone else's hands or teeth here.
And so typically when one says "Are you gaining shares?" that means someone else is losing and you're winning.
I think in this case we're winning as the new technology evolves.
And that's something that is -- that's been a real focus for us.
This is not a market where you want to get into just kind of share battle because the pricing dynamics in the market where you get into share battles those are not -- there is not going to be any winner in the end for that.
The way to win is with new technologies and with a strong and very dynamic speedy support of these new product ramps.
And I think that's one area where we have worked for the better part of the decade to build an organization that is highly responsive really turning on a moment's notice turning new samples turning new designs for customers doing what it takes on a 24 hour a day clock to make sure that our customers can release their products on time and thereby they come back to you when they need another new technology and they have another new device going forward.
It's hard to say what device it's going to be actually in the future.
I mean we talked about how we view that market more broadly today than we did 2 years ago.
Who knows if in 2 years whether there is going to be some other new thing that's out there that's going to be called a mobile device? But what I can tell you is to the extent that there is value for our products to be on it we're going to work darn hard to make sure that we're present.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a follow-up book-to-bill ratio as I remember was 1.05 March quarter 0.99 in the June quarter.
Just how do we think about that? It looks like the biggest decline since June quarter '08.
How do we think about that in the marketplace? I think Brian that the book-to-bill ratio in the first quarter was probably a little bit on the high side higher than what we ordinarily would see if you look back historically.
I think a 0.99:1 book-to-bill ratio in Q2 is not such an unusual phenomenon for us.
So I would say that more -- that the Q1 book-to-bill ratio was probably more on the high side which makes that comparison maybe look a little funny when you look at the 2 quarters together.
But Q2 in terms of our order levels we feel good about where they are.
We feel that the book-to-bill ratio makes sense relative to the guidance that we've given and so forth.
As you know some of our markets are more book-to-bill in the same quarter and that can have an impact on what that ratio looks like.
Our next question comes from Tony Kure from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones here.
You mentioned the strength in the datacom markets into the second quarter and then it seems like with the expectation going forward there's a pretty material shift in sentiment.
Was there some sort of turning event or some sort of time period where you saw a definite shift in more caution out of your datacom customers? I wouldn't say that there is sort one turning point.
I think that there's kind of been a general evolution of the sentiment.
And again I wouldn't describe that as horribly negative.
It's not that we're saying that market is going to be down double digits in the third quarter.
I think there is some degree of caution in the third quarter with respect to the end sales of their product.
I think that in addition there's many new products that are coming on board and to the extent they're sort of seeing are they selling or not selling and that's something that happens also at the time of new product releases with customers.
So I don't think there was a moment where everybody said they're kind of freaked out and said it's all going bad.
It's not at all.
I think the reason why I made those comments is typically that market would be potentially up in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
We don't necessarily see that this quarter.
We see it more sort of slightly down to flattish.
And thereby that implies to us that there is some conservatism and some uncertainty in that marketplace but this is not -- no cataclysm here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That color is helpful.
And then Diana I think you mentioned there was helping out the margins there were some more cost reductions.
I know it's a normal part of the business in the second quarter but maybe -- you could maybe scale those for us and how they -- how the second quarter cost reductions may have compared to the size of the cost reductions I think you had in the first quarter or even if you annualize them versus 2011.
I guess just maybe scale how big the cost reductions were relative to prior periods.
Yes I'm not sure that I could give you a quantification on a consolidated basis of exactly how those would compare.
I think that we -- every quarter and every month each of the operating management team works to really minimize the entire cost structure whether we're talking about manufacturing or SG&amp;A-related cost.
And I think that is an important part of where that operating leverage in the business comes from.
So it's really the combination of the volume.
And that volume then creates opportunity if you do a really strong job of cost control to get that margin expansion that you've seen us achieve in the last 2 quarters in Q1 and Q2 and the further margin expansion that we have included in the guidance in the second half of the year.
I think that the management team is certainly I would say working as hard as they ever have been to create sufficient cost reduction opportunities to keep that margin expansion going.
And certainly I wouldn't say that this is the easiest environment that we're in right now but certainly the team is up to the challenge and are very excited to continue to grow margin as we grow the top line here in Q3.
So that's about as much of a quantification as I can give you.
And I'm currently showing no further questions or comments at this time.
Very good.
Well we'd like to express our thanks to all of you for the time today and I'd like to also take this opportunity to wish you all a pleasant summer.
I hope you each get the opportunity to take a little bit of rest from your busy schedules.
And we look forward to hearing your voices again here in the fall.
Thank you all very much and have a pleasant day.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome everyone to our Third Quarter Call.
Q3 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the third quarter achieving new records in both sales and earnings per share with sales just over $1.1 billion and EPS of $0.90 meeting the high end of the company's guidance.
Sales were up 7% in U.S.
dollars and 9% in local currencies compared to Q3 of 2011.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency effects sales in Q3 2012 were up 4% versus last year.
Sequentially sales were also up 4% in both U.S.
dollars and organically from Q2 of 2012.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components our cable business which comprised 6% of our sales was down 7% from both last year and last quarter due primarily to lower demand of specialty cable and international markets.
The interconnect business which comprised 94% of our sales was up 8% from last year and 5% sequentially and Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income for the quarter was $216 million compared to prior year operating income excluding onetime items of $199 million.
Operating margin was 19.5% in Q3 2012 compared to 19.3% last year and 19.4% last quarter a good conversion margin on incremental sales of approximately 22% sequentially and 24% from last year.
Operating income is net of stock option expense of approximately $8 million or 0.7% of sales in both Q3 2012 and Q3 2011.
From a segment standpoint in our cable business margins were 12.4% down from 13.1% last year and 13.8% last quarter.
The margin decline relates primarily to lower volume of somewhat less favorable pricing environment and some impact from product mix.
In the interconnect business margins were 21.7% up from 21.5% last year and 21.6% last quarter.
The interconnect operating margin improvement primarily reflects the positive impact of higher volume and cost reduction actions.
We're very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement in the quarter.
We continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture cost control allows us to continue to react in a fast and flexible manner thereby constantly adjusting the business to maximize profitability in what clearly continues to be a very dynamic demand environment.
To the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved sequential improvement in operating margins each quarter in 2012 and remains fully committed to driving future enhanced performance.
Interest expense in the quarter was $15 million compared to $10 million last year reflecting higher average debt levels from the company's stock buyback program and the higher interest expense associated with the company's January senior note offering.
Other income was $2.6 million in the quarter up from $2.3 million last quarter primarily as a result of higher interest income on higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
In the third quarter the company had an effective tax rate of 26.8%.
This is approximately the same rate we had in the third quarter of 2011 and for the full year 2011 excluding the impact of onetime items and we currently expect a similar rate in 2012.
Net income was approximately 13% of sales in Q3.
And EPS grew 11% over last year excluding onetime items from the prior year number; a very strong performance.
Orders for the quarter were just under $1.1 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 0.99:1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash and produced strong cash flow from operations of $176 million in the quarter.
For the 9 months operating cash flow stood at $468 million or approximately 112% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
From a working capital standpoint inventory was $712 million at the end of September up 5% over the June quarter.
From an inventory days perspective excluding the impact of acquisitions inventory days were 83 and were comparable to prior year levels.
Accounts receivable was $903 million at the end of September.
And days sales outstanding were 72 days excluding the impact of acquisitions also comparable to prior year levels.
Accounts payable was $478 million at 9/30 and from a days perspective was up about 1 day to 56 days at the end of the quarter.
Our strong cash flow from operations of $176 million along with borrowings under the company's credit and receivables facilities of $63 million and proceeds in related tax benefits from option exercises of $46 million were used primarily to fund $33 million of capital expenditures the purchase of 0.5 million shares of the company's common stock for $28 million $97 million related to payment for the acquisitions of both Holland and Griffith in the quarter dividend payments of $17 million and an $80 million increase in cash and cash investments in the quarter.
The company has approximately 2.5 million shares remaining under the 20 million-share buyback program that expires in January of 2014.
At the end of September cash and short-term investments stood at $893 million the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
In addition the company had availability under its revolving credit facilities of approximately $600 million at the end of the quarter.
Total debt at September 30 stood at $1.6 billion and net debt was approximately $712 million at the end of the quarter.
The company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remain very strong at 1.5x and 17x respectively and EBITDA in the quarter was $264 million.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent performance.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana.
And I'd like to add my welcome to all of you on the phone today.
I'm going to highlight some of our achievements in the third quarter then I plan to discuss our trends and the progress in our various served markets.
Finally I'm going to make some comments on our outlook for the fourth quarter as well as for the full year of 2012.
With respect to the third quarter we're extremely pleased that the company achieved our second consecutive quarter with record orders sales and earnings meeting the high end of guidance despite what are clearly rising levels of uncertainty in the global economy.
Revenues in the quarter increased a strong 7% from prior year and 4% sequentially reaching a new record of $1 103 000 000.
As well the company booked record orders of $1 098 000 000 representing a book-to-bill of just under 1:1.
Our management team especially finds it rewarding that our continued focus on profitability has led to further expansion of our operating margins to 19.5% a very strong level in any measure.
I remain extremely proud of our team.
It is really in dynamic times like these when the true value of both the discipline and agility of our entrepreneurial organization is most clearly revealed as we have continued to capitalize on the many available opportunities for growth while still focusing to drive superior operating performance.
We made significant progress in our acquisition program in the third quarter completing 2 strategic acquisitions in important areas of the interconnect market.
In August we completed the acquisition of Griffith Enterprises a U.S.-based manufacturer of value-add interconnect assemblies for the commercial aerospace market a company with annual sales of approximately $15 million.
This excellent acquisition builds upon our leading offering of high technology interconnect products to this high-growth segment and establishes important new value-add capabilities for our commercial air customers in particular in North America.
In September we acquired Holland Electronics an approximately $60 million revenue U.S.-based supplier of interconnect components to the broadband market.
We're especially excited that Holland adds a wide range of high-technology interconnect products to our broadband cable offering while also expanding our market presence outside of the traditional cable MSOs towards the higher-growth telecom and satellite TV providers.
Both of these strategic acquisitions are consistent with our long-standing strategy to acquire complementary companies with strong management leading technology and excellent market presence.
As we welcome these 2 excellent new teams to Amphenol we remain very confident that our acquisition program will continue to create significant value for Amphenol in the future.
Turning to the trends and progress in our served markets.
I believe our results in the third quarter confirm once again that our balanced end market diversification is a tremendous value for Amphenol especially given the increasing levels of uncertainty in the global economy.
Turning first to the Military market.
That market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales were essentially flat to prior year as defense customers remained wary of extending commitments given the continuing budgetary uncertainties in particular in many western countries.
On a sequential basis sales in the Military market declined by 5% on expected seasonality.
We expect demand to increase from these levels in the fourth quarter as we benefit from the effects of normal seasonality as well as from the ramp-ups of certain new military programs with high electronics content.
While there clearly remains uncertainty in the defense budgets in many developed economies we at Amphenol continue to make progress in creating new high-technology solutions for advanced military electronics and we look forward to realizing further momentum from these efforts in the future.
The commercial aerospace market represented 5% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in that market increased a very strong 18% from prior year as we continue to capitalize on increased demand resulting from higher levels of jet liner production as well as from the launch of new airplane platforms.
Sequentially sales decreased as expected from the second quarter on normal seasonality.
The commercial air market continues to be exciting for Amphenol as we're taking advantage of a real revolution of electronics adoption in these planes.
New planes are incorporating electronics to create enhanced passenger experience and comfort new levels of fuel efficiency and ease of operation for the airlines.
Looking forward we expect sales to increase sequentially in the fourth quarter and continue to have a very positive long-term outlook for the commercial air market.
The industrial market represented 14% of our sales in the quarter and sales in that market increased also a very strong 23% from prior year.
As we benefited from the contribution of our prior acquisition as well as from continued strong demand in the oil and gas alternative energy and factory automation segments.
Sales in the industrial market were down sequentially by 5% again on normal seasonality.
We continue to make excellent progress broadening our interconnect product offering and increasing our penetration of the many exciting growth segments of the industrial market.
It is a market in which the electronics revolution continues to accelerate.
We expect that given the current level of economic uncertainties sales in the industrial market will remain at or about these levels in the fourth quarter.
But nevertheless we look forward to continued long-term momentum in this important sector for Amphenol.
The automotive market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter and sales increased a strong 36% from prior year and were down slightly from the second quarter on typical seasonality.
We continue to benefit from an ongoing increase in vehicle production volumes as well as new electronics applications together with the important technology contributions that have come from our recent automotive acquisitions.
In particular we continue to make progress broadening our position with our key automotive customers as we take advantage of this expanded technology offering for new electronics applications in the cars.
We have begun to see some indications of a moderation of automotive demand in particular among European automakers and thus we expect sales to remain at the current levels in the fourth quarter.
Nevertheless we look forward to continuing to expand our participation within the high-value applications in this important market.
The mobile devices market represented 22% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased 2% from prior year on increased sales of products into new mobile computing platforms which is partially offset by some degree of lower sales related to traditional and smartphones.
We're especially pleased that our sales in this market increased a very strong 31% sequentially.
This was driven by our participation in a diverse set of new program launches in particular related to tablets and ultrabooks what we call really mobile computing products.
Our diverse array of high-technology interconnect antenna and mechanism products together with a highly reactive organization has ensured that we strongly participate in a diverse range of new products.
We expect further sequential growth in the mobile devices market in the fourth quarter albeit at a more moderate pace as we continue to participate in the ramp-ups of these new mobile computing products.
And we remain very excited by the potential that these new platforms create for the company in the future.
The mobile networks market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter.
While sales decreased 5% from prior year we are very pleased that sales increased sequentially for the third consecutive quarter growing 5% from Q2.
The overall investment environment in the wireless infrastructure market continues to be challenging.
Nevertheless we are encouraged by our expanding positions with both equipment makers and operators in particular on their next-generation systems and network buildouts.
Although we expect demand to moderate slightly in the fourth quarter on traditional end-of-the-year seasonality we look forward to further long-term strength in the future driven by our broad designing positions on new equipment and platforms as well as by our strong presence with wireless operators around the world.
The information technology and Datacom market represented 20% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased 5% year-over-year and as expected were flat from the second quarter as we saw the pace of IT-related investments moderate.
Regardless of that moderation we continue to benefit from a variety of releases of next-generation servers and data center equipment all of which is incorporating a broad array of our leading high-speed and power interconnect technologies.
As our customers continue to strive for new levels of equipment performance in order to handle the dramatic expansion of data traffic our pipeline of new design opportunities with our next-generation products continues to strengthen.
We anticipate a further slight reduction in demand among customers in the IT market in the fourth quarter as customers continue to moderate their spending plans given continuing economic uncertainty.
Nevertheless we look forward to further long-term gains as our new high technology solutions are increasingly adopted into our customers' next-generation systems.
Finally the broadband market represented 7% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased 3% from prior year and were down slightly on a sequential basis in what is generally a stable demand environment.
We continued to broaden our technology offering with new interconnect products at the same time as we are strengthening our position outside of the company's traditional markets.
In particular we're very excited by our expanded interconnect product offering resulting from the Holland acquisition and look forward to realizing significant value from this new platform for expansion.
We expect sales in the broadband market to grow in the fourth quarter sequentially as the typical fourth quarter seasonal slowdown in MSO spending is more than offset by the benefits from the addition of Holland.
We are extremely proud in summary of our dynamic organization as we have continued to execute very well in what is no doubt an increasing uncertain market environment.
We're particularly pleased with the company's new records in sales and earnings as well as with the continued expansion of our already industry-leading margins.
Amphenol's superior performance is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages: our leading technology our increasing position with customers in a diverse range of markets our worldwide presence a lean and flexible cost structure and most importantly an agile entrepreneurial management team.
Now turning to the outlook.
In recent months there's been an increasing level of market uncertainty related to a range of fiscal and budgetary issues.
Based on these considerations and assuming current currency exchange rates we now expect the following results.
For the fourth quarter we expect sales in the range of $1 095 000 000 to $1 115 000 000 and earnings per share in the range of $0.88 to $0.91.
For the full year 2012 we expect sales in the range of $4 241 000 000 to $4 261 000 000 and EPS in the range of $3.41 to $3.44.
For the full year this guidance represents sales and EPS growth of roughly 8% and 12% to 13% respectively.
Given the many uncertainties in the global economy we are very encouraged by the strong outlook in sales and earnings which reflects in particular the value of the diversification of the company as well as the discipline and agility of our management teams.
Most importantly the electronics revolution continues to create many opportunities for Amphenol.
I remain extremely confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities to both grow our market position and expand our profitability and thereby to drive continued superior performance for Amphenol.
Operator at this time we'd be very happy to take any questions if there might be.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I have one question for Adam and one question for Diana.
Adam your success in mobile devices can you help us understand is it mostly tablets or cell phones that you're seeing success there? Because there's a lot of mixed things of what's going on in the industry we've got some very big program builds.
We're just trying to figure out if it's mostly tablets or cell phones.
And then Diana you made some comments at the beginning of your prepared remarks about the lower demand in the specialty cable and the international markets.
Is that more of an economic macro factor or is there something structural going on like wireless is picking up faster than coaxial cable? Or how should we think about your comment? Yes Jim thank you very much.
With respect to your first question on mobile devices I -- we have mentioned I think this is the second quarter running that we see tremendous opportunity in what we call mobile computing platforms.
And when I talk about mobile computing devices that obviously includes tablets and ultrabooks and all those related devices.
I mean in many ways defining these devices becomes increasingly difficult.
Each one that comes out seems to have features that come from other parts of them.
They become almost like a hybrid device.
And that's -- those are really the devices where we have seen the growth.
We continue to have a strong participation in the smartphone world but that is not where the growth is being driven from because we have seen in smartphones that there has been a trend towards more reliance on software as opposed to hardware.
Our goal in the mobile device market is to create high-technology interconnect antenna mechanism solutions that have value to the end user and thereby have value to our customers who are thereby willing to pay us a certain price for them.
And we can then make the returns that we'd like to make.
And so as we've seen the real proliferation of a wide variety of these new platforms we're very fortunate that we have in Amphenol a team that is so responsive to the needs of that market that they're able to capitalize on the growth wherever that may come.
And that includes getting a broad position on a variety of different products that are being released and are now starting to ramp up.
Research Division</strong> Diana? Sure.
I mean I think that Jim we have some mix of product in our cable business.
As you know the preponderance of the product is going to the broadband market but in some of the international markets we also offer products that go more broadly and are used I would say more in the communications infrastructure buildouts in places like South America and those kinds of markets.
And I think there will -- we saw this quarter versus the demand we experienced last year's quarter and last quarter was -- just a lower consumption of those types of products.
And these are the types of items we refer to when we use the "specialty" word.
This is to distinguish it between the broadband products which make up the bigger part of the segment.
I mean you know and we have talked about in the past that we have -- over many years have been driving to diversify the technology portfolio of products that we have in our cable business and that is something where we have been very successful.
And I think as Diana mentioned in her remarks in this quarter certainly there were some impacts on some of that product mix in the short term.
But we still feel very optimistic about all those efforts going forward and we continue to create excellent new products.
And when you combine that with now the Holland acquisition in the true broadband market which not only gives us a broader range of complementary products but also allows us to expand what had been a more narrow range of traditional cable operator customers we feel very very good about that market going forward.
And we think that the acquisition is going to create a great platform for us.
Our next question comes from Amit Daryanani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question and a follow-up as well.
Maybe to start off on the inventory: It was up 5%.
Can you just maybe talk about how much of that was due to acquisitions versus some of the other factors? And I'm sort of looking at the organic guide of revenue if you may being down 1.5% versus inventory up 5%.
It kind of gives you -- it makes x [ph] acquisition.
Or was there just some level of conservatism [ph] built into the guide or did you actually have a slow finish to the September quarter? All right sure.
Just starting off with the inventory question I -- what -- the increase in inventory without the acquisition impact probably would have been more comparable to the sequential sales change Amit.
If you look at the turnover which we compute without the acquisition impact inventory days remained about the same level.
I would also just add that the mobile device market which as you know had a large sequential growth in the third quarter and will have some further sequential growth in the fourth quarter tends to run fairly low from an inventory days perspective so they do have to build inventory as they feed those higher sales levels.
And I think those are the 2 things that have contributed to the inventory number in terms of the absolute amount you see on the balance sheet.
From a guidance perspective in terms of the sequential change between Q3 and Q4 we're guiding to a slight increase in sales in terms from a U.S.
dollar perspective.
At the high end it's probably about 1% down from an organic perspective which I think is the change that you asked about.
I think that Adam went through the individual markets.
It's a relatively small change in guidance versus what was implied at the guidance we gave when we released earnings for the third quarter.
And that change primarily is due to I think some softer demand in the communications equipments market primarily in the IT Datacom market.
But we feel that this is a very strong guidance particularly in kind of the mixed demand environment that we see here in Q4.
So we feel that it's appropriate guidance and it's based on the same process that we go through internally with all of our units each quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And maybe we'll just ask Adam a question: The M&amp;A environment in the case on all the deals you guys have been able to do this year it's been an extremely good year for you guys.
If you can maybe just step back and talk about what do you think was the driver for a better M&amp;A year at least so far in 2012? And do you think that's something that can sustain in the future especially the U.S.
if the risk of the taxes and capital gain taxes are going to go higher? Yes thank you very much Amit.
It's excellent question.
It has been a great year for us.
I mean we have completed so far this year 4 acquisitions.
They've been in a wide variety of markets.
They've bolstered our broadband market commercial air automotive industrial markets.
So these have been just outstanding acquisitions and we're very proud of that track record this year as well as the long-term track record.
The thing is to say that it's been a great year is very true.
We have always said that we've never been able to predict how many deals are going to close when they're going to close what the timing of that is going to be.
And I continue to say the same thing.
Yes there are in the U.S.
certain tax considerations but that has not been the real driver for why we've been able to be successful this year.
We have an outstanding organization around the world really planting seeds of relationships and incubating these acquisitions over a very long time period.
It just so happens that yes we have 4 of them this year.
We still have a very strong pipeline of acquisitions irregardless of what pages of the calendar turn and irregardless of what tax laws are going to change.
And we still feel optimistic and hopeful that we'll continue to have strong contribution from our acquisitions going forward.
Acquisitions we always have that goal that they would represent roughly 1/3 of our growth in any given year.
Obviously some years it is more some years it is less.
This year they have to have a good contribution.
And we believe that the track record for acquisitions that we have created over more than a decade has really allowed us to go to companies with a very consistent and credible story that they can join Amphenol together with their organizations and they will be able to flourish within Amphenol but not to disappear and not to be kind of absorbed into this sort of global entity but rather to take the best of what they have and to create new platforms for growth with them.
That is an extremely compelling story when you're talking to entrepreneurs in any geography in any tax regime with any president in office; that is a compelling story.
So we believe that going forward that will continue to be compelling and we'll continue to have a good acquisition pipeline.
Our next question comes from Matt Sheerin with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question on margins for Diana.
Obviously good operating margin in the quarter but gross margin was down about 30 basis points.
Was that primarily a function of mix? Or was there anything else such as input costs or any pricing mix or pricing pressures? Sure.
Let me just first say that we were really pleased with the company's profitability achievement in the quarter to be able to get to 19.5% operating income margins.
We're about 3 quarters of the way through the year and so far we've got 3 consecutive quarters of margin expansion.
And so I think that our operating team is really proud of being able to accomplish that.
If we talk about the components of where that ROS expansion comes from I think as we've described before we really all manage the business to expand the operating profit line.
And we think this approach is really necessary and it's the only way you get all of the team to focus on every cost that hits the P&amp;L irrespective of what line it shows up on.
If we look at SG&amp;A specifically we certainly do a very good job at controlling these costs and do try to limit the SG&amp;A growth to about 1/2 sales growth.
And if you look at SG&amp;A on a year-over-year basis our SG&amp;A grew about 3% over last year on a 7% or so increase in sales.
So the movement in SG&amp;A was pretty consistent with this objective that we set for the company.
If you look sequentially I think you see what you describe which is a reduction in SG&amp;A and some reduction in margin which aggregates at the end of the day to the improvement in ROS that we saw.
And I think this from a quarter-to-quarter basis there is some impact from mix to the extent that they -- really all of that sequential sales growth came from our mobile device mark -- device market.
And that business does carry a lower SG&amp;A level and this is balanced against a somewhat lower gross margin level.
Now this is a very competitive business and in order to achieve the operating income that we target for the business we're able to manage that SG&amp;A down and therefore have no effect on operating income at the end of the day.
And I think that that's what you see when you look sequentially.
We do have quite a mix of between gross margin and SG&amp;A depending on the particular market and the particular product.
This current SG&amp;A level of 11.7% of sales certainly reflects a very strong ongoing management of spending.
But I think over the long term we would still continue to expect SG&amp;A to grow in a somewhat lower pace than sales.
We've historically operated with a very efficient and low level of SG&amp;A.
We're still able to drive excellent new product development technology expansion and sales growth.
And we would expect this dynamic to continue in the future.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Adam just a bigger picture for you that ties into your commentary on M&amp;A and the fact that you're continuing to operate on this entrepreneurial structure.
As you continue to do acquisitions I think you're looking at 60-plus operating units throughout the company.
Is it getting more difficult to manage those operations particularly that you don't have any integrated IT system? And are there any plans to look at any sort of changes into the way you control or manage the business as it gets bigger? Yes Matt thanks very much for the question.
Let me answer a couple of very simple answers to you.
Number one does it get more difficult? No it actually becomes more powerful in that our organizational structures such that I don't have 80 direct reports to me.
It's 80 85 operating units.
Those report into group executives who run strategic portions of our business and each of those general managers that come in as an acquisition or come in organically they're reporting to one of those group executives.
And they're driving aligned strategies around a product or around a market mission.
And the management of those is not complicated when we bring them in.
It's actually quite simple because at the core of Amphenol is that we vest the authority in these general managers and we hold them accountable to run their business.
And then we seek through the group executives and through us here at headquarters to find ways for them to collaborate.
We call it collaborative entrepreneur.
And that has been a tremendous tremendous structure for us and it's one that is inherently extremely scalable.
Now relative to your question about IT very simple the answer is no.
We have no intention to make a kind of an overall IT revamp of Amphenol.
We actually feel extremely comfortable that each of our organizations is in a way tailor made to the market that they serve.
So if you were running a company that is say a military operation you need a very different system than one that is focused in the mobile market.
The life cycles are different.
The level of interaction and control is different.
The level of tracking requirements is different.
You name it.
And to apply a kind of a one-size-fits-all blanket IT solution to the whole company is something that we would see as actually being detrimental to the growth prospects of Amphenol.
And in a way as well from a control standpoint there's no greater level of control that we have as not having that sort of single point of failure within a system.
And so we believe that that organizational structure which is so core to the success of the company so far and has allowed the company to scale over the last decade by a factor of 4 has inherently tremendous more scalability built into it.
Our next question comes from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Adam you alluded to some ramp of new programs in the defense end market and I was wondering are these programs geared towards international customers.
And secondly we started to see some of the defense companies start to bake in the impact of sequestration into their formal guidance.
What are your thoughts and expectations around this? Do you think there is any chance of it getting implemented in its current form? And do you still see a path towards your own defense revenues of flat to up in such an environment? Yes.
Thanks very much Wamsi.
I mean relative to what we see in the near term we continue to see and we have seen that the military and the contractors to the military are working on next-generation programs.
And we have seen that some of those programs are beginning to ramp here in the fourth quarter and those are really programs surrounding new avionic systems new missile systems radar systems where there are just the tremendous amount of new electronics and innovation that goes into those systems.
And so the fact that we have really the broadest portfolio of products in the military everything from the traditional harsh environment connectors to RF to fiber optics and you name it means that we are participating very strongly wherever the military is implementing electronics.
And so there is to that extent for us a great benefit as some of those new programs ramp up with the new electronics.
Relative to sequestration look I mean we are not here to guess which way politicians are going to vote thumbs up or thumbs down on sequestration.
I believe personally that it would be not the wisest thing for the government to allow sequestration to go through considering that there are a tremendous number of jobs related to the military market and they are some of the best jobs that exist in the United States today.
Is that baked into our guidance in the fourth quarter? Certainly we have not assumed in the fourth quarter any massive drop-off in spending and that's not where sequestration would be.
If it comes we'll deal with it.
We have dealt with changes in the market environment in the past.
What we know very clearly though is whether that is sequestration or not there's going to be a demand by the military to still perform the mission that they got to perform.
And one of the best ways that they see towards doing that is by implementing new electronics.
And I think that some of these new programs that we've seen are in fact just doing that bringing in electronics to save operating expenses for the military in the future.
And I think to that extent that the military continues to face up to that mission which I think they will do there's no doubt about it.
The electronics is going to have the potential for us to continue to support that market.
It's not as our strongest growing market but a market where we believe there's still further potential for expansion in the future.
Research Division</strong> And Diana a quick follow-up to your comments on SG&amp;A from before.
On a sequential basis SG&amp;A was pretty flat despite a $40 million sort of increase quarter-over-quarter in revenues.
As we look forward here at what -- is there a revenue -- a certain revenue level that you can support with this current SG&amp;A structure? And when should we sort of think of that increasing at a stronger pace than what we just saw this past quarter? Yes I mean I think we don't have Wamsi really a specific consolidated revenue level that that certain SG&amp;A would support.
I think as I said we have a very cost structure by business depending on the market they serve depending on the gross margins that the products are able to achieve and so forth.
I think what we saw in the third quarter as I said all our sequential growth came in the mobile device market which by its nature it's competitive nature it does have lower gross margins and lower SG&amp;A.
And so to support that sales growth it's really not a lot of investment in SG&amp;A that's required.
So it really depends upon where that sales growth comes from.
I think as a rule of thumb the rule of thumb that we use on a consolidated basis is we expect -- we would expect SG&amp;A to grow less than half of what sales growth is and so I think from a modeling perspective I think this rule of thumb is what I would use.
Our next question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Two questions just first off on the auto-related commentary being the market maybe easing a bit in Europe is that just are you seeing actual production cuts from your customers? Or you're just seeing kind of a leveling off in the growth rate maybe in Europe and just automotive overall? And then the second question is Diana just commodities we've seen a little bit of a rally here in both copper and gold prices.
Are they getting to a point where they're becoming a bit cumbersome in terms of margins? Or are you at least able to manage through that right now? Very good Shawn thank you very much.
I mean with respect to the automotive market there's no secret that there are some economic challenges going on in Europe.
And I think we -- you had seen or we had seen that some of the automakers had already started talking about an impact to that early on even in prior quarters.
And we have just seen in general across really the first tier and that's where we generally operate.
We're not always selling our product directly to vehicle manufacturers but rather to the first tier that there is a little bit more conservatism surrounding their production schedules in light of the fact that they believe that there is maybe more a leveling of the automotive production as opposed to necessarily a big drop-off.
I don't know that there is any big drop-off of that but it appears to just be some degree of moderation.
Normally in the fourth quarter we would have expected to have seasonally an increase on a sequential basis in automotive.
And I think the fact that we see that market essentially being flat with the third quarter is a reflection of some degree of moderation at some level in the supply chain.
I don't believe that that is necessarily a permanent issue a severe issue.
How long that will be how long it will take the supply chain to work that out that remains to be seen.
But it's something that I think from a standpoint of being prudent in our outlook we are seeing some of those signs and have reflected that in the guidance.
From a margin perspective and the recent news in commodities I mean they certainly have come up some this past quarter.
Certainly it is something that we keep a very close eye on.
It does obviously put some pressure on costs.
I think at current levels in the current quarter we've been able to manage through this.
I think we continue to devote a lot of engineering resources to reducing our dependence on certain of the commodities that just seem over the last few years to have become -- have sort of a volatility that doesn't necessarily relate purely to manufacturing demand gold probably being the one that comes most in line.
And so we continue to try to be very thoughtful and devote resources to using less of them.
And I think that this is an important action for us.
We also obviously look to try to consider the movements of the commodities when we're making pricing decisions but pricing as you know is also influenced by competitive issues as well as cost trends.
I think at this point where commodities stay at the same level that they're at I don't think we would be concerned about meeting the margin goals that you see us being able to achieve in the third quarter and being reflected in our Q4 guidance.
Our next question comes from Sherri Scribner with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Diana I just wanted to dig into the operating margin.
It looks like for the December quarter at midpoint of guidance suggests that operating margins decline a little bit despite a flat revenue guide.
Is that primarily related to the mix? Is that some pricing pressures that the growth of the mobile devices segment? Just wanted to understand that a little bit.
Sure.
I mean I think the way that we look at the guidance that we would expect operating margins to be about flat.
There is some slight increase in sales at the high end of guidance but it's relatively small primarily from the acquisitions that we made during the third quarter which in aggregate probably have a profitability little less slightly below what the average of the company would be.
But I think we would see them Sherri more as flat than as down.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Adam just thinking about the growth of the connector market overall what do you see the growth of the connector market as being this year? And what are your expectations for the growth of the overall connector market next year? And do you still expect to be able to grow 2x that? Thanks very much Sherri.
That is as good as a guess by me as it is of anyone.
I think we read the same reports that you all read.
If you look at the kind of more credible connector market forecast for 2012 that would imply that this year will be a down year in the connector market.
And I think if you look at our guidance for full year to be up essentially 8% I would say that that is clear outperformance in 2012 with respect to how the market has performed.
What will it be in 2013? We're not giving guidance today to 2013.
I don't know what the forecasts are for 2013.
I mean when you look at all the uncertainties that is around today the global economies and the various markets I think at this point to talk about what the market increase will be in 2013 is really premature.
Do we have confidence that we will outperform the market in 2013? Absolutely and that has been a long track record for us for more than a dozen years where we have been able to outperform the market on average by more than twice the rate of the growth.
And this year is really no different than that.
And we continue to believe that our unique combination of that entrepreneurial management structure that is so dynamic in all time periods being able to react quickly in times of change to capitalize on the available opportunities that are there because of this proliferation of electronics combined with our high-technology and that just excellent position we have with customers around the world just creates for us a tremendous opportunity to outperform the industry in any economic environment.
And look it is today uncertain.
It may be next year uncertain.
But regardless of what that uncertainty is one thing is for sure which is that Amphenol is going to perform well.
Our next question comes from Anthony Kure with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
First could you just talk about by end market which ones are more weighted toward China? And then along those lines how the quarter may have progressed month-to-month within that region if you saw any discernible pattern? Sure thanks very much.
It is not surprising that you can imagine that some of the markets which are in mobile devices IT data com wireless infrastructure those tend to be more Chinese related because that's where our customers make a lot of their stuff.
And so those tend to be where we are shipping the vast majority of products in those markets into Asia.
Whether that is all China obviously China is the biggest manufacturing spot in Asia so that would certainly be significant.
In other markets military in particular obviously we have essentially no sales in that market and industrial and aerospace also would be less.
Relative to how the quarter progressed not surprisingly with the European vacations that the end of the quarter was stronger than the beginning of the quarter in terms of sales.
I think in China this was probably about the same if not a little more balanced.
You have in China the October holidays so I would anticipate that in Q4 the beginning of the fourth quarter in China would probably be a little bit lighter than the end of the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then if you could just remind me how your automotive markets break down geographically? Is there particular waiting to one region? Yes.
I mean our automotive market is just under 2/3 in Europe so we have a higher preponderance of position with the high-end automakers in Europe.
Our next question comes from Amitabh Passi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I had a question and a follow-up.
Adam we've heard a few more companies increasingly talk about higher levels of softness in the North American market.
I'd be curious to see or hear what you're seeing or hearing from your customers there.
And then as my follow-up I just wanted to maybe dig in deeper into your wireless infrastructure segment.
Wanted to see where the strength came from.
Was it more related to your base station connector products? Was it antennas? And how you see the spending environment across geographies for that market? Sure thank you very much Amitabh.
With respect to North America we have read also many of the reports about the softening in North America.
I can tell you actually in the third quarter on a year-over-year basis North America was actually quite strong for us.
It was one of our fastest growing -- it was actually our fastest-growing territory.
From a sequential basis it was as is usual in the third quarter.
It was kind of flattish with -- compared to the second quarter.
So I wouldn't say that we've necessarily seen such a dramatic slowdown in North America.
Now with regard to wireless infrastructure I mentioned that we're very pleased that we now have 3 quarters in a row of sequential growth.
All that being said it is still down on a year-over-year basis albeit down by less than it has been over the prior quarters.
And we look forward to the next quarter to having our first quarter in several where we'll actually grow quite significantly on a year-over-year basis.
And the strength this quarter on a sequential basis probably came a bit more from our relationships with operators than it did with OEMs.
But our position on both sides continues to strengthen.
We continue to have a great position vis-à-vis the set of higher technology products that are going on the next-generation base stations.
One thing that has happened to this market is the total structure of the base stations has completely changed over the course of the last 24 months.
They've gone from the large-scale base stations to now these more remote access small up-the-tower kind of base stations.
And as that happened the type of interconnect technology that's required to be used to allow those products to survive in the harsh environment or to extend fiber optics or to have a different power structure has really dramatically changed.
And our engineers have been working with the OEMs around the world to make sure that we take a leadership position on many of those technologies such that as those new base station platforms grow and as the new LTE rollouts happen on a worldwide basis we will benefit from them.
Similarly we've done the same with our antenna business where we put a lot of focus on developing next-generation products.
You've seen some operators in certain geographies already launching these networks and we're fortunate to be present with some of those operators and that's part of what has helped us in this quarter from a sequential standpoint.
But going forward to the extent that the industry slowly figures out the difficult economics that allows them to make further investments and essentially allows them to charge their customers for data usage we're in a very strong position to participate going forward.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Adam just a quick follow-up was the strength mainly skewed towards North America? Or are you starting to see geographies staring to participate particularly Asia Pac and Europe? I think in the third quarter it's probably a bit more North America.
I mean that's -- it is where the buildouts are happening.
And the most significant buildouts Amitabh are happening in next-gen networks so far in the U.S.
And again I'm hopeful that others are coming close behind.
The U.S.
has the luxury of having the highest average revenue per user essentially of any economy and so they have a little bit more money to invest than some of their brethren in less developed parts of the world.
Our next question comes from Mike Wherley with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Adam I just want to follow up on that market and just to ask if you think that there is any chance that there might be a bigger bump-up in the rollout of those wireless networks in 2013.
Or do you think it'll just sort of be scraping along like this with caution? Yes.
Look I would not go out on a limb to say that there's going to be huge bump-ups in wireless infrastructure in 2013.
Again we're not giving guidance for 2013 and we're certainly -- as we get closer to that year we'll reassess where we think the markets are going to go in that year.
But this is a market that has gone through a lot of challenges.
I mean you don't have to just look at us where we have 10% of our sales in that market.
You look at the performance of the various OEMs in that market and you can tell.
You have a situation where the operators are making lots of money but the operators cannot justify making the real significant investments that all of us as consumers are dying for them to make.
I mean you just drive around here in Connecticut or on the way to New York and you all know how terrible is the coverage and how slow the data is even though we're talking about 4G.
At least that's what it says on my phone is that it's 4G.
And that need to make the investment is clearly there.
Clearly there is a pent-up demand for that.
But also what is clear is that the economics are not driving the operators to make those investments at the pace that they should be doing that.
That's true here.
That's true in Europe.
That's true in Asia in China.
In particular it's true in places like India where they're just not realizing the returns on their investments because of the low-level spending by individual users.
So I think our strategy in this market continues to be to gain presence on both sides of the market to gain it on the equipment to gain it with the operators and to gain it in particular with high-technology products on next-generation system.
Over time that will work out.
Is that going to be a spike in 2013 or 2014 or 2015? I think we'll know it when it comes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up in both the industrial and auto segments or end markets you had boost from acquisitions.
Did either of those end markets grow year-over-year on an organic basis? Yes absolutely.
Both of them did actually.
I mean industrial grew close to double digits on an organic basis and automotive was sort of mid-single digits on an organic basis.
So I think we're very very pleased with the growth in both those markets consistently.
Over the course of the last year both have grown both by the additions of some excellent companies that we have acquired but also through just tremendous organic efforts that our teams are making.
I mean we have built just to name a few in the industrial market essentially the leading business in oil and gas and energy-related products.
And we've done that certainly by making 1 or 2 acquisitions but in particular we've done that by spreading to customers around the world technologies that they need at the right time and in the right place.
In automotive as well we have capitalized organically on a real revolution of electronics and cars where things that used to be just mere electrical interconnect where there was not the value for us have become electronic controlled with sensors and processors whereby you have to put in the interconnect systems more functionality and place that in a harsher environment section of the car.
And that's where you can create value.
And so our organic efforts in automotive have been very focused around tapping into that revolution in higher value potential interconnect technologies.
We've done that through bringing in some new companies but we've done that also organically through our own efforts of people who have been with the company for many decades.
Our next question comes from Craig Hettenbach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Adam if you exclude the impacts from acquisitions as well as the growth you're seeing in the mobile device segment it still looks like you're performing really well relative to some of the data points through the supply chain and from an in-demand perspective.
So any other things you can point at from an end market perspective or specific new products or designs would be helpful.
Yes.
Well appreciate that Craig and we would agree with your analysis.
I think I mentioned it early on in my prepared remarks.
There is one asset that this company has which you should just never -- you should never minimize the importance of and that is the diversification.
We view diversification not just as something to make a pie chart to show to investors.
It is really a way of going about our business on a day-to-day basis.
When we sit with our operating units we are constantly asking them the question "You have that business.
Why do you not have it with the competition? Why do not have the other connector on that application? Why do you not have that other application that is made also in that market?" And that constant drive to diversify the business in markets in customers within those markets in applications within those customers and in products within those applications that has been an ongoing drive for more than a decade and a half.
And the net result of that is that we have excellent positions across all the markets that we serve.
And so when you look at our performance on a year-over-year basis the strength that came in commercial aero growing 18% year-over-year strength in industrial growing 23% or close to 10% organically automotive strength even IT &amp; Datacom.
We talked about the fact that there is -- we have seen a clear moderation of demand in IT &amp; Datacom in the third quarter.
On a year-over-year basis we grew in that market by 5% totally organic growth in a market where essentially none of the customers are growing by any rate at all.
I mean there have been recent earnings announcements just in recent hours which confirm that growing 5% in that market means you are clearly taking more position in the market than just rising or falling with the tide.
And that constant quest to drive diversification to make sure we're bringing the greatest technologies to our customers in each of those markets that in the end which is what has allowed us to outperform the market in good times and in bad.
And we feel very good about these results in the third quarter.
We feel very good about the outlook that we have in the fourth quarter because it is a time of tremendous uncertainty.
And I would tell you that during the course of the third quarter that uncertainty the level of that uncertainty at least appeared to us to increase.
And that's – obviously you read the papers enough.
You feel very anxious every night when you go to bed.
But the fact is even in that -- amidst that environment of increasing uncertainty we still are able to grow.
We're still able to grow in a wide variety of markets and still able to realize the value from that diversification that we spent so long to create.
Research Division</strong> If I can follow up just more specific to the mobile devices can you talk about the type of visibility you have in that market? And then also touch on just the diversification of different devices would be helpful.
Sure I mean the visibility in that market is obviously much less than it is in some of the more longer cycle markets.
I mean you can imagine we're not getting 16-week lead times or even 8-week lead times.
I mean some of the things that we have to do in that market would really make you quite amazed at the things that our team has to do to react to that market because sometimes you're just getting an email or a phone call from a customer in the middle of the night saying "I need you to double your capacity by next Friday." And these are not demands that you get that seem at all reasonable.
And it's a question of can you do that.
Can you exercise your organization in a real accordion-like fashion to capitalize on the upside that the customers bring and then to react when that goes down the other way? I mean that's something that our team has really developed a real expertise in doing.
Relative to do we have visibility in that market going into the fourth quarter we have given guidance here that we believe that that market will still show some moderate sequential uptick and just us we did last quarter we based that guidance on what our customers tell us and our own assessment of that.
And we feel comfortable with that guidance.
Now where is it coming from? You asked some color on that.
With -- obviously I'm not going to get specific about individual customers or programs but let's just let it be said that we have always had a strategy to gain position on as many products as we can and not try to go out and pick who's going to be the winner or the loser in the marketplace.
And in this case we continue to do that and we have a great position on a variety of what I term mobile computing devices going forward.
And these can be tablets.
They can be ultrabooks.
You name it.
There's a wide variety of these things that I mentioned earlier.
Our next question comes from Steven Fox with Cross Research.
Just a couple of questions.
First I guess the only market you haven't really covered in a little more detail is industrial.
Adam since you seemed to mention that the economy is impacting demand somewhat there can you sort of parcel that out a little bit where you're seeing better growth and worse growth since there are so many different submarkets? And then just a clarification Diana can you just let us know exactly when the 2 acquisitions close? And is the Broadband acquisition the Griffith acquisition -- or I'm sorry the Holland acquisition is that actually going into the cables segment that you report each quarter? Sure Steven.
We got to start with that one because that's -- we closed the smaller of the 2 acquisitions in somewhere around mid-August and closed the larger the Holland acquisition at the very end of the quarter.
And you are correct that that the Holland acquisition will actually go into the cable segment from a reporting perspective because we will run certainly the 2 businesses from a strategic standpoint under the umbrella of the cable group in that broadband market.
And I think Adam described why we're excited about that and what potential that will bring for the company for growth.
And Steve just with respect to industrial market I think I mentioned earlier on that the strength that we saw in the third quarter really came from the energy-related segments: oil and gas alternative energy as well as some degree of strength in the factory automation market.
Going forward where do we see that sort of macroeconomic impact that allowed -- that makes us think that maybe that market will be kind of more flat than what it would normally be which is seasonally up in the fourth quarter? We have seen signs in Europe for example that there's some moderation among some of our customers in terms of what amount of product they want to pull really more in the near-term.
In addition there also appears to be in some of the oil and gas markets that there is also some degree of seasonality in the fourth quarter that comes from not wanting to do certain things when it's extremely called out.
So that's -- in general we feel very very good about that market going forward heading into next year.
We continue to believe that the industrial market will be a market that will grow greater than the average of Amphenol over the near medium and long term as we just see so much electronics being pushed into new areas of the industrial market.
I mean just to call it industrial is almost so general because there’s so many segments in there: rail mass transit heavy equipment medical instrumentation all the energy-related things that the automation the machine tool lighting.
You name it.
I mean there's just so many exciting things happening across all of those markets.
That gives us real great confidence in the future performance of the industrial market.
Our final question comes from Brian White with Topeka.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the IT and data market in the December quarter how can we parse out the computing portion of that storage and servers compared to the networking and expectations for the fourth quarter? Yes I mean I think what I can tell you just relative to the third quarter first Brian is the strength that we saw in the third quarter on a year-over-year basis was more driven by servers than it was by networking.
With respect to the fourth quarter it's hard to get so granular about how that outlook is.
I would just tell you that we see just more of a general moderation in terms of the willingness of end IT customers to spend as much money as they normally do.
I mean people have talked in years past about this kind of "year-end budget flush" among IT managers and at least we have not seen clear signs that such a year-end budget flush is going to happen as significantly in 2012 given all the uncertainties that are around today.
And I would think that that's equally true whether you're talking about server storage or networking.
But look there are many OEMs who are closer to it than we are that would be good to talk to.
Research Division</strong> Do you see a lot of innovation in new products in these markets in IT and data? Or has that also stopped? No I mean I would tell you that the innovation has accelerated.
I mean this year the number of new programs that we have been working on is really almost I would say unequaled in at least in recent memory.
And that is all driven by just that simple fact that the networks just got to do more with less.
They are cranking so much data out predominantly because of video that the -- our customers who are really competing neck and neck in the marketplace are trying to develop machines and equipment that has greater functionality to process all of this data and so they're continuing just tremendous tremendous initiatives that are ongoing.
Some of these are extremely long-term initiatives.
What you wouldn't say is going to support sales in the fourth quarter even in the first quarter some of those are more near term.
What is clear around all of them is there are 2 paramount concerns by our customers.
One is they got to get more data through the system and  two is they got to use less power doing so.
And our excellent products on both those fronts are really finding great reception by all the customers.
Research Division</strong> And that is across both networking and the computing side of the IT and data? Yes.
I mean it's really across the board.
I mean we deal with the server storage and networking all of the above.
Well at this time I think there are no further questions and once again we’d like to thank all of you for your time and attention today.
And since we won't have the chance to speak to you until next year wish you a great year end and holiday season and we'll talk to you in 2013.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
That does conclude the call at this time.
All participants may disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome you all to our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Q4 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the fourth quarter achieving new records in both sales and earnings per share with sales of $1.146 billion and EPS before onetime items of $0.94 beating the high end of the company's guidance.
Sales were up 21% in both U.S.
dollars and local currencies compared to Q4 of 2011.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and FX sales in Q4 2012 were up 15% versus last year.
Sequentially sales were up 4% in U.S.
dollars and 1% organically from Q3.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components our Cable business which comprise 7% of our sales was up 40% from last year and 22% from last quarter primarily as a result of the acquisition closed at the end of Q3.
The Interconnect business which comprise 93% of our sales was up 19% from last year and 3% sequentially and Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few moments.
For the full year 2012 sales were $4.292 billion and up 9% in U.S.
dollars and 5% organically over last year a very strong performance in a challenging market.
Operating income excluding onetime items was $223 million in Q4 2012 compared to prior year operating income of $175 million.
Operating margin excluding onetime items was 19.5% in Q4 up 100 basis points from 18.5% in Q4 of last year and equal to the 19.5% reported in Q3 of 2012.
The company achieved a good conversion margin on incremental sales of approximately 24% over the prior year levels.
From a segment perspective in the Cable segment margins were 13.2% up slightly from last year and up 80 basis points from last quarter.
The improvement in margin over last year -- over last quarter excuse me relates primarily to the favorable product mix from the recent acquisition.
In the Interconnect business margins were 21.7% up from 20.8% last year and equal to last quarter.
The year-over-year Interconnect operating margin improvement primarily reflects the positive impacts of higher volume and cost reduction actions.
For the full year 2012 the company achieved operating income margins of 19.3% up 10 basis points from last year achieving a year-over-year conversion margin on incremental sales of 21%.
We're very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement.
We continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control allows us to react in a fast and flexible manner thereby constantly adjusting the business to maximize profitability in what certainly continues to be a dynamic environment.
Through the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved sequential improvement in operating margins during 2012 and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
Interest expense for the quarter was $15.6 million compared to $11.1 million last year reflecting higher average debt levels from the company's stock buyback program and the higher interest expense associated with the company's January 2012 senior note offering.
Other income was $2.7 million in Q4 2012 up from $2 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income on higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
The company's effective tax rate including the impact -- excluding the impact of onetime items is approximately 26.4% in both Q4 of this year and Q4 of last year.
For the full year excluding the impact of onetime items the rate was approximately 26.8% both in 2012 and 2011.
And we currently expect a similar rate in 2013 again excluding the impact of any onetime items.
On an as-reported basis the company's effective tax rate was 32% in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 28% for the full year 2012 and included income tax costs of approximately $11 million or $0.07 per share resulting from the delay by the U.S.
Government in the reinstatement of certain federal income tax provisions for the year 2012 relating primarily to research and development credits and certain U.S.
taxes on foreign income.
Such tax provisions were reinstated on January 2 2013 with a retroactive effect to 2012.
Under U.S.
GAAP the related benefit to the company of $11 million or $0.07 per share relating to the 2012 tax year will be recorded as a onetime benefit in the first quarter of 2013 at the date of reinstatement.
As such between the 2 quarters there's no net impact on the company from an income statement perspective.
Net income excluding onetime items was approximately 13% of sales both in Q4 and for the full year 2012.
Earnings per share excluding onetime items increased 29% in the fourth quarter to $0.94 and for the full year 2012 was up 14% to $3.47 a very strong performance.
On an as-reported basis EPS was $0.86 and $0.69 in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 2011 respectively and included certain onetime items.
The 2012 period includes onetime charges of $0.08 per share comprised of the $0.07 in taxes I just described and $0.01 relating to 2012 acquisition-related transaction costs.
The 2011 period including one -- included onetime charges of $0.04 per share comprised of $0.03 per share relating to the previously reported flood damage at the company's Sidney New York facility and $0.01 per share relating to acquisition-related transaction costs for 2011 acquisitions.
Orders for the quarter were $1.125 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 0.98:1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash.
Cash flow from operations in Q4 was a strong $207 million.
And for the full year 2012 operating cash flow stood at $675 million or 120% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
The company closed the year with solid working capital management.
Inventory was $734 million at the end of December and inventory days stood at 83 days down 6 days from prior year levels.
Accounts receivable was $911 million at the end of the year with days sales outstanding of 72 days which was comparable to prior year levels.
And accounts payable was $497 million at the end of the year from a day’s perspective up 3 days from last year.
Cash flow from operations of $207 million along with borrowings under the company's credit facilities of $101 million and $26 million of proceeds from option exercises were used primarily to fund capital expenditures of $33 million in the quarter; the purchase of approximately 2.5 million shares of the company's common stock for $151 million; payments of $72 million related to the acquisition of Tel-Ad; dividend payments of $34 million including $17 million to fund the January 2013 dividend; and the balance of an increase in cash and cash investments of approximately $50 million.
During the quarter the company completed purchases of stock under the existing 20 million-share buyback program.
Shares under the program were purchased during the period from January 2011 to December 2012 at an average cost of $52.61.
The company's Board of Directors has authorized a new open market share buyback program under which the company may purchase up to 10 million shares.
The program expires in January 2015.
At December 31 cash and short-term investments were $943 million the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
Total debt at December 31 was $1.7 billion and net debt was approximately $764 million.
At quarter end borrowings and availability under the revolving credit facility were both $0.5 billion.
The company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remain very strong at approximately 1.6x and 17x respectively.
EBITDA in the quarter was $267 million bringing full year 2012 EBITDA to over $1 billion.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent performance.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana.
I appreciate that.
And let me take this opportunity to thank you all for joining our call and to wish you a happy new year.
I'm going to spend a little bit of time to highlight our fourth quarter as well as our full year 2012 achievements; I'll then discuss the trends and the progress in our served markets; and then finally I'll make a few comments on our outlook for the first quarter and full year 2013; then we'll have some time for questions at the end.
I'm very pleased to report that the company achieved a third consecutive record quarter as we reached new historical highs in orders sales and earnings per share exceeding the high end of the company's guidance.
It is in particular very satisfying that we were able to achieve these performance records despite the ongoing uncertainties that are still existing in the global economy.
Revenues in the quarter increased a very strong 21% from prior year and 4% sequentially reaching $1.146 billion.
And the company booked as well a record $1.125 billion in orders which was a book-to-bill of 0.98:1.
We also continued to focus very much on profitability.
And in this quarter we generated very strong margins growing 1 full percentage point from prior year to 19.5%.
I remain extremely proud of our Amphenol team.
It is in the dynamic times like these when the true value of the discipline and the agility of our entrepreneurial organization is most clearly revealed as we have continued to capitalize on the many available opportunities for growth while also driving superior operating performance.
I'm also very pleased that we were able to complete our fifth acquisition of the year in the fourth quarter.
We acquired the interconnect assembly business of Tel-Ad Electronics an Israel-based supplier of value-add interconnect solutions with annual sales of approximately $60 million.
Tel-Ad has a leading position in the very exciting Israeli high-tech market servicing a wide array of customers in many diverse markets including in particular the communications markets as well as industrial and medical.
This acquisition positions us to participate strongly with the many companies driving tremendous technology innovation within Israel and we're very excited about the management team and the technology team that comes along with that deal.
The acquisition of Tel-Ad is consistent with our ongoing and successful strategy to acquire complementary companies with strong management leading technology and excellent market presence.
And as we welcome this strong new team to Amphenol we remain very confident that our acquisition program will continue to create value for Amphenol in the future.
In addition our confidence in the sustained financial strength of the company is reflected in the approval by our Board of Directors of a new 10 million share-stock buyback program.
Now reflecting on the full year of 2012 I think I would just like to say that 2012 was an outstanding year for Amphenol.
Our company surpassed $4 billion in sales for the first time in our more than 80-year history and achieved new performance records: $4.292 billion in sales $3.47 in earnings per share together with 19.3% operating margins.
We're especially pleased that we have continued to expand our market position growing by approximately 9% in 2012 which appears to be significantly above overall industry growth rate expectations.
And in 2012 we accelerated our acquisition program adding 5 new family members to Amphenol in the automotive the industrial the commercial air the broadband and the IT/Datacom markets all creating excellent new platforms for future expansion for the company.
Our consistent focus on technology innovation and customer support through all phases of the economic cycle have resulted in the company strengthening our position across each of our important end markets.
In addition our organization has accelerated the development of innovative interconnect technologies.
These developments have allowed Amphenol to capitalize on exciting new areas of the ever-expanding electronics market thereby broadening the opportunity for our future growth.
We have a clear mission: to be the enabler of the electronics revolution.
And that mission has been very successful thus far and will be a great driver of our success going forward.
As we close 2012 we find it very rewarding that the Amphenol organization has again built a new platform of strength thereby creating optimism for our future performance.
Now turning to the trends and progress in our various served markets I'd just like to point out that our results in the fourth quarter once again confirm that end market diversification of our company is a tremendous asset especially given the continuing high degree of uncertainty that's still present in the global economy.
Turning first to the military market the military market represented 13% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased 5% from prior year as we benefited from our position on a range of new programs with high electronics content.
On a sequential basis sales also increased by approximately 5% on expected seasonal uptick.
For the full year 2012 sales declined by approximately 4%.
Going forward we expect demand in the military market to remain at roughly these levels in the near term.
There no doubt remains uncertainty in the defense budgets of many developed economies which may indeed moderate our growth opportunities in the military market in 2013.
Nevertheless we remain very confident that the increasing electronic content in military equipment together with our broad program participation as well as strong positions in the higher-growth emerging markets will drive growth in the military market for Amphenol in the future.
The commercial aerospace market represented 5% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a very strong 23% from prior year as we continued to capitalize on increased demand resulting from higher levels of jetliner production as well as from the launch of new airplane platforms.
Sales increased as well from the third quarter rising 11% sequentially as we benefited from both normal seasonality as well as the acceleration of build rates on certain new platforms.
For the full year sales grew a very strong 20%.
The commercial air market continued to be exciting for Amphenol as we're taking advantage of what is really a revolution in electronics adoption in planes.
New airplanes are incorporating electronics to create enhanced passenger experience and comfort new levels of fuel efficiency as well as ease of operation.
Looking forward we expect sales in the commercial air market to increase sequentially in the first quarter and continue to have a positive outlook for this market in 2013 and beyond.
The industrial market represented 13% of our sales in the quarter and sales to customers in the diversified industrial market increased 15% from prior year driven in particular by both organic and acquisition-related growth particularly in the energy-related markets.
Sequentially we did experience a reduction in sales of approximately 7% due to increased levels of economic uncertainty mostly focused in Europe.
However for the full year we're very pleased to have grown a strong 16% overall.
We continue to make excellent progress broadening our technology offering and increasing our penetration of the many exciting growth segments of the industrial market which includes especially alternative energy oil and gas heavy equipment and factory automation.
We expect the overall industrial market to return to sequential growth in the first quarter and we look forward to strong momentum for growth in the full year 2013 as our new interconnect technologies continue to proliferate across a very diverse range of industrial applications.
The automotive market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter and sales increased a very strong 19% from prior year on an increase in overall vehicle volumes together with growth related to new electronics applications.
In addition our growth was supported by both the FEP and Deutgen acquisitions that came both at the end of last year and early this year.
As expected sales were slightly down sequentially in the fourth quarter due to a moderation in production among some European automakers.
For the full year however we're very pleased to have achieved strong growth of 37% resulting in the end in the automotive market representing now 11% of total Amphenol for the full year 2012.
We're very excited by the significant expansion of our high-technology product offering resulting from the 3 acquisitions we have made since 2011.
And in addition we continue to invest in broadening our organic technology developments leading to a growing presence on a diverse range of new automobile electronics.
Looking ahead we expect stronger demand in the first quarter as our new program momentum continues and we look forward  to strong performance for the automotive market in 2013 and beyond.
The mobile devices market represented 24% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased substantially from prior year as our design-ins of high-technology components on a diverse range of new mobile computing platforms led to unexpectedly strong growth of 42% year-over-year.
Sequentially sales increased by a greater-than-expected 15% from the third quarter as customers increased the volumes of newly launched products in order to ensure broad availability in the marketplace.
For the full year sales in the mobile device market grew by 9% an excellent performance given the significant dynamics that are still ongoing in this market.
While we believe that we experienced higher-than-expected demand in the fourth quarter from certain customers and thus expect a more significant-than-normal seasonal reduction in demand going into the first quarter we look forward to our overall growth rates for 2013 to be at similar levels as in 2012.
We remain very excited by our continued strong position in the always very dynamic mobile device market and in particular are encouraged by our excellent technology positions across a wide range of new mobile computing platforms which together with our extremely agile organization positions us strongly for the future.
Mobile networks market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter.
And we are very pleased to experience strong 24% growth compared to last year's difficult fourth quarter 2011 as our excellent design-in positions on new next-generation base stations together with sales of our high-technology antenna products drove to these increased sales levels.
Sales in the quarter were flat sequentially on expected seasonality.
And for the full year sales were still down by approximately 6%.
While we expect a moderation of demand in the first quarter we do look forward to long-term strength as operators accelerate their network build-outs in order to relieve the pent-up demand for increased coverage and capacity which exist on many networks.
We're well positioned in this market due to our broad design-in positions on new base station platforms as well as our strong presence with a diverse range of global wireless operators.
Information technology and data communications market represented 18% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased 9% from prior year with strength especially in products incorporated into latest generation servers.
And sales declined by approximately 4% sequentially on an expected slowdown in the momentum of spending by customers across the IT market.
For the full year 2012 our sales increased a strong 8% as we capitalized on our many new design-ins of both high-speed and power products into next-generation data center equipment.
We're particularly excited that with the addition of Tel-Ad we now establish an excellent design and manufacturing presence in Israel which is in many ways the Silicon Valley of Europe.
While we do expect a further moderation of IT-related demand in the first quarter as we look forward towards 2013 and beyond we're excited by the potential created by our ongoing new program wins with many new advanced technology platforms.
Our customers continue to push their data center equipment towards new levels of performance in order to handle the rapid expansion of data which is driven in particular by the many new mobile devices as well as by the continuing spread and prevalence of video on the Internet.
The broadband market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in that market increased a very strong 36% from prior year and 18% sequentially supported by the addition of Holland together with an increase in sales of our value-added cable and interconnect products.
For the full year sales expanded by 10% an excellent performance given the continued uncertainty that has been present in this market.
We expect demand in the broadband market to improve seasonally going into the first quarter and are very excited to realize the long-term benefits of the Holland acquisition as well as our organic technology diversification efforts.
So in summary I'm extremely proud of the dynamic Amphenol organization as we have continued to execute very well in what is still a very challenging market environment.
Our new record results in both the fourth quarter and the full year of 2012 confirm again the strength of the Amphenol team.
And that team and the superior performance from that team is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages: our leading technology; our increasing position with customers in diverse markets; our worldwide presence; a lean and flexible cost structure; and most importantly the discipline and agility of our entrepreneurial management team.
Now turning towards our outlook.
Based on a continuation of current global economic environment as well as constant exchange rates we now expect in the first quarter and full year 2013 the following.
For the first quarter we expect sales in the range of $1.055 billion to $1.080 billion and earnings per share in the range of $0.84 to $0.87 respectively.
And for the full year 2013 assuming normal seasonal patterns we expect sales in the range of $4.555 billion to $4.655 billion and earnings per share in the range of $3.72 to $3.84 respectively.
For the full year this represents sales and earnings per share growth of 6% to 8% and 7% to 11% excluding onetime items respectively.
We're very encouraged by this strong outlook in sales and earnings especially given the continued uncertainties in the global economy.
And I am very confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to build upon our new record levels of revenues and earnings per share established in 2012 and to continue to capitalize on the many opportunities to grow our market position and to expand upon our profitability.
Operator at this time we'd be very happy to entertain any questions that there may be.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Sherri Scribner from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could dig a little bit more into what's going on in the info tech market.
I think you said that business was weak at the end of the quarter.
Just wanted to get a sense of is that primarily on the server and storage side? Is that primarily on the telecom side? Maybe you can provide a little more detail.
Sure.
Now thank you very much Sherri for the question.
Look the fourth quarter certainly on a year-over-year basis was strong.
And the strength in the fourth quarter was in particular driven by servers and there are a lot of new-release servers where we have an expanded position on those servers with a lot of our new high-speed products as well as especially power products where more and more the efficiency of power in those servers becomes a real selling factor for our customers.
We had anticipated and we have heard from our customers going into the fourth quarter that the overall spending patterns from their customers appeared to be moderating somewhat.
And I think we even talked about at the last conference call that that evolved.
The markets appeared to be one where there was some macro global economic impact to that market.
And I think as we go into the first quarter we continue to see and hear from our customers that in general the outlook from the various IT managers around the world is not really any more positive and has not turned more positive.
And that's why we have given guidance going into the quarter that we would expect some degree of further moderation.
But whether that is in servers or networking or transmission or whether -- or storage that's not necessarily so clear to us sitting where we sit today.
But the overall budgeting and the overall spending among the IT managers of the world appears to still be somewhat conservative.
That all being said we have done a great job this year in ensuring our position across-the-board.
Because as you may know the IT industry has one other characteristic that is relatively new this year and in the prior couple of years which is the level of competition among the equipment makers has truly ratcheted up.
Whether that is from new entrants or people who were traditionally involved in one segment now getting into other segments there is just a real tremendous dogfight going on in the IT industry.
We don't bet on which of those dogs is going to win the fight.
We have worked very hard to ensure strong position across-the-board in -- among all of the major manufacturers of IT hardware and data center hardware.
And in my mind the demand for data driven by video driven by these mobile devices that continues to create a tremendous level of end demand eventually that will eventually demand some of this equipment to be produced and we have very very strong positions across-the-board there.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And I just wanted to quickly ask about the automotive segment.
You had commented that you thought that segment would be weak in the fourth quarter and it was driven by Europe.
But you suggested in the guidance that maybe that is getting better and I'm just curious about that considering some of the comments we've heard about auto in the U.S.
maybe being a bit softer.
So I just want to get your overall thoughts.
Sure.
No no.
Well look I mean we should not be a bellwether for automotive.
Obviously our position on automotive it's 11% of sales which we're very proud of and it's a lot more than it used to be is not necessarily reflective of the whole market for Interconnect in auto.
But what we have seen very clearly and we see that with the optimism that we have going into the first quarter is that we've been working a lot on a lot of new electronics for cars and those are going into cars which are being built and are -- where the build rates are going up going into the first quarter.
So it's a combination of new programs that we have successfully designed into combination of those products that we're selling into also selling well in the end market.
So whether that is a broader industry trend or an Amphenol-only trend I'm not here to say either way.
But certainly what we see from our customers and the programs that we're designed into is that there is a good expectation going into the first quarter.
And it was no surprise to us that we saw in the fourth quarter some slight decline in that market given all what we have seen in Europe which still is the majority of our sales into the automotive market.
Your next question will come from Matt Sheerin from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question Adam regarding the mobility sector which was obviously up very strong and you guided down perhaps more than seasonal.
Could you give us an idea? Sequentially it looks like -- just sort of backing into your guidance by end market it looks like that's going to be down 20-plus percent or so.
Can you confirm that? And then also could you give us an idea of the diversification within that business tablets versus smartphones and customer concentration because obviously there's 2 very big customers doing well and the 2 ecosystems.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how diversified you are within that segment.
Sure.
Matt just to take the first part of your question in terms of the sequential decline we think it could be about twice normal.
And normal what we've seen is somewhere in the sort of 13% to 15% sequential decline.
And we think because of that that strength in the fourth quarter and what Adam described before that it could be twice that as we go into Q1.
And maybe Adam wants to talk about the rest of the question.
Yes and I think just relative to the fourth quarter we did see great strength there.
There are a lot of new programs launching.
We had good position on those new programs.
And it can happen.
We -- obviously it exceeded our expectations in the fourth quarter on the volumes and some of that volume for the fourth quarter maybe would have normally been in the first quarter.
Relative to the diversification I mean our position is actually quite diverse there.
You're correct there's only a few players.
But I would say that there's more than 2 by the way but there's certainly not 20.
And we have a good position across-the-board with these players.
Our growth this year and the fourth quarter is no different has not been driven by phones necessarily because I have talked about in the past that we have seen more of a commoditization of those phones whereby the value in the phone becomes more the software and not the unique properties of the hardware where we can add value.
Conversely we have seen in tablets in ultrabooks and what I have really termed mobile computing devices a tremendous amount of hardware innovation interconnect innovation antenna innovation mechanism innovation whereby our R&amp;D teams around the world and predominantly in Asia where they are have been able to work with customers to truly enable new functionalities in those devices which allow our customers the opportunity to sell more of them.
And so the -- it is really on those mobile computing devices where we have seen more of the growth in the quarter.
We continue to participate in smartphones but that's not what's driving the growth today.
Next question is from Brian White with Topeka.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious if you could talk a little bit about the mobile device market for 2013.
I just want to clarify.
You said there would be no growth for that market? No what we -- what I said is that our growth in the 2013 would be at similar levels as it was in 2012.
Apologies if that was not so clear.
We grew this year by about 9% and we would expect similar order of magnitude going into 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And a lot of the ultrabooks seem to be coming out sometime in 2013 so maybe you benefited from some of the new programs at the end of 2012.
But when do you think we'll see the big ultrabook ramp in 2013? Is it first half or more second half? Yes I -- honestly I wouldn't really be able to say.
I mean there are products that seem to get released at different times.
And there are products where you don't even know.
Do you call it a tablet or an ultrabook as they come out? Do you call it an ultrabook when the keyboard is detachable or not? I mean that I have a hard time.
So I lump them all kind of into one group now which is really this mobile computing devices.
And at least as far as we've seen those may get released over the course of the year.
It is true that in the fourth quarter there were a lot of them released and there was a lot of production to support those releases.
And I think that's part of what we saw in the fourth quarter in particular with a lot of those new releases.
When will they get released going forward? It's hard to say.
I think companies are constantly changing their schedules.
The big guys are tweaking all the time.
When do they release a product? Tactically do they do it for Christmas? Do they do it for Chinese New Year? Do they do it for the summer holidays? Do they do it for back-to-school? I mean there appears to be so many schools of thought about the appropriate timing of a release and my sense is they are constantly experimenting with this.
So for us to make a guess about when that would be I wouldn't be well enough placed to make an accurate guess about that.
Your next question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Two questions.
Just first on the mobile networks business.
It seems like you're maybe a little bit cautious here short term but you had a good 2012.
How do you see growth in that market I guess coming around for 2013 particularly given that it looks like China may start spending again on wireless infrastructure? Yes well thank you very much Shawn.
I think we had a good fourth quarter in wireless infrastructure.
I wouldn't say that we had necessarily a good 2012 at least my personal assessment of it.
I mean to be entirely honest the market was slightly down in the year.
That's clearly not our aspiration for that market.
There's an old saying "One swallow does not make a summer " and I think we are appropriately cautious about that market.
The dynamics of that market have certainly been very challenging over really the last 7 8 quarters as I think the economical models that the operators are facing -- when do they spend the money how much do they spend what do they spend it on -- they're still wrestling with that.
Our -- the benefit that we got in the fourth quarter clearly there was a comparison to a very difficult fourth quarter last year.
But in addition we have not sat on our heels during these difficult quarters in mobile infrastructure.
Rather we have gone out and relentlessly tried to get design-in positions of a lot of new technologies on new base stations in particular but also in spreading our wings with more of the operators with our antenna products.
And I think we've done a great job at that.
And we see that in the fourth quarter where these are -- this is really driven by a lot of these new base station platforms.
We see going forward that to the extent that they sell these new smaller call it microcells with a different architecture going up onto the tower for example that we will be very strongly positioned.
But I think it's too early to call it a full-on recovery of mobile infrastructure.
We remain very very close to the customers and we're really the only company in this industry who is close on both sides.
I mean we're very close with the OEMs we're very close with the operators.
And so rest assured that when those opportunities come we will really be there to participate.
But again too early to call one strong year-over-year growth quarter a successful trend and we remain still very very cautious about that market but hopeful that as the year goes on we can start to see good momentum there.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up I don't mean to nitpick on the fourth quarter but Interconnect incremental margins were maybe a little lighter than you would typically like to see.
Was that more just a function of mix? Because it looks like the guidance for '13 you're back to more of a normalized incremental EBIT margin.
Yes look I mean I think that not every quarter is going to be exactly the same incremental margins as every other quarter and so we do have this 25% conversion margin goal.
But I think when we look at the margins that we've achieved both in Q4 and both for the full year 2012 we feel really good about the margin achievement.
We achieved a 24% year-over-year conversion margin in Q4 hitting 19.5% ROS and 21% for the full year 2012.
As you point out we -- in our guidance we have what we would consider to be good conversion margins and are guiding to increased ROS.
And to guiding I think to increased ROS given the ROS levels that we're already at you can see that the whole team is really committed to getting more margin expansion.
I think that's really saying something given the levels of profitability that we're at.
And so I think that the fact is just that we're probably not going to hit 25% incremental margins each quarter but I also don't think that should not take anything away from the achievements that we've had from a profitability perspective.
Your next question will come from Steven Fox with Cross Research.
Two questions for me.
First of all just one clarification on the mobile networks side.
Adam for the full year are you guys saying that you think you can grow your business in mobile networks? Or is it still too tough of a market? I'm not totally clear on that.
And if you are growing how are you doing that? And then secondly just looking back at some of the acquisitions maybe not the one you just announced but maybe the previous 4 or 5 is there anything you can just sort of talk around the synergies that you may have realized either them -- the acquisitions you bought benefiting your business or vice versa or how you've sort of gotten more out of what you invested in the companies to begin with? That'd be helpful.
Well thank you very much Steve.
Relative to your first question on mobile networks our guidance assumes really not very substantial growth in the mobile networks market for the full year.
I think I explained the basis of that in the prior question.
But we certainly will look forward to targeting any incremental opportunity to actually drive growth.
Our hope and certainly a goal would be to have growth in that market.
But today we are not guiding to any of that growth.
Relative to the prior acquisitions that we made that is 5 for the year you know very well that we have what I would call a relatively unique approach to acquisitions which is we don't acquire companies with the hope to change them.
We don't go in and change management.
We don't go in and completely revamp their systems or change their sales force or any of this.
Rather what we do when we make these acquisitions first we let them settle down because it's always for the people something very different to be acquired by a global company.
But second and most importantly is we sit down with them and we identify where are those opportunities that we could create for you some new open doors.
And I can tell you that with all of those companies that we have acquired we've had those dialogues we've had some success.
It's not always quick.
It's not something that we kind of force-feed to the organizations because we want to make sure that the transition is smooth we want to make sure that we're not upsetting kind of something that we didn't even see within the company ahead of time.
You never know how delicate the balance is of an organization of a company that's been acquired.
But no doubt about it we have opened doors to all those companies that we have acquired.
And I mentioned earlier we have automotive company.
We have an industrial focus in oil and gas.
We have a company in the broadband sector.
We have now the IT &amp; Datacom we had the commercial air acquisition.
And for each one of those we have seen great new opportunities for expansion for those companies.
And in addition with several of them we have really seen that the combination of the products creates for our existing customers a more compelling reason to buy both of the products.
I mean in particular I'll mention we made this acquisition in the broadband market of Holland in the third quarter and that has been really outstanding in not just broadening our product offering into the cable market but also broadening our presence with the non-cable TV companies the satellite the telcos the companies overseas where Holland had a very strong position.
And so you find out that those customers would also like some of the products that we had before and our customers would like some of the products that Holland brings in.
And that's really a model for how we approach these acquisitions.
But we're not going in to try to realize some sort of immediate cost synergies or things like this.
I'm very proud that in all those companies the management team is still the management team and we have every intention to keep it that way for a long time to come.
Next question will come from Mike Wood with Macquarie Capital.
We touched on most of the segments except military commercial aero in the Q&amp;A.
And so I'm curious in terms of the pushout of the spending cut decisions how that's impacted customers' decisions.
And specifically if you can get into sort of the impact that has on programs that are unlikely to get cut where you've had heavier content on versus something that actually may get cut.
Sure.
No that's a very good question Mike.
Obviously we watched like everybody did on New Year's Eve.
I don't know which I was watching more the ball to drop or the shoe to drop on Capitol Hill but they were both equally entertaining from some perspective.
Look it wasn't great that they kicked the can here on sequestration.
I think it's fine.
I think there is a consensus that appears to be that this military is not just a line item on a budget but it's jobs it's technology.
There's a lot of importance that is ascribed to that.
Clearly budgets are going to be under pressure.
There's already existing budget cuts that are there.
But what we have seen is there's really no change to the status quo of the uncertainty of our customers following the New Year's Eve deal that came.
We'll see over the next 40 or 60 days whenever this next fiscal cliff 2 arrives what that will bring.
We will be prepared if something does happen that is more negative.
But today we are not sort of assuming that the sequestration is going to happen.
Relative to the programs that we're on I've said it before that technology and electronics in military hardware is a great methodology for the military long term to create savings.
And we continue to see that.
I mean we had sequential growth in military in the fourth quarter year-over-year growth.
And that growth is truly driven by new electronics applications things like radar upgrades things like new types of missile systems new networks that are being put in place UAVs.
I mean those type of "More bang for the buck" electronics continue to be very much the focus.
And when we talk to our customers which as you can imagine is every day we continue to hear from them that there is a high priority put upon accelerating the pace of the technology innovation in those areas where you can deliver value to the military.
And I don't think that's going to change.
I think some of these long-term programs things like the new fighter jet platforms and others it doesn't appear that those are going to be wholesale canceled.
And then it becomes a question for the military: Do we upgrade the old planes with new electronics? Or do we buy the new planes that have those new electronics in them? But either way we are relatively agnostic to that decision because we have good content on either one of those options.
Okay.
And also your cash balance continues to grow.
It may even be at record levels.
But is the plan there or is the pipeline the M&amp;A pipeline looking more robust? Or are you likely to then dig deeper into share repurchase if the M&amp;A pipeline doesn't materialize? Well I'll make a quick comment on M&amp;A and then  Diana may want to talk a little bit about the other capital structures.
We're very proud to have made 5 acquisitions this year.
So -- and the pipeline we had talked about it last year was very strong.
It worked out great for us.
And not every one of those acquisitions was related to people chasing on taxes.
There was not a tax increase in Israel at year end but we still were able to make those acquisitions.
Going into 2013 we still have a very robust pipeline and it's one that we continue to put a lot of focus on in growing it and we continue to see outstanding opportunities for acquisitions.
Are we going to close every year 5 acquisitions? Of course we will not.
But do we have still a strong pipeline? Absolutely.
And do we expect to continue that program? No question about it.
So just to I guess to add to what Adam said at the end of the quarter if we take the cash balance and the revolver availability it's about $1.5 billion which certainly is a substantial number.
We also have as you know very very very strong operating cash flows.
So we have a lot of capacity.
To your point how we deploy that capacity is certainly an important part of the strategy for the company.
And I can just echo what Adam said that the acquisition program clearly is the #1 priority for using that capacity and he has already really said why that is.
But I think in addition to that we have over the past few years and we continue -- we'll -- I think we will continue over the next few years to deploy what we would say is a very balanced approach to using that financial capacity that we have.
We certainly do think that stock buyback and the dividend program are both also good options to return value to shareholders and I think that to have some balance between all 3 of them -- acquisitions stock buyback and dividends -- is what works best from our perspective.
As you know we completed the repurchases under the stock buyback program that was set up in 2011 and actually purchased about 1.1 billion of stock over those 2 years.
Our Board has recently authorized a new program for another 10 million shares that can potentially be purchased over the next 2 years and I think you'll see us on a quarter-by-quarter basis depending on what we see from an acquisition pipeline look to deploy the same kind of balanced approach that you've seen us use in the last year.
Next question will come from Amitabh Passi from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Diana first question for you again not to nitpick.
If I look at your margins over the last 3 quarters gross margin's probably down 50 bps operating margins flat.
I was just wondering is this largely a function of mix with mobile devices ramping? Is there some of the dynamic at play here of pricing? Maybe cost pressures? Just any help you can provide there in terms of what's going on in the margin lines.
Sure.
I mean -- and we get this question from time to time and I know that some folks the way they run the business they look at gross margin and they manage that piece and they look at SG&amp;A and they manage that piece.
And I think as we've said before we manage the bottom line which is operating income and that has proven to be a pretty good strategy for us.
We've expanded margins in the year 2012.
We're guiding to more margin expansion next year.
I think that that mix between what ends up in cost of sales and the gross margin line and what ends up on SG&amp;A does vary as you said by market by product.
We have markets that are certainly more competitive like the mobile device market as an example where gross margins are lower but so is the SG&amp;A level because it's a more concentrated market and the volumes are bigger.
So we really look to get that operating income margin potential out of all of our markets and all of the products that we're in and that's how we manage.
I think we're achieving our goals using that method.
But you may as a result of that see some fluctuation from time to time and I think you have seen that during 2012 and it is largely due to the mix of the business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Adam just one for you on the mobile infrastructure market and I apologize if you touched on this.
I was very curious what you're seeing from a geographic basis.
Maybe if you could just provide us a high-level view of Europe North America and Asia Pac.
Sure.
Thanks very much Amitabh.
No I think that is an important question relative to the geography of mobile infra.
Obviously it's not a secret that there have been many of the next-generation build-outs that have been this year a little bit more focused in North America and I would just tell you that the strength we saw in the fourth quarter was by and large driven by North America.
It was not exclusive but clearly North America is where we saw more strength.
And I think going into this coming year I have heard like I'm sure you have that there are some rumblings about some next-generation builds in China.
There's also further builds that are happening in North America.
I've heard a little bit less relative to Europe and what's going to be built there.
But no question that these builds have to happen.
When the time comes when India eventually will fully build out a 3G network will China build TDSCDMA or will they build LTE or TD-LTE or what the format will in the end be? Will that be China Mobile or China Unicom? And these are all questions that I think today there's not necessarily a certainty to.
But wherever it comes whether that comes in Asia whether that comes here in North America or in Europe we're very well poised to take advantage of it.
But for now it appears that North America has been really more of a driver in the fourth quarter and I wouldn't expect tremendous change in that geographic spread going forward.
Your next question is from Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First a question for Adam and then a follow-up for Diana.
Adam on the integration I know that you said that we don't buy companies that need to be fixed or something.
But I was wondering with these integrations since they already have revenues of about $60 million per year is there anything as far as like sourcing or production or lower-cost areas that you can help them with? Or is it more truly an integration into the Amphenol portfolio and sharing of ideas and global footprint? I'm just wondering on the cost side if you guys since you're so global have the opportunity.
And then for Diana can you just quickly clarify your EPS outlook for Q1 and for 2013? Does it include any of the stock buyback that your board recently announced? I assume the answer's no but I don't want to be wrong on that.
And any details on why the inventory for Q4 went up yet sales for Q1 kind of should be going down? Sure.
Maybe I'll start Jim and then Adam can question afterwards.
From an EPS guidance perspective no we don't forecast any stock buyback beyond what we had done in the fourth quarter of 2012.
So you're correct in your assumption on the guidance.
From an inventory perspective on an as-reported basis inventory is up about 3% but most of the increase is related to the acquisition that we did at the very end of the quarter.
And then in addition there were some FX impact on the closing balance sheet.
Without that inventory is up maybe 1% or so.
Inventory days were actually consistent with the Q3 level at about 83 days and that's a pretty good level for us.
So if we then look at the guidance for Q1 the sequential decline pretty much all of the sequential decline in the guidance really went to the mobile device market.
The rest of the business if you would take that out is relatively flat.
The inventory that's carried in the mobile device market is actually quite low as you would imagine.
Given the short product life cycles and the real fast-changing pace of forecast in that market inventory levels and days are quite low.
And so that inventory tends to move in the quarter itself relative to sales volumes.
And so hopefully that explains why the inventory in the fourth quarter perhaps looks a little odd relative to the guidance for Q1.
Yes.
And Jim relative to the question about the integration of Tel-Ad we -- one thing I should say about Tel-Ad is it's not a new company to Amphenol.
We have known and worked with Tel-Ad for many many many years.
In fact they were kind of our representative for sometime from -- actually some decades in Israel.
And so it's a very known commodity.
So what does that mean? It means that relative to getting things done with them we don't have to kind of dance around each other.
We're old friends.
We can speak openly and without any sensitivity and really attack some potential opportunities.
And what those opportunities could be I think first and foremost is to leverage broader technologies into this very exciting market.
I mean I think I termed Israel kind of the Silicon Valley of Europe.
And the times that I have been there it's just very true.
You feel like you -- everywhere you drive you see another potential customer just like what happens when you drive around the San Jose and Menlo Park area.
And so that's #1 will really be looking at technologies and what technologies could we offer them from various other Amphenol operations where they feel that they could get a new leg up in the local market.
But that's not to say that some of the things that you mentioned -- sourcing or low-cost -- those opportunities will all be there for them.
But how that will happen is maybe a little bit different than the norm.
We don't have a central procurement organization.
So we're not going to step in with people from here in headquarters to say "All right tell us how much you pay for each thing and let's go down the list." Rather what we will do is we will open their opportunity for them to visit some of our vendors to test them to see is that's something that they could have some cost or technology benefit from.
And it will really be from their initiative working together collectively in the management team of the group that they're in in Amphenol.
So I think that there will certainly be opportunities on the cost side but I would view more the opportunities from especially the technology side to drive greater growth for the company.
Next question will come from Amit Daryanani with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions for me one on the mobile devices side.
You're talking about business being down 26% to 30%.
Could you just talk about if it's fairly broad based across all your customers that have seen a bit of a demand downtick? Or do you think it's more driven by a few customers that were aspiring to get into this market and were potentially not as successful as they thought they would be? Yes that was a very good question Amit.
Actually we see it as relatively broad based.
I think that we had a lot of customers who were doing certain things in the fourth quarter with new products and it appears that their expectations for the first quarter are pretty much I would say almost across-the-board along the lines that we have guided here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then as a follow-up if you could just maybe talk on the cash usage.
If one Diana you could touch on this CapEx plans for 2013 that would be helpful.
And I guess Adam when you look at the M&amp;A environment and you obviously had to your point a really good 2012 do you think North America especially as some of these private companies get a taste of higher taxes in 8 different directions they may be more inclined to sell this year versus the past? Maybe just to start with the CapEx question we -- in 2013 we think CapEx could be somewhere in the sort of 3.5% of sales range.
It's going to be a little bit higher still within our normal range as sort of 2% to 4%.
But it will be a little bit higher in 2013 because we will be funding the majority of the construction [indiscernible]  Facility up in upstate New York.
So I think if you use about a 3.5% to 4% number that should [indiscernible].
Relative to the M&amp;A environment Amit I think I've said it before that a seller is a seller psychologically first and then he or she is a seller for more sort of extraneous reasons.
Then if they are already a seller and then there is a new tax law change or some other kind of externality that comes along that could push them over the edge.
Last year there was an expectation I think among many people that tax rates could have gotten even worse than they got.
I mean there was some talk that capital gains could go and essentially be equalized with ordinary income.
And I would imagine that in North America in particular there were some people who saw that and said "Well I was already going to sell at some point in the next couple of years.
It would be wise to sell now." And I think we made a couple of North American acquisitions and I never asked them if that was the reason they were selling but there could have been some element of that.
And I think there were other acquisitions that were announced in our industry and others.
Will that make this year -- now that people have to pay essentially 23.8% on capital gains will that make a difference going forward? It's hard to say.
I think at the end of the day what matters is do they see for their company a prospect that is positive with Amphenol? Do they see for their family a desire to inject more liquidity into their estates? Those are the real important questions the first of which I think we have done a great job -- and we've ratcheted that up this year with our 5 acquisitions -- of creating a track record and a reputation in the industry which is very very strong where an entrepreneur can say to him or herself hey I can get the liquidity but if I join with Amphenol I can also realize some of the dreams that I and my team have had.
And I think that story and the compelling nature of that story is one that will continue going forward.
On the margin will it be tipped one way or another because of tax policy? I think that's hard to say.
But we feel very comfortable and optimistic about the long-term trajectory that we have on acquisitions and the continued opportunity that we have to find more companies.
Next question I have is from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America.
It's actually Ruplu filling in for Wamsi.
I just had a couple of questions.
I mean just on the M&amp;A again Adam you've had a very successful program obviously.
I was just wondering if you can touch on which end markets you'd now -- going forward which end markets do you see opportunities in.
Well I think we made acquisitions in all but 2 or 3 of our end markets this year and that's something that we're very proud of actually to have made 5 acquisitions each one in a different end market this year.
I wouldn't tell you that that's where we started the year and we said we planned to make in each of those end markets an acquisition.
But we're -- we clearly have a very diverse portfolio of companies that we're looking at in our pipeline.
Our priorities are to find companies that have unique technologies that have a compelling reason for customers to buy those products and a complementary nature to that which we already participate in.
And I would tell you that that's across all of our markets.
So I wouldn't say we're only going to do acquisitions in industrial or automotive or commercial air.
I mean we made acquisitions again in broadband which is maybe a market that we haven't said is necessarily the highest-growth market but where we feel with that acquisition now it's able to lever up the growth in the market.
And I think in every one of our markets there is an opportunity to add that unique complementary technology that strong management team from an acquisition that can create that lever-up on the growth potential for Amphenol in every one of our markets.
So there's not one that I would pick.
Just on the Cable Products it looks like you've had a pretty good sequential improvement in margins.
I was wondering if you can just talk about the pricing environment.
I mean how should we think about Cable Product margins as you go through the year? Yes I mean I think there hasn't been a very substantial change in the pricing environment.
Diana mentioned in her remarks that part of the benefit that we saw there was from the addition of Holland who had some higher-margin products higher-technology products.
And I think going forward the pricing environment is going to be what it's going to be.
We -- I've always said we are very disciplined on price and we will remain very disciplined on price going forward.
But our strategy is going to be to continue to try to sell higher value-added higher-technology products that allow us to not just sort of rise and fall with the tides of the commodities on the bulk cable.
Great.
And sorry the last one for me.
Just on -- looking at defense and aerospace defense obviously there are some possible headwinds because of budget constraints and aerospace is doing well.
So overall when you look at the mix of the business I mean at what -- how do you see the defense aerospace segment? Do you think it becomes a smaller part of the mix as we go through the year? When you say defense aerospace you mean the combination of military and/or commercial air market? Yes that's correct.
Yes I mean I think look those markets had actually -- if you look collectively at the 2 markets in the fourth quarter they grew 9% for the full year they grew 2% which is very much in line what I had been talking about for now a couple of years which is that the offset to the budgetary pressures in the military is the electronics that are coming in the military and where we've seen that acceleration in the electronics and it is the very high expectations that we would have in commercial air.
And I think that showed itself very clearly here in the quarter where our military/aerospace market essentially grew at the level of the total company even though military at 13% of sales commercial air is only 5% of sales.
And thus it is truly a good offset more than a good offset what commercial air was in the fourth quarter.
And looking forward I think we would expect the totality of those 2 markets to continue to show growth.
Clearly we'd expect a lot more growth in aerospace than we would expect in military but still believe that we have strong prospects in both of those -- in that collective the military and aerospace markets together.
Last question I show is from Tony Kure with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones here just say both questions and you can answer as appropriate.
Any notable change in the cadence on demand out of China during the fourth quarter or thus far into the first quarter? I'm just trying to gauge if you've seen any discernible trend as it relates to the impact from any stimulus programs.
And then secondarily if you can just comment on inventory levels at the distribution channel maybe what the sales outpace was during the quarter.
Great.
Well thank you very much Tony.
Just relative to your first question on China I don't know that we have seen any real dramatic change in as you termed it the cadence in demand in that market or any real noticeable impact of stimulus or the lack thereof.
Clearly the mobile device sales that we have is almost all to China because that's where all these things are made.
Where they're eventually sold to is another question.
So that's not something that we necessarily have full visibility into.
So if you were just going to look very strictly when you have strong growth in mobile devices you tend to have pretty good performance in Asia and in particular in China.
And when you have then a more substantial sequential downturn you tend to have also a more -- a strong sequential downturn in that market.
But beyond that I wouldn't say that we've picked up any significant signals either way in the China market.
Relative to the distribution channel I think inventories are just basically stable there.
We haven't seen any big changes either way.
I think distribution is for us somewhere around 11% 12% of sales now.
So it's clearly not a monstrous driver for the company.
But we certainly keep an eye out on distribution as a reflection of the broader economy and the broader trends.
And I would just say that in the fourth quarter it was basically stable no move up or down in either inventory or eventual sell-through.
There are no other questions at this time.
Well very good.
And I appreciate and we appreciate very much all of your interest in the company.
And we wish you an outstanding start to the new year and we look forward to speaking with everybody again here in a short 3 months.
Happy new year again and thank you all.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the First Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome you all to our first quarter earnings call.
Q1 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial comments on the quarter and Adam will then give an overview of the business and current trends and we'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company had a good start to 2013 with first quarter sales of $1 080 000 000 and EPS before onetime items of $0.87 cents meeting the high end of the company's guidance and growing sales 10% and EPS 13% over last year.
Sales were up 10% in both U.S.
dollars and local currencies compared to Q1 of 2012.
And from an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and foreign exchange impacts sales in Q1 2013 were up 4% from last year.
From a sequential perspective sales were down 6% in U.S.
dollars and 7% organically from a record Q4.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components our cable business which comprised 8% of our sales in the quarter was up 14% from last year with sales from a 2012 acquisition offsetting lower sales in our traditional cable products.
The Interconnect business which comprised 92% of our sales was up 10% from last year as a result of both increased demand and prior-year acquisitions and Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income was $207 million in the quarter compared to $185 million last year.
Operating margin was 19.2% in Q1 up from 18.9% in Q1 2012 a good conversion margin on incremental sales of approximately 22% from last year.
From a segment standpoint in the cable segment margins were 13.8% down from 14.5% last year.
The decline in margins from last year relates primarily to a favorable product mix in the prior-year quarter.
In the Interconnect business margins were 21.4% up from 21% last year.
The year-over-year interconnect operating margin improvement primarily reflects the positive impact of higher volume and cost reduction actions.
We are very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement and continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control allows us to react in a fast and flexible manner thereby constantly adjusting the business to maximize profitability in what clearly continues to be a very dynamic environment.
Through the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry-leading operating margins again in Q1 and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
Interest expense for the quarter was $15.5 million compared to $13.7 million last year reflecting higher average debt levels from the company's stock buyback program and the higher interest expense associated with the company's January 2012 note offering.
Other income was $2.8 million in the quarter up from $2.2 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income and higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
The company's effective tax rate excluding the impact of onetime items was approximately 26.7% in Q1 of 2013 and Q1 of 2012 and we currently expect the same rate for the full year of 2013 again excluding the impact of any onetime items.
On an as-reported basis the company's effective tax rate was 20.9% in Q1 2013 and included income tax benefits of approximately $11 million or $0.07 per share resulting from the delay by the U.S.
government and the reinstatement of certain federal income tax provisions for the year 2012 relating primarily to research and development credits and certain U.S.
taxes on foreign income.
Such tax provisions were reinstated on January 2 2013 with a retroactive effect to 2012.
Under U.S.
GAAP the related benefit of $11 million or $0.07 a share was recorded as a onetime benefit in the first quarter of 2013.
Net income excluding onetime items was approximately 13% of sales and EPS excluding onetime items increased 13% to $0.87 this quarter from $0.77 last year a strong performance.
On an as-reported basis EPS was $0.94 in the first quarter of 2013 and included that onetime tax item that I just mentioned.
Orders for the quarter were a strong $1 120 000 000 resulting in a book-to-bill ratio in Q1 of approximately 1.04:1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash and achieved cash flow from operations in the quarter of $180 million or 118% of net income.
The company continues to target and achieve cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
From a working capital standpoint inventory declined 3% from December and was $712 million at the end of March.
Inventory days were at 86 days up 3 days from December and down 2 days from prior-year levels.
Accounts receivable was $862 million.
Days sales outstanding was 73 days up 3 days from prior year levels and 1 day from December.
Accounts payable was $446 million at March 31 and 54 days down 2 days from last quarter and comparable to last year.
The strong cash flow from operations of $180 million along with proceeds from option exercises of $39 million was used primarily for capital expenditures for the purchase of 1.2 million shares of the company's stock of $85 million repayment of borrowings under the company's credit facilities of $18 million and an increase in cash and cash investments of $79 million in the quarter.
The company had 8.8 million shares remaining under its stock repurchase program at the end of March and that program expires in January of 2015.
Cash and short-term investments were $1 022 000 000 at the end of March the majority of which was held outside the U.S.
and debt was $1 688 000 000 bringing net debt to $666 million at the end of the quarter.
Borrowings and availability under our revolving credit facility were $491 million and $509 million respectively and the company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remain very strong at 1.6x and 17x respectively.
EBITDA in the first quarter was approximately $0.25 billion.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent quarter and a good start to the year.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana and let me take this opportunity as well to welcome all of you to our first quarter earnings call.
I'm going to spend a few moments to highlight several of our first quarter achievements.
I then plan to discuss the trends and the progress in our various served markets.
Then finally I'll make a few comments on our outlook for the second quarter as well as the full year 2013 leaving time at the end for some questions.
In the first quarter we are very pleased to report our results at the high end of guidance despite what is clearly continuing uncertainties in the global economic environment.
Revenues increased 10% from prior year and declined as expected by 6% sequentially.
As Diana mentioned orders were a very strong $1 120 000 000 representing a book-to-bill of 1.04:1 and creating confidence for our future performance.
We're especially pleased that despite the sequential decline in sales we once again generated industry-leading operating margins with first quarter return on sales of 19.2%.
With these results I'm once again very proud of our agile entrepreneurial organization as we continue to capitalize on the opportunities that are being created by the revolution in electronics and are demonstrating the discipline and drive necessary to deliver strong operating performance for the company.
Our management team continues to strive for a level of market diversification that once again in the first quarter has created significant value for the company.
As we look at those served markets turning first to the military market the military market represented 13% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market were flat to both prior year and prior quarter.
The stronger sales of our products are incorporated into both avionics equipment and sophisticated ordinance was offset by an overall moderation in purchasing activities by defense equipment manufacturers.
Not surprisingly uncertainties in the defense budgets of the U.S.
and Western Europe continue to create conservatism among customers in these geographies.
While we expect these uncertainties to continue we are seeing still clear indications of expanding investments in new electronic functionalities in military equipment as well as opportunities for growth in many developing geographies.
We expect demand in the military market to remain slightly below these levels in the second quarter as well as for the remainder of 2013.
Nevertheless we believe our technology leadership together with the broad program participation positions us to benefit long-term from the expanding adoption of electronics and military hardware.
The commercial aerospace market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased a very strong 15% from prior year and 8% sequentially on increased jet liner production together with our expanded content on new airliner platforms.
Despite some widely reported delays in certain new programs we remain very encouraged that new airplane platforms are incorporating innovative electronic features at a very rapid pace.
These innovations require new higher technology interconnect solutions both to enhance fuel efficiency as well as to improve overall passenger experience and usability of the airplane.
Looking forward we expect sales in the Commercial Air market to increase further in the second quarter and have overall a very positive outlook for this market in 2013 and beyond.
Our sales to customers in the very diverse industrial market represented 13% of sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased by 8% from prior year as the benefit from last year's acquisition of Nelson-Dunn offset lower overall market demand in the quarter.
Sales in the industrial market increased by 2% sequentially from the fourth quarter.
While there are certain segments of the industrial markets that have been impacted by weaker economies especially in Europe we continue to make excellent progress broadening our technology offering while also increasing our penetration of the many exciting growth segments of this market.
In particular we've made great progress in oil and gas alternative energy rail mass transit and factory automation all of which position us very strongly for the future.
We expect the overall industrial market to strengthen further in the second quarter as new interconnect technologies are adopted across a wide array of these and other applications.
The automotive market represented for us 12% of sales in the quarter.
Sales increased 9% from prior year and a strong 17% sequentially as we participated strongly in an increase in production volumes of vehicles that are incorporating an increasingly wide variety of new electronics.
We're very excited to see the results of our expansion into new high-technology automotive applications and we are realizing the benefits of our recent acquisitions combined with our long-term organic product development efforts.
No question that automakers are incorporating electronics into more and more new areas of performance management fuel efficiency and passenger infotainment all of which are creating great opportunities for Amphenol.
We expect sales in the automotive market to increase further in the second quarter as our participation in new programs continues to expand and we look forward to further long-term progress in this exciting market.
The mobile devices market represented for us 18% of sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a very strong 21% from prior year as our sales of new high-technology products onto new mobile computing platforms more than offset slower growth in mobile-phone-related products.
As expected sales declined 28% from our very strong fourth quarter results due to the combination of both normal seasonality together with post-ramp reductions in the volume of certain new programs.
We expect a moderate increase of demand going into the second quarter driven in particular by increasing sales of products for new mobile computing devices including especially tablets as well as laptops and ultrabooks.
We have a very strong technology position in this important and very dynamic end market due to a comprehensive portfolio of products for mobile devices as well as our preferred supplier relationships with essentially all major device makers.
The mobile networks market represented 10% of sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a robust 13% from prior year primarily due to stronger sales of our cell site installation products and decreased by 3% from the fourth quarter on normal seasonality.
We are encouraged to have now realized 2 consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth in the mobile infrastructure market as operators in certain geographies have begun to increase their spending on LTE as well as other next-generation networks.
It remains however too early to predict the full recovery in this market.
That being said in the second quarter we do expect a further increase in demand as operators continue to ramp up their network build-outs in order to relieve the gaps in both coverage and capacities which continue to exist in many wireless systems.
We look forward to further long-term strength in the mobile networks market driven by our broad designing positions on new base station platforms as well as by our strong position with a diverse range of global wireless operators.
The Information Technology and Data Communications market represented 19% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased by 5% from prior year led by growth in our products incorporated in particular into servers and storage equipment.
Sequentially sales declined by 5% due to continued moderation in procurement activity by customers in the IT market together with normal seasonality.
As our customers continue to strive for new levels of equipment performance in order to handle a dramatic expansion of data traffic our pipeline of new design opportunities with our next-generation products has strengthened significantly.
In particular we are working with many customers to help them design new systems that can handle the tremendous expansion of video traffic while at the same time reducing overall power consumption.
We expect demand to strengthen from these levels in the second quarter as sales of these new high-performing -- high performance products accelerate.
The broadband market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a strong 14% from prior year as the benefits of the Holland acquisition made in the fourth quarter offset a moderation demand by U.S.
and international cable operators.
Sales were down slightly from prior quarter on customer seasonality.
We are very encouraged to see the emerging benefits of our product and customer diversification which combined with the Holland acquisition has enabled us to grow our range of broadband customers while at the same time offering a more complete interconnect product offering.
This expanded offering has been very well-received by our customers in the broadband market.
We expect sales in this market to increase by somewhat more than normal seasonality in the second quarter as we benefit from new customer wins and we look forward to excellent long-term performance in the broadband market.
In summary with respect to the first quarter we are extremely proud of our organization as we have continued to execute well in what continues to be a very challenging and dynamic market environment.
Amphenol's superior performance is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages our leading technology our increasing position with customers across our many diverse markets the company's worldwide presence a lean and flexible cost structure and most critically our agile entrepreneurial management team.
Now turning to our outlook for the second quarter and based on constant exchange rates as well as normal seasonal patterns we now expect in the second quarter as well as for the full year 2013 the following results.
We expect sales in the range of $1 115 000 000 to $1 140 000 000 and $4 580 000 000 to $4 655 000 000 respectively.
We expect EPS in the range of $0.92 to $0.95 in the second quarter and $3.76 to $3.85 for the full year respectively.
For the full year these results would represent sales and EPS growth of 7% to 8% and 8% to 11% respectively.
We are very encouraged by the strong outlook in both sales and earnings especially given the many continuing uncertainties in the global economy.
The ongoing revolution in electronics continues to create for our company a tremendous number of opportunities.
I am confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities to both grow our market position as well as expand our profitability and thereby ultimately to drive the continued superior performance for Amphenol.
Thank you very much and operator at this time we'd be very happy to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Amit Daryanani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions from my side.
One first broadly could you just maybe just touch on the demand trends you saw in terms of linearity in the March quarter just in terms of did March end up on a soft notes or were things fairly stable throughout the quarter? Yes thank you very much Amit.
I think the first quarter was not different from most first quarters where January was a strong month February with Chinese New Year as you can imagine was not as strong and the quarter finished very well in March.
So nothing really abnormal in the demand trends.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then maybe if I just look at the capital allocation right now I mean you guys are sitting on a little over $1 billion of cash on hand.
The debt load's obviously manageable.
When you think about future capital usage and I realize M&amp;A is a key part of it can you just tell me maybe is it realistic for you to sustain the buyback base of 1 million shares a quarter on a fairly consistent basis for not just 2013 but potentially longer-term as well? Yes I think that Amit we don't guide to incremental share buybacks when we give guidance for the company.
I think that what we said in the past would still be consistent as we look out into the future and that is that we do try to have a balanced approach to the deployment of the company's financial strength.
As you mentioned the acquisition program clearly is the #1 priority because it provides the best both top line and bottom line growth potential for the company over the long-term but we have over the last few years.
Certainly it's been active from a stock buyback program and also we'll consider and continue to look at the dividends.
But I think if you look back and look at the way that we deployed the stock buyback in the past few years it wouldn't be an unreasonable assumption to think that we would probably continue that again borrowing whatever capacity we think we need to sustain the acquisition program in the future.
Next question comes from Matt Sheerin with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a question Adam regarding your commentary on the defense area where that's obviously going to be weak this quarter and then you said that you expected it to be down for the year.
Do you expect to see a flattening out in terms of orders particularly as we get through the fear portion of this sequestration? Or do you expect it to be even weaker? And then as a follow-up to that as you see this weakness are you taking any cost-cutting actions in place in order to preserve the margins in that business? Well thank you very much Matt for the question.
I think what I meant to say in the prepared remarks is we would expect it to be slightly down in the second quarter.
We expect it to sort of be at those levels throughout the course of the year.
We don't expect a kind of quarter-by-quarter continual reduction in demand.
I think that the market has been soft for some quarters and all the anticipation of what has been going on in the government spending arena with sequestration and otherwise.
Now you can bet that our actions at the factory level at the organizational level at the SG&amp;A level are appropriate given the amount of demand that we have seen and that organization is extremely agile.
They have taken the actions to reallocate resources to higher growth areas to remove those resources that are not necessary whether in the factory or otherwise and that's something that we will continue to do always in Amphenol in real time.
I mean if you just look across the company on roughly a 6% sequential reduction in sales in the first quarter our headcount was also down by about 6% in the quarter.
So that's something that we always as a company -- we don't wait for the market to tell us otherwise.
Our general managers are constantly reacting in real time to whatever changes in demand may come.
If demand moves up in military if it were to do that then they would make appropriate adjustments on that side as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And is it fair to say that on the margin side that the Commercial Aerospace part of the businesses has a similar margin profile so as you expand that that should offset any of the margin weakness from the defense side? I think we make good money in all of our markets.
And so I think there is certainly a distinction if you look from a segment perspective between the cable business and the interconnect business but we're talking about -- interconnect business is what  we're primarily talking about.
With these markets we -- the change in market presence historically has not had an impact on margin and we wouldn't expect that going forward.
Next question comes from Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> When we think about your company is faced with a interesting decision contemplating your all-time high cash levels right now which is a great situation to have.
But unfortunately banks like Citibank aren't paying a lot of interest rate these days.
So can you talk a little bit about -- you did not make any M&amp;A acquisitions this quarter.
Did anything slow down in the acquisition pipeline or anything with the taxes or the sequester that impacted the M&amp;A or should we just say that it just happened to be the -- an item based on the calendar and how timing happens to rollout with M&amp;A? Yes well Jim thank you very much for the question.
I mean we're all very proud that the company continuous to be a great generator of cash.
And as Diana said our top priority for that cash continues to be the M&amp;A program.
Last year we had a very successful year in the M&amp;A program.
We made 5 acquisitions in 5 totally different markets which added tremendous tremendous new platforms of growth for the company.
And you know after having followed the company for so many years that acquisitions are not coming regularly every quarter every month or whatever.
They come on a very regular basis.
We work them through our pipeline but at the end of the day when you get ultimately the seller to decide to sign the paper and close the deal to us that's something that is very hard to predict.
I'm not going to tell you that we will close a deal every quarter like we were fortunate to do last year but we still have a very very robust pipeline of acquisitions.
You mentioned the tax issue from last year where by maybe on the margin there may have been some sellers who if they were already destined to sell at some point the coming tax changes of 2012 or at the year end of 2012 may have on the margin pushed them slightly over the edge.
That was not though such a major driver of why we were able to do those acquisitions.
We are constantly working with companies in a variety of industries across the real breadth of the markets that we serve to incubate that acquisition pipeline.
And that's something that we continue to do and where we continue to believe that there's great opportunities for further acquisitions in the coming quarters and years.
Whether those will come in the second quarter in the third quarter that we can't tell you right now.
But certainly at such time as we do that you will be the first to know and we'll be very proud to have those.
The company Amphenol remains today in this industry what I would call the acquirer of choice.
Our track record of having completed more than 50 acquisitions over the last dozen years and the unique entrepreneurial way that we organize our company is extremely attractive when you talk to outside companies and that attractiveness has not changed.
So we look very much forward to continuing to deploy our cash towards acquisitions in addition to the various other levers for cash deployment that Diana has talked about.
When that will come here again we will let you know when it happens.
Research Division</strong> And as a quick follow-up raw material prices have been pretty volatile in the most recent couple of months whether it be copper or aluminum or those.
Can you help remind us about the ability of cash passthrough or does Amphenol kind of benefit when the copper goes down? Or is it more you purchase and you use it and have to manufacture it and you don't see it for a quarter or 2 down the road? Just kind of impact of raw materials for your company as we think about modeling going forward and the fluctuations of kind of copper aluminum what they've been doing.
Sure.
Look I think it seems in the last few weeks that there's been a pretty big movement down in certain commodity cost.
You mentioned copper gold and I guess that we would be the first to applaud and be pleased if such an environment continues and these prices continue to come down and clearly if they do come down once you work through existing inventories that are on hand clearly we would -- there would be a reduction in cost for us and for the rest of those who use those materials.
I think that the impact on margin is a somewhat more complicated equation that also has to do with what happens to pricing and demand in an environment like that.
But what I can tell you is that if there is a margin enhancement opportunity that presents itself because we do get into a better environment from a commodity perspective I think that the team here certainly would be the first to capitalize on it and would be thrilled to be in an environment that was different than it has been in the last few years where commodities have really been a big pressure I think for all manufacturers.
So we certainly look forward to hopefully having the opportunity to see those costs at a lower level but the impact on margin ultimately will depend upon also that balance with the pricing environment.
The next question comes from Amitabh Passi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Adam had a couple of questions on your end markets.
I think you talked about auto sales being up 17% sequentially definitely very surprised to see that number as robust as it was.
I mean it sounds like it's more than just production and content growth.
It sounds like you might be gaining some share or whether there's some program ramps.
Would love to get some color in terms of how we think about that 17% growth.
And then maybe just on your Wireless Infrastructure segment if you could give us some color in terms of geographic trends and how that's trending between your antenna business and your base station interconnect business.
Yes well thank you very much Amitabh for the questions.
And first with respect to automotive we were also very happy with the 17% growth.
I mean just remember our automotive business has been on a great trajectory for the last 3 or so years.
If we go back to the kind of the beginnings of 2009 automotive represented for 5% 6% of sales.
In this quarter it was 12% of sales.
So we have really executed on the strategy that we've been talking about which was to drive organic new product development [indiscernible] at the same time as we complement that with some very very nice high-technology acquisitions.
[indiscernible] in addition to a little bit of normal seasonality.
It was clearly the result from new programs that are ramping up share gains that we have been able to capitalize upon with customers around the world.
And that is something that we feel has the potential to continue as we look forward to an automotive business that has a lot of momentum behind it for Amphenol.
The basis of all of that has been the fact and not a new topic that I have mentioned in the past is really the fact that we see in the car today more electronics applications that allow us to create true value in our interconnect products for our customers and thereby to realize the profitability returns that we would expect to have.
That just was not the case historically in the automotive market and today we just see more and more new applications that are coming out that allow us to really participate.
And we're participating with components and we're participating with real significant interconnect value-add products with customers around the world.
Now relative to Wireless Infrastructure we were again very pleased to see 2 quarters in a row of growth on a year-over-year basis.
I mentioned that the growth driver this quarter was more what I would call the sell-side installation products.
These include our antenna products [indiscernible] growing array of interconnect products that go into sites sold both to operators as well as to OEMs.
And so we actually feel very good about the momentum in that part of the market.
Now ultimately will the operators on a worldwide basis continue to drive spending that we all know is necessary to support the coverage and the capacity of these overly stressed networks? That I think still remains to be seen and that's why we remain cautious about that market going forward but to the extent that the spending happens our position in the market both with OEMs as well as with operators is very very strong.
Now you also alluded to the geographical trends in that market and I think not surprisingly North America has been probably as a result North America was where smartphones and tablets and whatnot first exploded onto the scene.
North America seems to still be the place that has some of the most robust growth and robust investments in these next-generation networks.
We're hopeful that China will be following behind.
Europe it still remains to be seen how the economics are going to work out there relative to when that investment schedule will happen.
Ultimately we all know it has to happen and we will be there to participate when it does.
Next question comes from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Adam could you perhaps comment on how much of your portfolio you compete with the Japanese connector manufacturers? And are you seeing any change in their pricing strategies given this humongous move here in the yen? No thank you very much Wamsi.
It's a very interesting question.
In all honesty we don't compete a tremendous amount with a lot of companies from Japan.
As you know we traditionally don't have a huge Japanese business.
That has not been historically a huge market for us and I would tell you that I don't personally have any real anecdotal evidence about pricing behavior because we just don't -- we are not really going head-to-head so frequently with the more well-known companies in Japan.
Okay.
And another pricing question I guess this one on circular connectors have you noticed any change in pricing now that Deutsche has been part of TE for several quarters? Again I wouldn't say that there's been any noticeable change that would be at all meaningful to the company.
I'd still go back to the fact that when that company was acquired they broadly talked about that they wanted to increase the margins of the company and we continue to look forward to them trying to do that by being disciplined on pricing and so no I have not seen any dramatic changes there.
Next question comes from Brian White with Topeka.
Research Division</strong> Adam when you talked about some of the new systems in IT and data supporting video whatnot I assume you're talking more networking than servers? No to be honest I'm talking about it both because you're seeing now more and more converge systems Brian and so the -- where servers and storage and networking equipment were traditionally very very distinct pieces of equipment that's not always the case anymore.
And so I think that some of these next gen systems there will be more and more conversions.
We saw strength in the quarter in storage as well as in servers.
We didn't see as much strength in networking in the quarter but our ongoing design activities are really across all 3 of those areas and I think the fact is is video taxes all of them.
You got to process the video.
You got to store it somewhere and you got to route it around the world when people want to consume it.
And so what we have heard and seen with all of our customers across all those equipment verticals is that the nature of data and the volume of data that they need to be able to process in these systems is just mind boggling in many ways.
I mean the logarithmic growth in this video-based data traffic is incredible.
And we see that whether one is designing a new server a new storage system a router a switch you name it.
That is sort of the common story that we're hearing from all of our customers.
And we're very fortunate because we have been a leader in high-speed technology in the real core of these IT systems starting with the backplane system that came out of our acquisition with TCS and expanding throughout to I/O connectors to cable assemblies and beyond.
And our continued drive to create leadership in that market with next gen systems that push the limits of copper capabilities which is what customers truly want to have has really positioned us well.
We also see that power is an area of all these equipment.
Again whether that be storage servers or networking where our customers are struggling with how do they deliver to their end customers a new value proposition which is thus that operating cost will be lower and power consumption will be lower.
And so we've seen a lot more innovation around the power interconnect bus bars power management systems whereby if you can help them with -- drive further efficiency in that system that creates a lot of value for the customers and thereby allows us to capture business at good margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just on the mobile device market I want to be clear we'll see growth in tablets and ultrabooks sequentially in the June quarter but not in smartphones? Yes I think what we look forward to in the June quarter we think there can be moderate growth overall in the market and as has been the case for a number of quarters we see more of that growth being driven by what I term these mobile computing devices as opposed to just simple phones.
Next question comes from Mike Wood with Macquarie Capital.
This is Adam in for Mike.
Just a quick question.
Can you talk about some of the trends you're seeing in China post Chinese New Year since we've been kind of removed for a while at this point? Yes well I like your name Adam.
I think in China we have seen I'd say normal trends.
I think we are very happy to see that relative to our factories that the kind of typical disruption from a manufacturing standpoint that we saw we saw that last year we saw it probably the year before seems to have been a little bit more smooth this year.
And that's reflected also in our customers and so to that extent because our customers also didn't have these big kind of tumultuous labor turnovers that allowed our demand to be also I'd say more normal in the quarter.
Obviously February is low in China.
March tends be a comeback and that was no different relative to the overall Chinese economy and the overall demand in China.
Again we haven't seen anything really out of the ordinary or notable beyond the fact that it's still a market that grows at 2 or 3x the rate of most of the developed economies in the West and that creates a lot of opportunities for us in a variety of markets that we participate in there.
Next question comes from Sherri Scribner with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was just looking at your book-to-bill of I think it was 1.04 for the March quarter and that's typically a book-to-bill above 1 is a positive indicator but you guys typically see a book-to-bill above 1 decently above 1 in your March quarter.
How indicative do you think your book-to-bill is this year of strengthening trends for you as we move into next quarter and for the year? Sure I think as you pointed out it is normal for us to have a good book to bill in the first quarter.
And if you would go back over the last probably 4 or 5 years probably 50% of that time the book to bill is probably 1.03 to kind of 1.04 kind of range.
So I wouldn't say it's an abnormally high book-to-bill ratio but I would on the other hand say that it certainly is a strong orders.
I think the order level is up something like 9% on a year-over-year basis and so it is I think a positive sign.
That does confirm the sequential increase in sales that you see in our guidance in Q2.
So I wouldn't say -- again it's not an abnormally high book-to-bill but it certainly is a good one and I think that supports the Q2 guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just looking at your segments Adam I think most of your commentary was for seeing sequential improvements in all of the end markets with the exception of military.
Can you give us some sense of where you expect a bit more strength which segments do you see as being a bit stronger in the second quarter as we move through the year being above that sort of I think you guided to about 4% sequentially increase in revenue? So which segments are going to be above that corporate average? Sure well thank you very much Sherri.
I think maybe in order of where we would see the strength I think I mentioned that we expect in broadband for example to see somewhat substantially more than typical seasonality.
And that's something that we feel very good about given all the benefits that I talked about with the recent acquisition and the product expansion.
We expect industrial to have good performance sequentially.
Aerospace continues to look also like a market that would have good performance and the IT market actually we anticipate that market probably performing a little bit better than the average in the quarter sequentially.
Next question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
2 questions.
When considering the cable business your margins were up from the back half of 2012.
How much of that improvement is a function of market conditions relative to just the contribution from the M&amp;A? I think that there is some contribution from both I would say Shawn in those numbers.
There is some diversity relative to the product mix in the traditional business prior to the contribution of the acquisition.
And I think when you -- if you would look at the sequential improvement as an example between Q4 and Q1 where we did have a good improvement in margin that primarily was a stronger mix of sort of our traditional cable products.
If you would look in the back half I think there probably is more -- at the back half of 2012 probably a little bit more contribution from the acquisition which does have in general a higher ROS level than some of our other products.
Okay and then as a follow-up if I do my math correctly and assuming the midpoint of guidance for the year it implies you have to do something like $1.2 billion of revenues in the September and December quarters to reach the mid-point of the sales guidance.
I guess what would be the biggest drivers in the back half of the year for 2013? Last year it was definitely mobile devices.
Is that the same level of thinking and maybe the other end markets that would be up significantly too? I think that the communication market in general tend to be stronger in the second half of the year without getting into a discussion [ph].
Specifically we just wanting to nail down the trends for each quarter for the full year by market would probably not be something we'd like to get into.
But I think in general we would look to see a continuation of really what we're guiding to in Q2 which is a strengthening in most of the communications-related markets in the back half.
Next question comes from Mark Delaney with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could elaborate a little bit more on some of the recent trends that you've been seeing and maybe comment specifically on orders so far in the quarter and then if you're seeing any changes in customer behavior such as expedites or pull-ins.
Yes I mean I wouldn't tell you that there's anything of note.
We've given guidance here for the quarter and for the year and I think the orders in the quarter so far certainly would support that guidance.
And to the same -- by the same token I would say that behavior of customers in the month of April compared to the month of March there we haven't seen any notable changes.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful thank you.
And then as my follow-up question there's been a lot of change in the mobile device market whereas some of the smartphones are getting larger and some of the tablets have been getting even smaller.
Can you just talk about the opportunity from you from the changing mobile device ecosystem? Sure.
Look this is an ecosystem as you termed it that changes constantly.
And so we have seen more than a decade that we've been having significant business in this market that there's always change.
There's change in form factors.
There's change in functionality.
There's change in what functions are integrated into those systems and that is no different.
No doubt about it as you said there are certain phones getting bigger.
There are certain tablets getting smaller.
There are new tablets coming.
There are ultrabooks which starts to behave like tablets.
There are laptops start to behave like ultrabooks.
I mean you can get your head spinning when you start talking about the dynamics in that market which is why we look at it much more simple.
As we look at that market and how we have always approached that market is we will participate in a market where we can create value for our customers where there's value in the innovations that we make through our interconnect our antenna our mechanism products that we sell into that market whereby we help to make the customer's product better.
And if we can do that for the customer then ultimately they will pay us a reasonable price for the product and we can have good progress with that business.
That's what we have been able to do in particular on a lot of these new devices and as more new devices come out mobile computing devices to the extent that they need innovation and I think it's a sure bet that somebody is going to need that innovation then we will participate and have a good opportunity for growth in that market.
But what it will be in the next quarter and the coming quarters it is virtually impossible to predict with any degree of certainty very far down the road what that's going to be.
But at the end of the day I think one can rest assured that the innovation is going to be required by our customers whoever they may be at the time in order for them to sell the latest generation products to their customers and thereby be successful and that's really the measure for us in terms of how we participate in that market.
So obviously it's a very important market for the company one that is a very dynamic market and it's one where we have been extremely successful in the back of that very simple principle.
Our final question comes from Steven Fox with Cross Research.
Just 2 quick questions.
First of all you mentioned Adam that you're expecting to see some benefits from new electronics functionality on the military side.
Is that something that's going to occur this year or is this something that you're working on designs maybe for next year? And then secondly I was just curious if we can get an update on just any changes or advances in your manufacturing footprint going through this calendar year? Obviously you're well-positioned in China.
I don't know if there's other changes we should think of relative to India Mexico et cetera but it would be great to get an update there.
Sure well thank you very much Steve appreciate the questions.
I mean relative to new electronics in the military aerospace market this is something that has been ongoing and the fact is is without our participation in some of these new electronics even in the first quarter our performance would have been much worse than it was.
I mean the overall spending environment is clearly not a favorable environment.
And so it really is on our shoulders and on our organization around the world to continue to drive leading innovation.
We're very fortunate though because we have such a broad position and such a reputation as the technology leader in that market that customers come to us when they need to create those innovations.
And now the military equipment manufacturers they got to differentiate.
They cannot just live on a rising tide anymore rather they got to create this kind of more bang for the buck new technologies for their end customers whatever government that may be around the world.
And so we have seen tremendous participation in that the new radar systems for example in the U.S.
and Israel early warning and missile-defense radars things like that where new electronics have been incorporated and which allows us to offset what would otherwise be budgetary pressures in that market.
That is going to benefit for us in the first quarter.
We believe it will continue to be a benefit for us going forward long-term.
And when does that drive growth or not obviously there is an overall budgetary environment which we would fight against but that gives us a tremendous opportunity to have success regardless of the budget.
Relative to our manufacturing footprint we operate a lot of factories around the world because we have a very unique organizational structure and just to remind everyone that is a structure whereby we have individual operating units with general managers who truly run accountable businesses around the world.
Part of being accountable is being flexible and we pride ourselves on a constant degree of flexibility in how we make things and where we make things.
These aren't decisions that Diana and I are making here in Wallingford Connecticut.
These are decisions that get made on the ground in realtime depending on the needs of our customers and the requirements of the various dynamics of costs that are coming.
So to that end yes we continue to operate in China.
I think we have today 28 factories in China.
We have significant people in China.
But by the same token we continue to strengthen in Mexico in India in Eastern Europe and we continue to prospect for new locations to support customers around the world.
And so it is an ongoing very fluid manufacturing footprint for Amphenol as we seek to continue to have that very flexible approach.
At the same time I should just say relative to China yes the costs in China have gone up and yes the renminbi continues to appreciate but we also have a lot of customers and a lot of business in China.
China is a tremendous market for the company.
And so I cannot imagine very easily a scenario whereby one would move production say to Mexico to reexport back to China.
That's not something that probably would make a lot of sense.
At the same time though we are seeing some movement of production back to North America and predominately to Mexico where that makes sense for customers in this market.
So it continues to be very dynamic and we will continue to approach that with a degree of agility that we think is really typifying the Amphenol management style.
Thank you so much Steve.
And if there are no other questions we appreciate everybody's interest in the company and hope that you also have some of the first signs of spring that we are seeing here in Wallingford Connecticut.
Thank you all very much.
Bye-bye.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome you all to our second quarter call.
Q2 results were released this morning.
I'll provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the second quarter with sales of $1.136 billion and EPS of $0.95 meeting the high end of our guidance and achieving a new EPS record.
Sales were up 7% in both U.S.
dollars and local currencies compared to Q2 of 2012.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency effects sales in Q2 2013 were up 3% versus last year.
Sequentially sales were up 5% both in U.S.
dollars and organically from Q1.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components our Cable business which comprised 8% of our sales in the quarter was up 19% from last year as a result of a 2012 acquisition.
The Interconnect business which comprised 92% of our sales was up 6% from last year as a result of both increased demand and prior-year acquisitions.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income was $224 million in Q2.
Operating margin was 19.7% up from 19.4% last year and from 19.2% last quarter a very good conversion margin on incremental sales of over 24% from last year and over 30% from last quarter.
From a segment standpoint in the Cable segment margins were 13.8% and comparable to prior year levels.
In the Interconnect business margins were 22% up from 21.6% last year.
The year-over-year Interconnect operating margin improvement primarily reflects the positive impacts of higher volume and cost-reduction actions.
We're very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement of 19.7% and we continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control allows us to react in a fast and flexible manner thereby constantly adjusting the business to maximize profitability in what continues to be a very dynamic environment.
Through the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry-leading operating margins and remain fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
Interest expense for the quarter was $15.6 million compared to $15.1 million last year reflecting higher average debt levels from the company's stock buyback program.
Other income was $3 million up from $2.6 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income on higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
The company's effective tax rate was approximately 26.8% in the quarter the same as last year.
For the full year 2013 excluding the effect of onetime items we currently expect a tax rate of approximately 26.3% compared to a full year effective tax rate of 26.6% in the year 2012.
Net income in the quarter was approximately 14% of sales and earnings per share increased 10% to $0.95 from $0.86 last year a strong performance.
Orders for the quarter were $1.177 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio in Q2 of approximately 1.04:1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash.
Cash flow from operations was a strong $180 million in Q2 or approximately 117% of net income.
The company continues to target and achieve cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
The company had strong working capital performance in the quarter.
Inventory declined 1% from March and was down 5 days to 81 days at the end of June.
Accounts receivable was $906 million at the end of June and days sales outstanding declined 2 days to 71 days.
Accounts payable stood at $447 million at the end of June and from a day's perspective was also down 2 days from last quarter.
Cash flow from operations of $180 million along with option exercise proceeds of $41 million and borrowings under the company's revolving credit facility of $95 million were used primarily for net capital expenditures of $36 million in the quarter the purchase of 1.2 million shares of the company's stock for $96 million the acquisition of DC Electronics for $44 million dividend payments of $17 million and an increase in cash and cash investments of $121 million in the quarter.
At the end of June the company had approximately 7.5 million shares remaining under its stock repurchase program which expires in January of 2015.
At the end of June cash and short-term investments were $1.143 billion the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
And debt at the end of June was $1.783 billion leaving net debt at approximately $640 million at the end of the quarter.
Borrowings and availability under our revolving credit facility were $594 million and $406 million at the end of June respectively.
The company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remain very strong at 1.7x and 17x and EBITDA in the quarter was $273 million.
On July 1 the company amended and extended its revolving credit facility increasing the size of the facility to $1.5 billion extending the maturity date 2 years to July 2018 and lowering certain fees.
The company's current availability under the amended facility is approximately $906 million.
In addition in the end of the quarter the company's Board of Directors has approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on the company's common stock from $0.105 to $0.20 per share increasing the yield to about 1%.
The increase is effective for payments beginning in October.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent performance.
Before I turn the call over to Adam I'd like to make a few comments relative to the assumption included in our guidance.
The midpoint of our sales guidance has been revised down from $4.618 billion to $4.515 billion a reduction of approximately $100 million or 2%.
This reduction relates to a change in our expectation for demand in the wireless device market from a mid-single digit growth in our prior guidance to a decline of just under 10% in our current guidance.
This is partially offset by a contribution from the recent acquisition of about $20 million.
Our previous guidance anticipated for the mobile device market a significant increase in demand in the second half of 2013 relating both to new product introductions and higher production forecast for certain mobile computing platforms some of which were introduced to the market in late 2012.
Current customer forecasts indicate lower demand levels than previously expected in the second half of 2013 resulting in minimal lift in demand in the second half over first half levels.
In comparing demand to prior year levels we now see lower demand from new product launches as well as some impact of a further acceleration in the shift in mobile computing products towards WiFi-only enabled devices.
Our guidance also reflects a reduction in our 2013 full year effective tax rate from 26.8% to 26.3%.
This compares to a full year tax rate in 2012 of 26.6%.
We anticipate the rate reduction will be effective in the third quarter and therefore reflected the lower rate in our guidance.
The adjustment to sales and the adjustment to the tax rate result in a change in the midpoint for 2013 EPS guidance from $3.81 to $3.76 for 2013 a reduction of about 1.5%.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana and I'd like to add my welcome to all of you on the phone today.
As Diana mentioned I'm going to highlight some of our achievements in the second quarter and then discuss the trends and progress that we've had in our served markets.
Finally I'll make a few comments on our outlook for the third quarter and the full year and then we'll have time at the end for questions and answers.
With respect to the second quarter we achieved record earnings per share at the high end of our guidance with revenues increasing a strong 7% from prior year and 5% sequentially.
We're very pleased with these results especially given the significant market uncertainties that are still present in the global economy.
Diana mentioned orders reached $1 177 000 000 representing a book-to-bill of 1.04:1 and supporting our higher expected sales levels in the second half.
Profitability was also strong in the quarter as we generated higher than normal sequential conversion margins leading to a further expansion of our industry-leading operating margins to 19.7%.
I continue to be very proud of our agile entrepreneurial organization as we continue to capitalize on the many opportunities that are created by the electronics revolution and continue most importantly to demonstrate the discipline and drive necessary to drive strong operating performance for the company.
We're also very pleased that in the quarter we've made further progress in our acquisition program with the addition of DC Electronics at the end of June.
DC Electronics is a U.S.-based manufacturer of harsh-environment interconnect assemblies for the industrial market with annual sales of approximately $40 million.
This excellent acquisition builds upon our leading offering of high-technology interconnect products to the many diverse segments of the industrial market including in particular the heavy equipment medical and semiconductor test areas.
Very importantly this acquisition is also consistent with our long-standing strategy to find and acquire complementary companies with strong management leading technology and excellent market presence.
And as we welcome this outstanding new team to Amphenol we remain very confident and committed that our acquisition program will continue to create significant value for the company in the future.
Turning to the trends and progress in our served markets I just want to say first that our market diversity remains a significant asset for the company and the Amphenol management team continues to devote tremendous efforts towards our ongoing market customer application and product diversification.
Turning to the individual markets the military market represented 13% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market were down slightly from both prior year and prior quarter as growth in airframe communications and ordinance-related applications was offset by an overall reduced demand environment in other segments of the military market.
We continue to see significant conservatism in the purchasing behavior of defense equipment makers due largely to budgetary restrictions in many countries.
Nevertheless there continues to be a very high level of design activity targeted at creating new electronic functionalities in military equipment combined with continued growth opportunities in developing geographies.
We expect demand in the military market to remain at or slightly below these levels in the third quarter.
Nevertheless we believe our technology leadership and broad program participation positions us to benefit long-term from the expanding adoption of electronics in military hardware.
The commercial aviation market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased a very strong 23% from prior year and 4% sequentially on increased jet liner production as well as due to our expanded content on new airplane platforms.
We continue to expand our participation in these next-generation airliners which are requiring ever-higher technology solutions to enhance fuel efficiency drive better performance and improve overall passenger experience.
In fact we have a stronger position across this range of applications than ever before as our new interconnect technologies are resolving a wide variety of challenges that are faced by customers designing and building these next-generation platforms.
While we would normally expect a seasonal moderation of demand in the third quarter we actually expect sales to increase in the next quarter and we continue to have a very positive outlook for the commercial air market in 2013 and beyond.
The diversified industrial market represented 13% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased approximately 6% from prior year as growth in factory automation heavy equipment medical and rail mass transit was offset by reduced demand from customers in the energy-related segments.
Sales did increase 5% sequentially with growth in virtually all of our segments.
We believe that this second quarter moderation of demand in the energy-related products represents only a pause in activity.
And we continue to look forward to strong momentum in that important segment in which we have an expansive and truly leading position.
Overall we expect the industrial market to strengthen in the third quarter from these levels as we benefit from the new acquisition of DC Electronics and as we continue to make excellent progress broadening our technology offering while increasing our penetration of the many exciting growth areas of this industrial market.
The automotive market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in the automotive market increased a very strong 20% from prior year and 7% sequentially as we participated strongly in the increase in production volumes of vehicles which are incorporating a wide variety of new electronics while also realizing further benefits from our unique new design wins.
We're excited to see the results of our continued expansion into new high-technology automotive applications which has been really the result of our several acquisitions completed over the last 2 years together with our long-term efforts at internal product development.
We see automakers continuing to incorporate electronics into new and expanding areas of performance management fuel efficiency and passenger infotainment all of which serve to create excellent growth opportunities for Amphenol.
We expect sales in the automotive market to remain essentially at these levels in the third quarter as our continued progress on new platforms offsets what would otherwise be traditional summertime seasonality.
And we look forward to continued long-term progress in this very exciting market.
The mobile devices market represented 17% of our sales.
Sales increased 4% from prior year as lower sales of products incorporated into mobile computing devices was offset by slightly higher sales onto new smartphones and some ultrabooks.
Sales declined slightly from Q1 levels as overall customer demand did not reach the level that we had expected.
While our mobile device customers had previously anticipated a significant increase in demand in the second half of this year current customer forecasts indicate lower-than-expected demand levels and thus a minimal increase in our sales for the second half compared to the first half.
Diana has already mentioned several of the near-term dynamics that we're seeing in this market.
While these factors are certainly having a significant impact on our 2013 growth we continue to see good long-term future growth opportunities for Amphenol due to our very strong and diversified technology position in this important and no doubt extremely dynamic end market.
The mobile networks market represented 11% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in that market increased a very robust 12% from prior year and 9% sequentially primarily due to stronger sales of our broad array of interconnect and antenna products for sell-side installations.
We're very encouraged to have now realized 3 consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth in the mobile infrastructure market as operators in many geographies have increased their spending on LTE and other next-generation networks.
And more importantly our team has been very successful at expanding and upgrading our range of high-technology products for the mobile networks market with the result that we are now better positioned than ever before with a diverse set of wireless OEMs and operators around the globe.
Although we expect sales in the third quarter to moderate seasonally on a typical pause in build-out activities we expect the further ramp up of activities later in the year as operators continue to upgrade their networks and add more capacity.
And accordingly we now expect to achieve growth in this market for the full year 2013 something that we haven't seen for a couple of years.
The Information Technology and Data Communications market represented 20% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased 6% from prior year led by growth in our products incorporated into servers but with strength as well in storage-related products.
Sequentially our sales increased a greater-than-expected 15% as we gained further momentum with an array of our high-technology new products most notably our leading edge suite of high-speed products.
As our customers are continuing to strive for new levels of equipment performance in order to handle a dramatic expansion of data traffic our pipeline of new design opportunities with our next generation high-speed products continues to strengthen.
We are working intensively with many customers to help them design their new systems that can handle the big data revolution together with the tremendous expansion of video traffic that they are facing all while at the same time reducing power consumption of those devices.
We expect demand to remain at these higher levels in the third quarter and we continue to have a positive long-term outlook for the IT Datacom market.
The Broadband Communications market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a very strong 24% from prior year as we benefited further from last year's acquisition of Holland Electronics.
Sales increased 7% from the prior quarter on increased demand from both domestic and international cable operators.
We continue to be very encouraged to see the emerging benefits of our product and customer diversification which when combined with the Holland acquisition have enabled us to grow our range of broadband customers while offering a more complete interconnect product offering.
Despite some enhanced price competition that we're seeing in both [ph] cable we are seeing further opportunities to sell a more diversified portfolio of products to our cable television satellite and telco customers.
We expect a slight increase in sales in the third quarter and we look forward to continued positive momentum in the broadband market.
So in summary with respect to the second quarter I'm extremely proud of the Amphenol organization as we continue to execute well in what is no doubt a very challenging and dynamic market environment.
Our superior performance is a direct reflection of the company's distinct competitive advantages our leading technology our growing and broad position with customers across a diverse range of marketplaces our presence around the globe a lean and very flexible cost structure and most importantly an agile entrepreneurial management team who react quickly to whatever changes arise in the marketplace.
Now turning to our outlook as we've mentioned there continues to be significant market uncertainties in the global economy in particular within the mobile devices market which both Diana and I highlighted earlier.
Accordingly and based on constant exchange rates and normal seasonal patterns we now expect for the third quarter and for the full year 2013 the following results.
We expect sales in the range of $1 120 000 000 to $1 145 000 000 and $4 490 000 000 to $4 540 000 000 respectively.
And we expect earnings per share in the range of $0.95 to $0.98 and $3.73 to $3.79 respectively.
For the full year this outlook represents sales and earnings per share growth of 5% to 6% and 7% to 9% respectively.
While these expected full year sales levels are certainly lower than our prior guidance we are very pleased to have an outlook that reflects both a step-up in sales in the second half as well as a strong continuation of our industry-leading profitability.
We continue to see tremendous opportunities for Amphenol as a result of the ongoing revolution in electronics.
And I remain extremely confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities to grow our market's position and to expand our profitability and thereby to drive continued superior performance for Amphenol.
With that operator we'd be very happy to take any questions that there may be.
Our first question comes from Amit Daryanani from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question and a follow-up from me.
When I think about the reduction of the 2013 forecast it's about $120 million on an organic basis.
I just want to make sure it's all of the -- the entire $120 million softness is coming from the wireless devices segments or is it more broad based? And maybe we can just talk about organic trends excluding wireless devices.
Do you think that's gotten better over the last 90 days from your perspective or more of a steady state? Yes Amit thank you very much for the question.
Yes indeed that number that you quoted the $120 million organically is really all a credit to the wireless devices market.
We would normally see a very significant step-up in the second half and that's not what we see today based on all what Diana and I have said.
Relative to the organic trends in the other markets we don't see any dramatic changes in those organic trends I think I mentioned relative to each of the markets what we're seeing going forward and we feel that our position in all those markets is extremely strong.
And we see continued potential across all those markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then if I could maybe just follow-up in the devices market it sounds like your issues may be more tablet-centric when you talk about WiFi devices versus 3G and 4G devices I assume.
Is the issue more related to one customer or is it fairly broad based across the multiple customers you guys have there? And is there any program losses or anything that you walked away from that makes the back half guidance come lower? Well thank you very much for that question.
I mean let me just first reflect on our strategy which is a very consistent strategy in that market.
We have always said and I have always said that that is a market where we will participate when there's value.
And we continue to operate that same way.
We have very high-technology products and we operate in really the high-technology part of that marketplace.
So as we've seen the shifts which certainty are shifts that came a little bit faster than we expected towards these WiFi only devices those no doubt is more a tablet-related phenomenon where we have participated in a wide range of tablets.
It is not a single-customer phenomenon far from it.
But at the same time we don't participate necessarily in the low end of the market.
When you look at the dynamics in that market there has been more growth related to smaller form factor tablets white-box-related tablets these kind of no-name products where by virtue of the price that those products are sold naturally the content available in those products is less.
I think this dynamic also with WiFi and 3G is a dynamic that is related also to the fact that WiFi networks become more prevalent.
People are replacing their desktop computer sometimes with a tablet where they don't really need that 3G functionality.
That being said there is always a demand and will be continually a demand for products that have that functionality that we can offer with our high-technology products.
We see tremendous opportunities still for the future.
We believe we have good growth potential in that market for the future as we look forward to it.
It is a market that has always changed.
And we have seen always change in that market short life cycles new consumer preferences.
And what we are so proud of in that market is that we have an organization who is extremely nimble.
And you look at that you look at the margins that we have as a total company you look at the confirmation that we have of those margins going forward this is not a question where that change has a kind of a cataclysmic impact on the performance of Amphenol.
Rather our organization is out there hunting with all customers in the market where there is the value for us with our high-technology antenna products our interconnect products our mechanism products wherever they -- whatever they may be and we continue to see good opportunities there.
The fact is this is something that is happening this year.
It is what it is in many respects but we believe there is strong potential going forward in that marketplace.
And our next question comes from Wamsi Mohan from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Adam we've seen organic growth rates moderate across the industry.
Arguably you guys have done a better job than others but are we hitting some level of technology maturation such that the organic growth rates over the next 5 years are going to be significantly different maybe mid-single digit versus a double digit over the past decade? Wamsi thank you very much for the question.
Look let me just say this.
We continue to believe Amphenol has a strong strong position in this market.
And we continue to target growth far in excess of the market and we believe that we have done that and will continue to do that.
The global economy is continuing to be a very uncertain environment.
Do I believe that that is an environment that is going to perpetuate over the long term? Personally I don't but I am not an economist.
I'm not here to prognosticate about the next 5 years.
What I will tell you is that we continue to see a tremendous array of opportunities for electronics.
And to what extent does the overall economy drive spending patterns whether with operators with enterprises with governments whatever that is a different question.
But relative to the expansion of electronics in all of the markets that we serve we certainly do not believe that that kind of recent lower-growth macro environment is one that should continue or would necessarily continue.
We see a lot of opportunities Wamsi for that.
The fact is when you have all the uncertainties in the world today discussions about Europe discussions about America whatever I think that has impacted a lot of the buying patterns whether that is operators whether that is enterprises governments and whatnot.
But I believe that there is still tremendous pent-up demand.
I mean look only at the IT market where data rates are expanding so dramatically.
You hear numbers 50% 60% increase on the annual basis of the amount of data that is coursing through that network while meanwhile IT budgets are up 1% 2%.
And it's rare to find an IT hardware OEM that is growing.
And there are recent results that have confirmed that.
Well we are growing in that market.
And we're growing in that market because we have new technologies that are allowing our customers to continue to make more with less allow them to process more data through systems with the same cost allow them to reduce their operating expenses because of lower power consumption.
And I think so long as we can continue to have that focus which we have across the company on driving enabling technologies we will be able to drive superior growth for the company.
Research Division</strong> As a quick follow-up what percentage of revenues within mobile devices come from tablets versus ultrabooks? Yes I don't think we would give a specific percentage Wamsi.
I think that from a tablet perspective it's certainly an important part of the market as still are our phones.
And those would be bigger probably than the ultrabooks would be but that's probably about as much detail as we would like to give.
.
And our next question comes from Jim Suva with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> When we start thinking about -- you made a couple of changes here with -- you're now increasing your dividend and I think it's been about 1.5 years since you did that.
Your cash level is at all-time high cash level as you extended your line of credit.
Is Amphenol kind of thinking about potentially digesting some larger acquisitions? It seems like the acquisitions to date have been a little bit slower than normal but yet you're kind of increasing your dividend.
So I wondered if there's something to be inferred upon that signal as far as capital deployment or how should we think about capital deployment for Amphenol? Well Jim let me just say relative to the question on the acquisition program we continue to have a very very strong focus on this acquisition program.
We believe that there are opportunities and we -- whether those are large or small we don't confine ourselves to those.
I think to say that the acquisition program has slowed down I mean we had 5 acquisitions last year it's true.
Q1 we did not.
And we did announce a fine acquisition this quarter and we continue to have a very robust pipeline.
You should not read anything extra into that dividend increase except that we have always talked that we wanted to have our divided roughly at a 1% level and this brings it right up to that level.
And there's nothing more that should be read into that except that our traditional balanced approach to capital management and to return to shareholders is something that we continue to have a lot of conviction to.
It has no other read.
We continue to believe the company has a strong growth potential.
We continue to believe that there are excellent acquisitions to be had and we continue to approach that in a very balanced fashion.
Research Division</strong> Okay and as a quick follow-up regarding the size Adam and Diana of potential acquisitions.
Amphenol is a much larger company than say 5 years ago and your shareholders are very appreciative of that.
Does that mean that the acquisition sizes you need to open up your eyes a little bit bigger acquisitions or more frequent? Or traditionally it's kind of been 1/3 organic -- acquisition growth and 2/3 organic growth? I'm just wondering if any of that changes or how we should think of it.
Again I don't think Jim that this is a categorical change but obviously the mathematics of the fact that we are a $4.5 billion roughly company means that to add 1/3 of our growth which is still the number that we believe is an appropriate one for the company means you either have to buy more smaller deals or do bigger deals.
And I think I would expect over long-term that there will be some combination of that.
Last year with the 5 acquisitions that was a very substantial addition to Amphenol on an inorganic basis of 5 excellent companies in 5 unique markets and really not only supported our acquisition program but supported our technology development and supported our diversification initiatives in the company.
We continue to look at our acquisition program in that very same way.
We will be very aggressive in the hunt for acquisitions.
We will also be as we always have been very prudent in prices that we pay and in our kind of testing of are those companies that we want to acquire.
And ultimately the criteria that we have for acquisitions has not changed.
We look for companies with excellent technology with excellent people in whom we can really put confidence and which are complementary to the company.
And that really has nothing to do with size.
We will acquire small companies and we will acquire big companies.
And we continue to believe that the industry the interconnect industry and all the related areas to that create still tremendous opportunities of those companies to arise.
We have great relationships with many and many many companies around the world.
And as we drive and incubate that pipeline it will have good results for us in the future.
Obviously the timing is something that we have never been able to control and it's something that we will not be able to control.
But the fact that our company has positioned itself as really in this industry the acquirer of choice puts us in a very strong and competitive position when there is competition for acquisitions.
We may not pay ultimately the highest price but we are a very compelling home for companies when they're looking to have a significant change like a sale of the company.
.
And our next question comes from Matt Sheerin with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just another question Adam if I can on the wireless commentary.
I know that you've talked in the past about the opportunities in ultrabooks.
And is it your sense that that's kind of stalled here with the PC upgrade cycle and that's just being pushed out? And then as a follow-up on the WiFi commentary is your content in those devices because I guess the more commoditization of those components in those products? Is it just less and that's why that shift is hurting you? Sure thank you very much Matt for the question.
I mean we have not seen necessarily a big drop-off in the ultrabooks.
I think we continue to see new devices come out and new technologies being embedded in them.
So I wouldn't say that there's necessarily a huge change in that.
Relative to the WiFi content -- comment it's actually quite simple.
The comparison between a 3G or a multi-networked device and a WiFi-only device is very simply that you have fewer content in particular with the antennas and the various interconnect that are related to the antennas.
And so you go from potentially having upwards of 5 signal paths on a device that has 3G LTE multifrequency to a single signal path with the WiFi.
And that is just very simple.
It's not necessarily that it is just commoditized.
You can have high-technology WiFi antennas but you're going to have fewer of them.
And I think it's pretty straightforward how that evolution has happened.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And Diana just a quick question on the gross margin.
You had really strong gross margin in the quarter relative to the last few quarters.
Was that a combination of higher volumes and mix? And did you also see benefits from the declining raw materials like gold and copper? Sure.
I think we feel very good about the profitability we achieved in Q2 both at the gross margin and at the operating income margin level.
And I think that it's always hard to pinpoint Matt exactly each point that sort of adds up to the margin improvement we achieved.
Certainly higher volume and good operational execution are 2 very important factors.
But I would say that particularly in certain parts of the business where we do have higher metal use I would say that there probably is some impact coming from the fact that those commodities in particular are certainly at a better place than they were in the past.
By the same token we have certain parts of the business where plastics is more important particularly on the Cable part of the business where we actually didn't see margin improvements because there we've got some cost trends that are going in the other direction.
But on balance I think there -- we were able to achieve the strongest conversion margins we've seen in a number of quarters.
And I think that there was some impact that we do see there from the better cost environment.
And our next question comes from Amitabh Passi with UBC (sic) [UBS].
Research Division</strong> Amitabh from UBS.
Adam I just wanted to follow up on mobile devices.
You spoke quite a bit on tablets.
Just wondering can you just update us on the dynamics you're seeing in the smartphone market? Is that a market that has simply become too competitive for you guys? Just any update because we are hearing of new product introductions later this year and going into next.
Sure.
Thank you Amitabh for the question.
Mobile devices as we have said in the past we continue to have a strong mobile device business.
It has not been for us a contributor of the growth in the recent kind of year or 2 but it doesn't mean we still don't have a strong business in that market.
We participate in that market again consistent with our overall strategy on mobile devices in those areas where there is a value placed on the technology.
And I will tell you that we continue to see that.
And in fact as you mentioned there are devices which -- there are so many devices being released by companies that were not even necessarily thought of in the past as the big marquee players.
You are seeing a real range of smartphones being developed and some of those have in fact some new technology requirements in them whether they are thinner whether they are LTE whatever where there can be opportunities for us to participate and to realize the value that we have.
So I think that on that basis we will continue to devote resources to that market.
It's significant for us.
And we will continue to participate to the extent that there is real engineering technology value in t product.
And personally I think there will be still a great deal a great range of products where there is that premium put on technology.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just as a follow-up.
On the mobile infrastructure market you talked about the strength in North America.
Are there any other geographies that you're starting to see show some incremental life? We're also starting to hear some rumblings about a potential big build in China later this year.
We'd love to get your updated thoughts.
Sure.
No thank you very much.
Obviously I mentioned in my earlier remarks that we are very pleased in the wireless infrastructure market to see the third consecutive quarter of growth and actually this quarter double-digit growth that was both on a sequential as well as on a year-over-year basis.
I think that North America has clearly been a strength and you see that in some of the earnings that were just released this morning from some of the OEMs in that segment.
Relative to where strength is going to come from I believe that you can see in the later half of the year and particularly towards the end of the year towards the fourth quarter some potential for a buildout or an acceleration of a buildout in particular in China.
And again I am never going to bet on the timing of a Chinese wireless buildout.
The Chinese operators tend to be very shrewd about how they time that.
We should all not forget that Q1 2009 was a very opportune time to buy base station equipment and that was when they chose to build the first phase of the 3G network.
So I wouldn't say that you can kind of take it to the bank that they are going to have this big buildout in the later part of the year.
But on the contrary or by the same token we have heard from customers that there is a lot of talk and there is a lot of talk that some of these operators in China may indeed be preparing for that that there may be some significance to the build.
I think how that build is going to go who the equipment manufacturers are going to participate or what equipment manufacturers are going to participate at what allocation that all remains to be seen.
But what is clear is that we have positioned ourselves very well.
I think some of the growth that we have seen here in the recent couple of quarters this is clearly not market-based growth but rather it has been the result of efforts that we have been making over the last couple of years to both position ourselves on this new generation of base stations on the integrated equipment but also very importantly to position ourselves with operators on the full suite of interconnect and antenna products that we can offer.
And so to the extent that that spending cycle accelerates or continues in the later half of the year we would be hopeful to have a good participation in that.
And our next question comes from Mark Delaney with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Adam I was hoping you could help me understand a little bit better your outlook for flattish revenue growth sequentially in the third quarter with the fact that your orders increased by about 5% quarter-on-quarter and the book to bill was 1.04.
Sure.
Maybe I can just give you some information on the orders in Q2 and then Adam can comment on the markets if he'd like to do that.
I think that the business -- first thing is that our book to bill and bookings in the prior quarter isn't necessarily indicative of sales in the next quarter given the nature of how customers and markets place orders these days.
The vast majority of orders in the communications-related markets are more forecast-sharing type arrangements and hub-pulls [ph] and this type of thing.
But that being said I think that the order level that we achieved in the second quarter certainly was strong.
It was up about 5% I think on a sequential basis up about 12% on a year-over-year basis.
And for us to have a 1.04:1 book-to-bill ratio in Q2 certainly is stronger than what we would typically experience from a seasonality perspective.
A lot of those orders and that strength related to some of the non-communications-related markets that are performing quite well on a year-over-year basis markets like the automotive market the commercial air market.
In addition to that we saw some good demand for certain value-added products in some of the installation markets that tend to have longer lead times.
So those order levels really relate more to shipments that customers will be expecting in the fourth quarter and really do support the step-up that we see from a demand perspective when we look at our expectations for fourth quarter sales.
So there's no question that it is a positive that we saw such strong demand in the quarter.
We're glad to see those markets performing at a high-level from a bookings expectation.
And that gives us good confidence in the step-up in sales that we see in Q4.
But Q3 really from a sequential standpoint will have kind of those normal seasonal soft points in some of the markets like defense industrial automotive and so on.
And so we won't see that sequential uptick until we move into Q4.
I don't know Adam if you want to add anything to that.
Yes.
I mean the only other thing that I would add is that you should also look at that in the context that normally we would have in the second half and starting in the third quarter some step-up in the mobile devices market where there is not a relationship quarter-to-quarter in bookings.
It books when it ships and that doesn't necessarily have a book-to-bill relationship.
And so where we wouldn't normally expect some step-up related to that and we don't have that I think this positive book to bill as Diana mentioned is really a good reflection of those longer lead time segments that we have and it's very supportive of what is still a second half step-up in overall demand for the company from sort of low to mid-single digits based on our current guidance from first half to second half.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then Diana I understand you made some comments on the margin strength in the quarter.
When you look out for the rest of the year or longer term I mean do you think there's more room for your margins to move higher? Yes I think that the guidance at this point reflects year-over-year conversion margin that's very very close to our 25% goal.
And so I think that we -- during 2013 we expect to see a margin expansion.
We achieved margin expansion in 2012 so we still do see that potential to achieve the higher conversion margin in those quarters where we're seeing incremental sales growth.
So in Q3 I wouldn't necessarily expect to see margin expansion but Q4 would.
And our next question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Two questions.
Just first off on commodities being down so much.
Do you think you've realized kind of the full benefit of deflation or would you see more of a tailwind into the third and fourth quarters? And then second because I was listening on the call obviously the mobile devices are down but it seems as if I was listening correctly the infrastructure your IT Datacom maybe your auto and your aerospace forecast those from customers actually picked up for the second half relative to maybe your earlier expectations.
If you could just provide some clarification on that aspect too.
Sure.
I think on the first question from a margin perspective I think when there was a question earlier asked about the strong margin performance in Q2.
And I think we said that there are many things that certainly go into margin; both cost and price dynamics volume and so on.
But I think that we have probably seen some impact in our Q2 operating income performance from that better balance between cost and price.
I think it's always a little bit hard to predict exactly where all of those dynamics are going to go when you look out.
I think we've given good guidance on profitability.
I think the year-over-year conversion margin as I said is very close to our 25% goal and we'll achieve margin expansion.
And that's what we see as we look at things today.
What the ultimate impact will be from commodity trends really depends very much on where demand goes where pricing dynamics go and so on.
So I don't think at this point we will be comfortable talking about further margin expansion than we already have in the guidance that we've given.
But I think as we've said to these questions in this past you can be certainly sure that the management team will do their utmost to be able to keep and capture any such benefits that would present themselves as we look through the balance of that pricing and cost profile going forward.
Yes.
And I think Shawn relative to your second point about these markets do we feel incrementally more positive about a few of these markets? And you mentioned first aerospace and I would say that we do feel a little bit incrementally more positive about aerospace.
Normally we would expect the Commercial Air market to be down seasonally.
They tend to have shutdowns that tends to obviously have some European component to it.
And at this point we would see that there would be actually a slight uptick in sales in the third quarter in the commercial aviation market.
We're just doing a great job in that market.
I mean in the second quarter up 23%.
We feel that there has still strong double digit year-over-year growth in the third quarter and for the full year.
And it is obviously helped by the volumes.
And I think this last quarter if you look at the order backlog and the orders for the major players in that commercial aviation market they're booking orders at a tremendous rate right now.
But in addition to that we continue to gain presence on new platforms.
And as these new planes are being designed and developed it's no secret to anybody that there a lot of challenges that the airplane manufacturers are facing.
They're putting new materials into these planes.
They're trying to get new features embedded into these planes.
And a lot of the times they are really pushing the envelope in terms of embedding these new technologies into planes.
And we have had in some instances customers come to us on the basis of a schedule that normally should have been something was designed-in years ago and they come to us say "Hey we have that new challenge.
Is that something that you can help us with?" And so our engineering team is extremely busy still working with those companies as they seek to embed all these new technologies into the plane.
And I think that combined with the volumes is something that makes us feel incrementally more positive about the commercial aviation market.
You mentioned also wireless infrastructure and I think I spoke about that earlier.
I would say that yes we feel a little bit more incrementally positive on that market.
I commented already on the fact that we would hope to see some uptick especially later in the fourth quarter.
And then automotive market is another one where we just feel very good about the strength.
I think we will see some sort of seasonal flat to slightly down performance.
In other years you could have in the automotive market a seasonal decline in kind of the mid-single digits in the third quarter.
And we would be hopeful that maybe it would be a little bit less than that here because of our increasing position and because the volumes in that market are doing very well.
So I think those markets in particular we would feel a little bit incrementally more positive about.
And our next question comes from Mike Wood with Macquarie.
Can you talk about your visibility on the upcoming product introductions in mobile devices and smart computing and how this impacts that mix that you were talking about between lower end and the value-added products that Amphenol provides? Sure Mike.
Thanks very much for the question.
Obviously I'm not going to talk about specific programs.
We have very strong NDAs in place with all of our customers on that.
But what we have seen is there were certain new products -- and this was not confined to one customer I mean there were several customers -- where there were new product launches end of last year early this year which didn't really realize the volume potential that the customers had originally expected and that they had expected really throughout the year.
Relative to the new programs we certainly are participating in a lot of new programs.
I think if you look in particular at the tablet market there is a lot of growth in overall units in the tablet market.
But where that growth is tends to be in the smaller tablets and tends to be at the lower end of the market where you're talking about ASPs of $180 to $100 instead of $500 $600.
And as the overall products that are being released and driving growth have lower value to them there is sometimes an inherent value -- a value opportunity to us that is less.
And so at the same time we also are participating in high-technology releases that are happening during the course of the third and the fourth quarter.
But net-net in that market that change that we've talked about earlier in the call combined with the new programs that we are not necessarily having the volumes that we originally expected of them that results in the guidance that we have given here.
Okay.
And also on the factory automation strength you'd called out can you talk about any specific regions or pockets of strength there? A lot of the factory automation industrial companies haven't been reporting growth there.
Factory automation is an important part of our diversified industrial business.
I think where we've seen the strength is not necessarily confined to one or another region.
There is a lot of automation happening of course in China where you see labor costs going up and companies like us of course reacting by putting in place semi and full automation in certain cases.
But you see also automation being related to the auto industry.
And we have a tremendous array of products that go into very heavy-duty factory automation that's used in auto plant upgrades new model upgrades.
And we have certainly seen some strength there.
And then the general European which is really a German factory automation world we have also seen some strength in that area as well.
So I think it's a very broad -- I wouldn't draw a specific regional conclusion about it.
The only thing that I would say specific to Amphenol is that we continue to expand our product offering here.
And so I wouldn't necessarily say that we are a clear readthrough to the whole factory automation world.
We have a position that is a growing position where we are really expanding the range of technologies both interconnect components as well as value-add assemblies whereby we can have a stronger position in that market going forward.
And our last question comes from Steven Fox with Cross Research.
I'll keep it brief but just to summarize some of the puts and takes on the wireless market.
Can you talk about how much is related just to sort of how the product mix has shifted away from you versus end demand? Which is a greater factor? And is there anything Adam that you guys are doing in terms of changing your strategy into the marketplace to maybe capture more of the TAM? Or is it sort of you just have to find your right niches going forward? Well thank you very much Steve.
Look I think it's very clear that what has driven this change in our guidance as I've explained during the call is a real change in the nature of some of the products that we're working on whereby there is this kind of -- I would almost call it a onetime shift in the content opportunity on certain of those devices.
We think that that is not necessarily a shift that's going to continue and continue and continue.
It seems to be something that is a kind of a more than expected more dramatic than expected onetime shift there.
Relative to end demand as I mentioned the tablet market overall is growing.
The opportunity in certain of these products that has created that change in the demand.
Our strategy does not change.
We are not going to chase after low-margin products.
We're not going to chase after products where there's not the opportunity for us to inject technology.
We believe that there is still an outstanding opportunity going forward for us to find places in the market broad places in the market not just niches but broad places in the market where our technology can serve ultimately the purpose of helping our customers sell more of their products.
And when you can do that ultimately you can make the value that we want to make as a company and the margins and ultimately you can have growth in the business.
And we still have a strong conviction that that opportunity is still ahead of us.
Well if there's no further questions at this time once again we appreciate all of your interest in the company and your attention and I hope that you all have an excellent summer.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
My name is Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO.
And we'd like to welcome you all to our third quarter earnings call.
Q3 results were released this morning.
I'll provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the third quarter with sales of $1.153 billion and EPS of $0.98 before onetime items meeting the high end of the company's guidance and achieving new sales and EPS records.
Sales were up 5% in U.S.
dollars and 4% in local currencies compared to Q3 of 2012.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and foreign exchange impacts sales in Q3 2013 were equal to last year.
Sequentially sales were up 1% in U.S.
dollars and 1% organically from Q2 of 2013.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components.
Our Cable business which comprised 8% of our sales in the quarter was up 28% from last year primarily as a result of a 2012 acquisition.
The Interconnect business which comprised 92% of our sales was up about 3% from last year as a result of both increased demand and prior year acquisitions.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income excluding onetime items was $227 million in the quarter.
Operating margin excluding onetime items was 19.7% up 20 basis points from 19.5% in Q3 2012 a good conversion margin on incremental sales of approximately 23% from last year.
From a segment perspective in the cable market margins were 13.8% up from 12.4% last year primarily due to the positive impact of last year's acquisition.
In the Interconnect segment margins were 22% up from 21.7% last year.
The year-over-year Interconnect operating margin improvement primarily reflects the positive impacts of higher volume and cost reduction actions.
We're very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement and we continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control allows us to act in a fast and flexible manner thereby constantly adjusting the business to maximize profitability in what clearly continues to be a very dynamic environment.
Through the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry-leading operating margins and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
The company has recorded acquisition costs in the quarter of approximately $2.5 million $2.1 million on an after-tax basis or $0.01 per share.
The costs include professional fees and other external expenses relating primarily to the acquisition in October of Ionix disclosed in the press release.
Interest expense for the quarter was $16 million compared to $15.2 million last year reflecting higher average debt levels from the company's stock buyback program.
Other income was $3.6 million in the quarter up from $2.6 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income and higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
The company's effective tax rate excluding the impact of onetime items was approximately 25.5% in Q3 2013 compared to 26.8% in Q3 2012.
As is contemplated in our guidance the Q3 tax rate excluding the impact of onetime items reflects the year-to-date adjustment to bring the company's full year effective tax rate to approximately 26.3%.
On an as-reported basis the Q3 2013 effective tax rate was 23.9% and included the impact of a net benefit of $4 million or $0.02 per share relating primarily to the completion of prior year audits.
For the full year 2013 excluding the effect of onetime items we currently expect a tax rate of approximately 26.3% and this compares to a full year effective tax rate in 2012 of 26.6%.
Net income excluding onetime items was approximately 13.8% of sales and EPS excluding onetime items increased 9% to $0.98 in the quarter up from $0.90 last year a strong performance.
On an as-reported basis EPS was $0.99 in the third quarter and included a cost of $0.01 per share relating to the $2.5 million of acquisition-related transaction costs and the tax benefit of $0.02 per share I just described.
Orders for the quarter were $1.145 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 0.99:1.
The company had excellent cash flow in the quarter.
Cash flow from operations was a strong $197 million or approximately 122% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
The company had good working capital performance in the quarter.
Inventory was $733 million at the end of September.
Inventory days were 84 days up 1 day from our prior year-end levels.
Accounts receivable was $926 million at the end of September.
Days sales outstanding was 72 days and comparable to prior year-end levels.
Account payables stood at $481 million at the end of September and from a days perspective payable days were 55 days down 1 day from last year-end.
The strong operating cash flow along with proceeds from option exercises of $18 million and borrowings under the company's revolving credit facilities of $87 million were used to fund capital expenditures of $39 million in the quarter the purchase of 1.5 million shares of the company's stock for $116 million the payment of approximately $3 million in fees relating to the previously reported July amendment of the company's revolving credit facility dividend payments of $17 million and an increase in cash and cash investments of $141 million in the quarter.
At the end of September the company had 6 million shares remaining under its stock repurchase program which expires in January of 2015.
At September 30 cash and short-term investments were $1.284 billion the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
Debt at the end of the quarter was $1.87 billion bringing net debt to approximately $586 million at the end of the quarter.
Borrowings and availability under the company's $1.5 billion revolving credit facility were $683 million and $187 million respectively.
The company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remain very strong at 1.8 and 17x respectively and EBITDA in the quarter was approximately $278 million.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent quarter.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana and I'd like to extend my welcome to everybody on the phone today.
As Diana mentioned I'm going to highlight some of our achievements in the third quarter and in particular I'll discuss the trends and progress across our various served markets.
Then finally I'll make a few comments on our outlook for the fourth quarter as well as the full year 2013.
As Diana reviewed we achieved new records in sales and earnings per share in the third quarter growing from prior year by 5% and 9% respectively.
We are very pleased with these results most especially given the increasingly heightened levels of uncertainty across the global economy.
Our operating margins in the quarter remained very strong as we secured a continuation of our industry-leading operating margins at 19.7%.
These results just make me very proud of our agile and entrepreneurial Amphenol organization every management team member of which is capitalizing on the opportunities created by the electronics revolution and are really demonstrating the discipline and drive necessary to create strong operating performance for the company.
Acquisitions continue to be an integral component of our growth strategy.
In that regard we're very pleased to have added Ionix Aerospace Systems to the Amphenol family here in the first week of October.
Ionix is a U.K.- and Estonia-based manufacturer of harsh-environment interconnect assemblies for the commercial aerospace market with annual sales of approximately $35 million.
This excellent acquisition is a strong complement to our leading offering of high-technology interconnect products for the European aerospace market and in particular enhances our position on aircraft engine interconnect.
It's also very consistent with our longstanding strategy to acquire complementary companies with strong management leading technology and excellent market presence.
So as we welcome this outstanding new team to Amphenol we remain very confident that our strong pipeline of acquisitions will continue to create significant value for the company in the future.
The Amphenol management team continues to devote tremendous efforts towards our ongoing market customer and product diversification thereby ensuring that our market diversity remains a significant asset for the company.
This is particularly critical during these very uncertain economic times.
So now turning to those served markets.
The military market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter and sales were down 3% from prior year and 6% from prior quarter as growth in airframe rotary wing aircraft and ordnance applications was offset by overall reduced demand in other segments of the military market.
The conservatism that we've seen in the purchasing behavior of defense equipment makers has clearly not abated and indeed recent uncertainties surrounding the overall United States budget situation may create even more wariness on the part of customers.
Nevertheless there continues to be a high level of design activity targeted at creating new electronic functionalities in military equipment combined with further growth opportunities that we're seeing in developing geographies.
We expect demand in the military market to increase from these lower levels in the fourth quarter as we benefit from traditional seasonality as well as from the impact of some of these new military programs with higher electronic content.
However given the ongoing budget discussions in the U.S.
there clearly remains potential for renewed caution from customers in the near term.
The commercial aerospace market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased a very strong 27% from prior year and 2% sequentially as we continue to capitalize on a strong increase in production volumes of existing and next-generation commercial aircraft.
Our efforts at gaining a broad technology position on the next generation of airliners have paid strong dividends.
We've been able to expand our content on a wide array of new platforms several of which are beginning to enter mass production this year.
Accordingly we have a stronger position across this range of applications than ever before as our new interconnect technologies are resolving a wide variety of challenges faced by customers designing and building next-generation aircraft.
Looking towards the fourth quarter we expect a significant uptick in demand in the Commercial Air market as we benefit from the contributions from the Ionix acquisition together with increasing demand for our products incorporated into these new jetliners.
The industrial market represented 14% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased 9% from prior year primarily as a result of contributions from the DC Electronics acquisition.
Growth in factory automation medical heavy equipment and rail mass transit was offset by reduced demand from customers in the energy-related segments.
Sequentially our sales increased a strong 9% in the quarter.
As general economic uncertainty is impacting demand in the overall industrial market we do expect sales basically to remain at current levels for the fourth quarter.
Nevertheless we maintain a very positive outlook for this important market as our diversified range of leading-edge technology interconnect solutions continues to position us extremely well in a broad array of industrial segments.
The automotive market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter and we're very pleased that sales increased very strongly 25% from prior year and 2% sequentially driven in particular by our participation in a range of new electronics in vehicles.
We continue to realize the benefits of our dual strategic focus on both acquiring complementary companies in the automotive interconnect market while at the same time accelerating our internal new product developments.
In particular we're making excellent progress at expanding organically into new higher-reliability and higher-technology applications in the car.
This includes engine control braking electronics transmission and other new applications.
In the fourth quarter we expect sales to grow moderately from these already high levels.
As automakers continue to integrate electronics into new areas of performance management fuel efficiency and passenger infotainment we believe that we'll continue to have excellent long-term growth opportunities in the automotive market.
The mobile devices market represented 18% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased as we expected by 14% from prior year driven primarily by a reduction in sales of products used in tablets.
As we discussed last quarter this lower tablet-related demand was a result really of 3 factors: first a shift towards lower-content white box tablets; second a faster-than-expected shift towards WiFi-only devices; and finally lower unit sales than prior year on a range of higher-content new programs.
Sales in the quarter did actually increase by 8% from the second quarter which was a bit more than we had expected as we realized growth especially in products incorporated into new high-performance ultrabooks.
Looking forward we expect sales in the mobile device market to grow slightly in the fourth quarter as we benefit from increased demand for certain new programs being launched for the holiday season.
Despite the challenging performance this year we continue to have a positive long-term outlook for the ever-volatile mobile devices market as our leading portfolio of products continue to create significant value for a wide range of device makers.
The mobile networks market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales were slightly down from prior year and down 7% sequentially as strength in our sales of products into cell site installations was offset by a moderation in sales to equipment manufacturers.
While we believe the third quarter represented an expected seasonal pause in wireless equipment output we are encouraged by the widely reported intentions of many operators around the world to increase their spending on LTE and other next-generation networks.
When those network build-outs will be implemented however is always difficult to predict.
Nevertheless we are well positioned when such construction ultimately takes place.
For the fourth quarter we expect sales to remain at or slightly above these levels as the moderation of build-outs in certain Western regions is offset by increasing activity that we're seeing in China.
Our team continues to be very successful at expanding and upgrading our range of high-technology products for the mobile networks market with the result that we are better positioned than ever before with a diverse set of wireless OEMs and operators around the globe.
The Information Technology and Data Communications market represented 20% of our sales in the quarter and sales increased 7% from prior year and were up slightly from prior quarter.
While the sales increase from prior year was driven especially by strength in products related to storage and server applications we did also see growth in the important networking market.
We're very encouraged to have continued to outperform the overall IT market again in this quarter as our new design-ins of high-speed and power products in particular into next-generation Datacom systems have allowed us to grow despite what is an overall very muted IT spending environment.
As our customers continue to strive for new levels of equipment performance in order to handle a dramatic expansion of data traffic our pipeline of new design opportunities with next-generation products continues to strengthen.
We're working very intensively with many customers around the world to help them design new systems that can both manage the big data revolution as well as the tremendous expansion of video traffic that their end customers are experiencing all while reducing power consumption.
Although we expect a slight moderation in demand in the fourth quarter tied to recently curtailed demand expectations from certain IT customers we continue to have a very positive long-term outlook as we realize the benefits of our range of new products designed into next-generation equipment.
The broadband market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a very strong 24% from prior year as we were able to gain further leverage from last year's Holland acquisition.
Sequentially our sales in the broadband market decreased slightly on decreased North American MSO spending in particular on bulk cable.
While we expect a moderation of sales in the fourth quarter on traditional seasonality we are very encouraged to see the emerging benefits of our product and customer diversification.
These diversification efforts have enabled us to strengthen our future position by growing our range of broadband customers beyond traditional MSOs while at the same time offering a more complete interconnect product offering.
So to summarize the third quarter I can just say that I'm extremely proud of the Amphenol organization as we continue to execute well in what is no doubt a very challenging and extremely dynamic market environment.
Our superior performance is a clear reflection of the company's distinct competitive advantages: leading technology our increasing position with customers across a diverse range of end markets; a worldwide presence that continues to expand; a lean and very flexible cost structure; and most importantly an agile entrepreneurial management team who continually react quickly to all the changes that we see in the marketplace.
Turning to our outlook for the fourth quarter and the full year.
There continues to be a significant volatility in the global economy which is certainly not being helped by the widely reported political and fiscal issues in the U.S.
and other geographies.
With this in mind and based on constant exchange rates and normal seasonal patterns we now expect in the fourth quarter and full year 2013 the following results.
We expect sales in the range of $1 146 000 000 to $1 171 000 000 and $4 515 000 000 to $4 540 000 000 respectively.
And we expect earnings per share in the range of $0.96 to $0.99 and $3.76 to $3.79 respectively.
For the full year these results represent sales and EPS growth of 5% to 6% and 8% to 9% respectively.
Let me just finish by saying that we continue to see tremendous opportunities for our company as a result of the ongoing revolution in electronics and I remain very confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities both to grow our market position and expand our profitability and ultimately to thereby drive the continued superior performance for Amphenol.
Thank you very much and operator at this time we'd be very happy to take any questions that there might be.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Amit Daryanani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just maybe starting off on the defense side Adam.
I realize the uncertainties that you'd outlined.
But I'm curious given the debt ceiling and the budget resolution yesterday or today morning does that make you think that December quarter could end up being a bit better given your customers potentially have better visibility at least for the next 90 days? Yes.
Amit thank you so much for the question.
I wish the 90 days counted as visibility.
Let me just say -- I mean yes there was a resolution yesterday and certainly we're cognizant of that.
But this was really just a kicking of the can.
And I think that our customers in the defense market in particular there really is no clear direction about what's going to happen with sequestration.
There's no clear direction what's going to happen come January 15 or February 15 or whichever next deadline is going to appear and I wouldn't really say that there is a healthy optimism that anything will happen except more brinksmanship in the government.
But that's beyond the scope certainly of this discussion.
I think we have a very strong outlook given all of this.
We expect the sales in the military market to increase sequentially into the fourth quarter and as I've said that's largely because of in addition to normal seasonality the programs that we've been working on the new programs with customers.
And I think our mission is really not to guess where the government is going to go but to continue to drive the new technologies that our customers continue to have a tremendous tremendous requirement for.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And if I could just follow up on your capital allocation going forward.
I think Diana you talked about having close to $1.3 billion of cash and investments on hand today.
I'm just -- how much cash do you think you need to run on a steady-state basis? And I'm sure you guys want to keep doing acquisitions but should we start to think about 1 million to 1.5 million shares being bought back quarterly as more steady-state as you go forward? I guess I want to think about should we start thinking of share count reduction of 4 million 5 million a year as part of Amphenol's long-term capital allocation strategy? Sure.
As you point out we certainly have significant capacity both from a cash perspective from an availability perspective I think over $2 billion at the end of the quarter.
We also have tremendous ability to generate operating cash flow.
And I think historically we've used about half of that operating cash flow for the acquisition program and the other half has gone back to shareholders.
From a prioritization standpoint we continue to believe that the acquisition program is the best use of that capacity and I know sometimes that requires some patience relative to the use of cash on hand and that kind of thing just to make sure that one has the ability to execute when opportunities come to pass.
That being said I think over the last few years we've certainly had a pretty consistent flow and balance to the use of the cash and I think that we have fairly consistently been buying stock back for the last few years.
I think that we do believe balance is important and I think you'll continue to see us have a balanced approach in the future.
I think the only caveat to that would be the case where we did have an opportunity from an acquisition standpoint to deploy more of our resources towards that.
And I think for the right opportunity we would think that that would be the right thing to do for the company.
Our next question comes from Matt Sheerin with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Adam wanted to just ask a question regarding the mobility business.
Obviously you got some headwinds there both in terms of unit slowdown as -- and in addition to the connector content with the proliferation of WiFi-only devices.
As you look at that opportunity going into next year do you see that trend continuing? And how are you looking at that in terms of your market share within that business and trying to grow it now against some of those headwinds? Matt thank you very much for the question.
Obviously we spoke extensively last quarter about the mobile devices market and the various changes that we saw and I think we're very happy to see that in this quarter that market actually performed a little bit better than we had expected.
I think that our position and our share remains extremely strong in that market.
We have a tremendous position.
But as we discussed last quarter we did see the shift towards WiFi-only devices as one of the components of a change in our guidance.
And I think going forward that is really kind of a onetime shift because there is now a very high proportion of those devices which are essentially WiFi-only a very small proportion conversely which are being sold with 3G or LTE access.
And because of that we wouldn't expect that to be a continual drag.
All that being said it's a very dynamic market and we've never hid the fact that that is a market where constantly there is change.
And so we're not prepared today to give guidance in that market certainly for next year but we continue to have a very strong position.
We continue to see a lot of opportunities with customers who are designing and developing innovative new devices where our products can create value for them.
And once again I'll just remind everybody of our strategy there which is very clearly we participate in that market where we can create value for our customers and thereby earn the return for Amphenol.
We've been very successful doing that through many many cycles with many different leaders and many different types of products that have come out and we're confident for the future that that will still be the case.
Our next question comes from Amitabh Passi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Adam I was curious about your commentary with respect to the volatility in the environment.
I was just curious was much of this exasperated as the quarter went on.
And as we saw some of the shenanigans out of D.C.
would you say it was tepid across the environment  independent of what happened in D.C.? I'm just trying to get a sense of just sort of the macro environment in other geographies and whether it was relatively volatile throughout the quarter whether you saw some things that have accelerated towards the tail end.
I would definitely tell you that if we look at orders for the quarter and we did have a slightly negative book to bill which we -- would not be the case in most Q3s that clearly as the quarter went on the hesitancy in certain -- in customers in certain markets and in particular I would say industrial and military which tend to be more broadly impacted by things like government spending and budget certainly we saw increasing levels of conservatism and hesitancy on the part of those customers as the quarter went on.
How that will trend going into this month what will be the impact of the various news items that we read about today it's hard to say.
But clearly as that got closer there was certainly an increased level of wariness by customers.
Research Division</strong> And any additional insight just in terms of geographic trends Asia Pac Europe and North America? No.
I mean look this -- clearly in the month of September and October the big story in the world has been the U.S.
budget discussions.
There -- it doesn't mean that the rest of the world is kind of smooth sailing.
So I think -- but we haven't seen anything beyond that that's so different except for the kind of knock-on effects around the world in terms of people not being so confident if the world's largest economy can't pass the budget.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood with Macquarie.
A lot of positive content trends benefiting Amphenol.
But in terms of the mobile device segment with both smartphones and tablets if we do have this longer-term shift that typically occurs in these electronics towards lower-priced products how does Amphenol change its positioning? Or do you need to kind of accommodate that price erosion that occurs? Thanks very much for the question Mike.
Look I think we have seen many times over the course of our long-term participation in this market that there has been a cycle of maturation commoditization and innovation across the mobile devices market and I would not expect that to change.
The fact is if you go back 2 3 years ago -- say 3 years ago we never would have anticipated that there was even a thing called a tablet computer that would drive growth for us.
What will be the next device? What will be the next innovation that comes out of our customers? Very hard to predict.
Will we be positioned with those customers? That we have a lot of confidence in.
Will there be more innovations? That as well history has shown there are always innovations on the horizon that will come and no doubt about it we are working with customers on new devices around the world.
It's clear that our performance this quarter was certainly impacted by change in tablets.
When we look at the sequential growth that we had between the third quarter and the second quarter in fact a lot of that was driven by new higher-performance higher-functionality ultrabooks.
And so what will be the next thing? It's hard to predict.
But again we feel very comfortable and confident in our position to be there to enable that next-generation device to come when it does indeed come.
And in terms of the uncertainty on timing of the network build-out that you've mentioned with the WiFi what trends are you seeing from customers? How long of a lead time will you get from design work or early-stage order insight? Yes.
I mean in terms of the network I guess you're referring here to the mobile networks market and the kind of uncertainty around when that spending will come.
And we work both with operators and OEMs and they have different kinds of lead times.
Sometimes the OEMs will start to build in advance and we saw even a little bit of that for China 3G as OEMs start to build in anticipation really of awards that are coming.
But the reality is is the operators there's a lot of factors that drives ultimately when they put towers up and when they install equipment.
Even in North America -- I mean one thing that we have heard is one of the real bottlenecks in North America to install mobile networks is believe it or not availability of work crews qualified certified work crews to put up sufficient towers and that has actually constrained the build-out for certain operators here in North America.
I think early in the first half of the year there was a fair amount of strength coming out of North America with the LTE build from several of the large operators.
I think there will be a little bit more strength in Asia in the second half and maybe a little bit less from North America.
And I think that will balance out.
But by and large we feel that we have a great position in that market and just to reiterate that is a position that is both on the equipment as well as direct with the operators on the interconnect and antenna accessories that go onto the towers.
So to the extent that those build-outs happen in the traditionally unpredictable fashion that they do we'll be very well positioned to participate.
Our next question comes from Sherri Scribner with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask a little bit about the growth expectations.
Looking at your guidance it looks like at the midpoint you're expecting revenue to be up about 1% sequentially.
Usually you're up about 3% to 4%.
And just looking through the commentary I'm trying to understand is that slower growth? I know you commented on the different sort of volatility in the end markets but is that primarily related to mobile devices the way that you see it? I think the sequential increase in mobile devices this year both in Q3 and Q4 certainly is a lot less than what one would normally expect and less than what we've seen historically.
So I think that probably would be one of the biggest factors in that comparison.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just also thinking about your growth I think you said at the beginning of the call organic growth this year on a year-over-year basis was about flat.
I'm just curious what you think the market's growing at.
And do you think you're able to get back to sort of your more historical growth rates going forward? Yes.
I think -- what the market ends up growing we're one of the earliest to release our results here and we will certainly see.
But if we look back over the course of this year we have clearly outperformed the market going forward in this year and we have every expectation that our company continues to perform really at the leading edge of the interconnect market.
I think the overall economy and the overall market and if you look at -- as it's reflected with a lot of the customers that we work with there really has not been a tremendous amount of growth and there doesn't appear to be a tremendous amount of growth going here into the third quarter.
All that being said we do have one of our segments mobile devices which is down sort of an abnormal amount this quarter.
So we'll see ultimately where that works out.
But we still feel very comfortable and confident that we continue to have really a strong industry-leading growth position.
Where does it go long term? Sherri I mean we're not going to give guidance right now for next year but we continue to see tremendous growth opportunities for the company and for the industry.
The expansion and really proliferation of electronics across all the markets that we see continues to have tremendous tremendous potential.
It really depends obviously what is the overall macro environment.
We have been here for a couple of years in a real kind of a halting recovery if you will one which doesn't seem to gain real traction.
And I think if that can really turn around a little bit I believe that the opportunity for growth in the electronics in the interconnect industry and our opportunity within that industry has really a lot of potential going forward and for the long term.
And we're very committed to continuing to have that industry leadership that we have had for so many years.
Our next question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Firstly I don't mean to nitpick on this thing but you guys usually don't call out acquisition-related charges so maybe you could just tell me why this was a little bit abnormal.
Or is this something we should expect going forward? And then second I don't think this was covered and I apologize if it was but within the IT Datacom space I think Adam you cited just a weakness with customers.
And I wanted to know if that was more tied to whether it's market weakness product weakness company-specific or client-specific weakness.
Just kind of what's driving maybe what's a little bit of an abnormal weakness in that sector for the fourth quarter? Sure.
We actually have called out acquisition-related charges for the last few years.
So we had $2 million in the fourth quarter last year and I think $2 million in -- I forget which quarter it might have been the fourth quarter of the year before.
So I think as you probably recall the accounting rules changed and I'm going to get my years wrong here but I think maybe 3 4 years ago such that transaction-related expenses no longer went into goodwill or the basis of the company and they just are P&amp;L expense now.
So we did at that point start to break them out because they're not normal operating costs.
And from an operating management perspective these are not costs that relate to the current activity.
So we've been pretty consistent breaking them out for the last few years.
Shawn and relative to the IT Datacom commentary you're right.
I did talk about that we've seen some moderation especially later in the third quarter in terms of demand outlook.
And I tend to think that that has a lot to do with the overall macro economy.
I mean I think Diana mentioned that the industrial military and then also the IT market are markets that do tend to have some more tied industry[ph] relationship to overall economic uncertainty.
And what we've seen there is really not specific necessarily to one or another customer but more just an overall sense of a moderation and I think that there have been a couple of earnings releases over the last 24 hours which seem to certainly confirm that that is not a frothy environment.
And I think when we look at our performance looking backwards compared to last year it's extremely strong performance compared -- really on any comparable basis and we feel that we continue to make real incremental progress in this market.
And if I look back over the course of this year we have had just strong growth performance in the IT market I mean on a year-to-date basis really growing stronger than virtually anybody who has released their results in terms of OEMs.
And that really comes from what I said.
It is the drive of new products that are essentially enabling our customers to do battle in a very difficult environment where they got to sell on functionality and deal with data rates which are expanding dramatically but IT budgets which are essentially flat.
And if you can enable a customer to really offer the proverbial better mousetrap at the same price whether that is ability to process more data or ability to use less power that can be a very very compelling selling proposition to our customers and that's really why we believe our position continues to strengthen there.
Looking into the fourth quarter again I think there is just some degree of conservatism by customers in light of the more broad economic uncertainty that's there.
Our next question comes from Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> My question probably is good for both Adam on the strategy side and maybe Diana to help us understand the financials a little bit.
I find the acquisition today very interesting that you announced Ionix Systems.
It looks like from looking at their profile on the web that they do a lot of cables and harnesses and I didn't see much mention about connectors.
So maybe I just misread it or whatever.
But can you let us know is it truly more of a cable harness company and strategically that's something that Amphenol is looking at? I mean there's a lot of harness companies out there aerospace industrial automotive.
Are we looking at a bit of a shift to include that now in your profile? And then Diana on the financials side I'm not familiar with harness making in cables.
Is that similar to Amphenol's profitability margins and outflows and cost of goods sold or returns of capital and capital deployment? If you could just kind of walk us through the strategy and financials of that.
Yes.
Jim thank you very much for the question.
We're very pleased with this acquisition.
And let me just say that we actually make a lot of cable assemblies in Amphenol and we always have.
And we have made cable assembly acquisitions.
Even the one that we made earlier this year DC Electronics was a cable assembly -- high-performance harsh-environment cable assemblies for the industrial market.
Ionix is high-performance harsh-environment cable assemblies for the aerospace market and in particular they have a very strong position in aircraft engines but just tremendous performance capabilities in their assemblies.
And we have expectations of all the companies in Amphenol whether they make components or cable assemblies or whatever that they have the opportunity to make the margins that we make in the company and there's not something de facto which says that that can be a lower margin.
You referred to harnesses and there is a whole world that is called harnessing and -- the automotive harnessing world for example or the big aircraft harnessing.
These are the long kind of trunk harnesses and that is not what we are getting into here.
I mean traditionally -- the implication of your question is correct that harnessing tends to be a lower value-add and thus ultimately a high-material low-margin business.
That's not what we're getting into here.
We're getting into cable assemblies that are high performance harsh environment ruggedized.
They have a tremendous amount of content capability -- content opportunity for Amphenol products as well and it is really right up our alley in Amphenol of the strategy that we have been pursuing for a very long time to expand the breadth of product offering that we can support customers in that important commercial aerospace market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Diana financial views? I don't know that I would have a lot to add to what Adam just said.
I think as he said we have a large portion of our existing business which are various types of value-added product.
I mean from our perspective the profitability potential of a business has a lot more to do with the technology that one brings and the strength of the management team.
And I think this business has excellent technology.
It has a very committed and effective management team and we're very excited to have it as part of the company.
And we believe it has great potential and should perform the same as you see the rest of our company performing.
Our next question comes from Brian White with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Just on the mobile device segment heading into the December quarter what area do you expect to outperform? It doesn't sound like ultrabooks are doing that great.
So do we think smartphones or tablets are going to outperform? Look I mean actually what we saw in the third quarter was actually that our sales of products on the ultrabooks were really a strong driver of what was a higher-than-expected sequential growth into the third quarter.
What that will be going into the fourth quarter remains to be seen.
Again it is not the easiest market to predict but we still see continued strength in ultrabooks.
And I think the broad range of products that we have really we see on a sequential basis helping to drive what we don't expect to be an enormous uplift into the fourth quarter but we do expect to see some moderate degree of growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Wearable devices are you seeing any programs around wearable devices that Amphenol will participate? Gosh I remember we made our first connector on a smart watch about 11 years ago.
I remember wearing the first prototype of that.
I don't know.
I mean look we don't talk about specific devices with specific customers.
Obviously when something is super small the opportunity for content in such a thing would be less than something that is a bit bigger and has more functionality to it.
But certainty to the extent that there's interconnect and antennas involved and that does create value inside a wearable device I'm sure that that could be something that would be an opportunity for Amphenol.
But will that be a huge driver? I think too early to say what ultimately a wearable device looks like and what the architecture underlying that thing will be.
Our next question comes from Mark Delaney with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit on the margins the strong performance at 19.7% EBIT margin in the last couple of quarters which is the highest level since the first quarter of 2011.
And as you guys look forward do you expect drop-through to operating income to mirror historical rates? Or are there other things that might be impacting that potentially on the positive side such as commodity prices? Sure.
I think as a company we have a goal and we talk about conversion margins or how much incremental income does one get on incremental sales.
And the goal that the company has is to target 25% conversion margins which would imply that as a management team we continue to work to increase the overall profitability of the company.
As -- ROS at this point as you've pointed out stands at 19.7%.
I think that there are a lot of things that go into that.
Certainly participation in the high-technology end of the markets that we're involved in and very strong operations management and execution of the whole team are I would say 2 of the most important factors.
I think that certainly having a normal commodity environment or a balance between input costs and pricing dynamics is something that also is important in being able to achieve these high profitability levels.
I think that the higher the profitability of the business becomes obviously the harder it is to get those incremental ROS levels.
But this team has a great track record.
We've had a very strong performance this year.
I think we have good guidance going into the remainder of the year and we're still very confident in that 25% conversion margin goal.
Research Division</strong> For my follow-up I was hoping you could talk a little bit more on the cable business.
I know traditionally pricing has been very difficult there.
But now that you've expanded your portfolio with some of the acquisitions are you able to do things just selling an entire solution to maybe offset some of the traditional pricing pressure? Yes.
No this is a very nice question Mark.
I -- one would hope.
But let me tell you that ultimately customers when they buy cable they certainly push for a price for that cable and it really depends on the behavior of competition.
And I think we've talked about that this year we haven't seen the most disciplined behavior this year on the Cable Products.
I think the better benefit really comes as we broaden the range of these different products the variety of interconnect and value-add products that we have really been able to build out together with the acquisition that we made of Holland.
That gives us really higher value to those customers because we're creating higher-technology solutions for them.
We're helping them to solve a lot of real challenges that come in the cable the satellite and the telco area of TV and high-speed data delivery.
Because as LTE has come out that has created new problems interferences and other things.
As you get these new systems you create just a lot of complexity over the type -- the standards of the different data that is really flowing into the house.
And if you can help the customer solve those problems then they're very happy to come to you.
And ultimately there is -- I believe can be a benefit of that kitting.
But it's got to be really over time as the customers realize that the value is coming from those new high-technology interconnect products that we're presenting them with.
So I think long term there can be a benefit.
I can't say that short term we have seen real pricing benefit on the bulk cable but we have certainly seen an enhancement to our margins from the generation of these higher-value higher-margin interconnect components.
Our next question comes from James Kisner with Jefferies LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to talk about your acquisition strategy.
Just in general could you update us on how the pipeline of acquisition targets looks right now I guess even relative to 6 months to a year ago? And then separately just given the acquisition of Molex by Koch Industries is it possible that you could see incremental competition in your bids for new targets just given that there's deeper pockets there and that company has sort of the history of being acquisitive once they bought a company? Sure.
James thanks very much for the question.
I think relative to our pipeline we have a very strong pipeline.
It is a real part of the Amphenol operating culture and the regimen that we follow to really drive acquisitions and to drive that pipeline just as we drive the organic growth of the company.
And I think that results in us being able to uncover and incubate a lot of interesting companies that may not otherwise rise to the surface to our competition.
So we feel very good about the pipeline and whether it's incrementally good over the last 6 months I mean that's always hard to judge.
But it is a very strong pipeline.
Relative to the acquisition of Molex by Koch certainly we congratulate the family and the management team of Molex.
This is obviously a very nice resolution for all of them.
Does that make a new competitor in the market for acquisitions? Molex has been an acquisitive company before.
The management team was always very focused on this and I don't think that that necessarily creates big changes in our market.
If it did change their appetite we have been very successful over years when there were others who are out there making acquisitions without regard to price and we still made tremendous numbers of very very strong acquisitions.
And the beauty of the interconnect market is it is a constant wellspring of innovation just like technology is.
And with that wellspring of innovation it creates as well a wellspring of new companies that come about new companies that you never knew of before or existing companies who have now grown and reached new levels of performance that make them thereby attractive as an acquisition.
And I think that that just sort of spring of acquisitions that is there so to speak I think that has not shown any signs in my mind of abating.
And to the extent that there is with Molex a different appetite for acquisitions I think there's going to be plenty of nice companies for all of us to buy.
All that being said I would also just bring your attention to the fact that at Amphenol we have such a tremendous track record.
We have acquired more than 50 companies over the last decade and we have a very unique organizational structure a culture and a structure which is really having as its nucleus entrepreneurial general managers who run businesses.
Well if you're an entrepreneur seeking to sell your company and you want to choose ultimately who do you sell that to obviously you can just use the highest price.
But I can tell you that that's not always the only determinant.
And you want to also choose a company where you can join and where what you have built as an entrepreneur can really be perpetuated can be enhanced can be built upon.
And it's our organizational structure that creates that tremendous tremendous welcoming environment to these entrepreneurs.
And so I think that we -- even if it is a more competitive environment yes or no that may be we still will have a very very strong position as -- what I believe as the industry's acquirer of choice.
Next question is from William Stein with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I hope not to beat the M&amp;A horse but I do have another question about it.
The way I see the acquisition that you announced today it sounds highly consistent with prior deals both from a technology perspective and the sizing certainly not unusual.
But 2 questions about the M&amp;A pipeline.
Understanding the timing of deals is highly unpredictable I wonder if you can characterize whether there are any significant deals any outsized deals in the pipeline.
And also anything that would kind of take you away from your traditional technology envelope? And then I do have a follow-up if I can.
Sure.
I think that -- nice to hear your voice again Will first of all.
I'll tell you that timing is impossible to predict and we never do try to predict it.
We never forecast acquisitions and -- nor do we really comment about near-term acquisitions.
I'll just tell you that we have a good pipeline of a wide variety of companies and I'll kind of leave it at that.
Relative to traditional products and our expansion as a company into other segments I'll just tell you that for a long time we have always been sensitive to where technology is moving in our industry and have made acquisitions that at the time may be somewhat ancillary to our core products but really were one of -- one and the same as a total solution.
I remember a dozen years ago or more when we made our first acquisition into antennas.
And antennas at the time certainly had a different word for it than connector but we viewed an antenna as really an extension of the interconnect system.
And I think there are other things that are out there that we would view in addition positively as something where there is technology that is embedded in it where it's consistent with our approach to our customers and we would certainly not shy away from considering some of those things so long as they fit with our financial criteria and we really view them as part of that system that interconnect system and the relationship that we have with our customers from that technology standpoint.
But again we are always open-minded about this and we are very very good at executing upon that with our lean team here in the headquarters.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that helpful answer.
A follow-up if I can.
I wonder if you can characterize the results and the outlook in terms of geographic and channel strengths and weaknesses.
Yes.
I mean I think geographically not surprisingly when you have strong performance in automotive and Commercial Air Europe was not so bad for us.
I think Europe was a strong growing market for us.
Because Commercial Air tends to be either Europe or North America and automotive for us at least tends to be more of a European business.
I think that on a sequential basis we had strong -- we had some growth in mobile devices that tends to be more Asian-related.
So I think it's not surprising and I don't know that there's anything that's more of a regional macroeconomic trend as much as it is that the strength in the various end markets that we have tends to have some impact on those regions.
In terms of the guidance I wouldn't say anything really different from that.
I think it would be largely consistent with our market guidance that I've given.
Our final question today comes from Steven Fox with Cross Research.
So Adam I guess the first question should be whether you have that smart watch still but I'll skip that one.
So just 2 real quick questions.
Just first of all on the guidance Diana it seems like you're assuming less-than-typical conversion margins.
I don't know if there's any cost pressures that need to be called out for Q4 we should think about.
And then secondly just looking at where your net-debt-to-cap is right now.
I mean 27% is relatively low for the company.
I think prerecession you were in the 30s which is pretty significant sort of lower capital structure.
Is there anything -- I know you don't like to provide targets around that but is there anything that will prevent you from sort of heading back up towards the mid-30s if you saw the right opportunity for shareholders? Let me just answer the last question first.
I mean no I think that the capacity of the company from a leverage perspective certainly is very much a function of the company's ability to generate very strong operating cash flow.
And so certainly for the right opportunity one could adjust the structure and this would be not any sort of an issue whatsoever from an operational perspective.
I think the one caveat we would put around that I think that the investment-grade rating is something that the company feels is important but even that being said there's a lot of capacity within that rating.
So I think for the right opportunity as you said certainly that is something we would consider.
From a profitability perspective I guess as far as we look at the fourth quarter the conversion margins that we would see in the fourth quarter are about consistent with what they've been so far this year kind of in that 23% kind of range.
So I think that we would look on an annual basis to close at about 23% year-over-year conversion margins which we feel is good performance against our 25% goal.
If you're looking maybe at a -- from a net earnings perspective the tax rate in Q4 is slightly higher than in Q3 so I don't know if that maybe somehow impacted the math.
But I think from an ROS perspective the guidance is very consistent with how we have historically performed.
Well thank you very much Steve.
And I noticed on my analog windup watch here that we have really reached the top of the hour.
And I'd like to extend my appreciation to all of you for joining our call this quarter and wish you all a successful completion to 2013.
And we certainly look forward to speaking to you all next year when we talk about the fourth quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Hello and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
My name's Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome everyone to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Q4 results were released this morning.
I'll provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the fourth quarter with sales of $1.246 billion and EPS of $1.05 before onetime items exceeding the high end of our guidance and achieving new sales and EPS records.
Sales were up 9% in U.S.
dollars and 8% in local currencies compared to Q4 of 2012.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisition and foreign exchange impacts sales were up 5%.
Sequentially sales were up 8% in U.S.
dollars and 6% organically.
Compared to the high end of our prior guidance sales were up about 6% in Q4 due primarily to strong demand in the mobile device market.
Breaking down sales into our 2 major components.
Our Cable business which comprised 7% of our sales in the quarter was down 5% from last year.
The Interconnect business which comprised 93% of our sales was up 10% from last year as a result of both increased demand and acquisitions.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
For the full year 2013 sales were $4.615 billion up 8% in U.S.
dollars and 4% organically over 2012 a strong performance.
Operating income excluding onetime items was $245 million in the quarter compared to prior year operating income of $223 million.
Operating margin excluding onetime items was 19.7% in Q4 up 20 basis points from 19.5% last year a good conversion margin on incremental sales of approximately 22% from last year.
From a segment standpoint in the Cable business margins were 12.2% down from 13.2% last year primarily due to lower volume the impact of market pricing and some impact from product mix.
The Interconnect business margins were 21.8% up from 21.7% last year.
The year-over-year Interconnect operating margin improvement primarily reflects the positive impacts of higher volume and cost reduction actions.
For the full year 2013 the company achieved operating income margins excluding onetime items of 19.6% up 30 basis points from 2012 achieving year-over-year conversion margins on incremental sales of approximately 23%.
We're very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement in 2013 and we continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control allows us to react in a fast and flexible manner thereby constantly adjusting the business to maximize profitability in what certainly continues to be a dynamic environment.
Through the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry-leading operating margins and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
The company has recorded acquisition costs in the quarter of approximately $3.4 million $2.4 million after-tax or $0.01 a share.
These costs include professional fees transaction taxes and other expenses relating primarily to the acquisitions in December disclosed in the press release.
In accordance with current accounting rules these costs are expensed as incurred.
Interest expense for the quarter was $16.4 million compared to 16 point -- compared to $15.6 million excuse me last year primarily due to higher average debt levels from the company's acquisition and stock buyback programs.
Other income was $3.9 million in the quarter up from $2.7 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income on higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
Our effective tax rate excluding onetime items was 26.3% in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to 26.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the full year excluding the impact of onetime items the rates were approximately 26.3% and 26.6% in the full year 2013 and 2012 respectively.
On an as-reported basis the company's effective tax rate was 26.2% in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 24.6% for the full year 2013 compared to 32% and 28.2% for the respective 2012 periods.
The full year 2013 rate included the impact of a net income tax benefit of $4 million or $0.02 per share relating primarily to the completion of prior year audits.
In addition the full year 2013 rate included an income tax benefit of approximately $11 million or $0.07 per share resulting from the reinstatement on January 2 2013 of certain federal income tax provisions relating primarily to research and development credits and certain U.S.
taxes on foreign income with retroactive effect to 2012.
The reinstatement of these provisions was delayed by the U.S.
government in 2012 and as such in the fourth quarter of 2012 there were related income tax costs of approximately $11 million or $0.07 per share.
Between the 2 quarters Q4 2012 and Q1 2013 there was no net impact on the company from an income statement perspective.
Net income excluding onetime items was about 13.7% of sales in the fourth quarter and 13.5% of sales for the full year 2013 compared to 13.4% in Q4 of last year and 13.2% for the full year 2012.
EPS excluding onetime items increased 12% to $1.05 in the quarter up from $0.94 last year.
EPS for the full year 2013 was $3.85 up 11% over 2012 a very strong performance.
On an as-reported basis earnings per share was $1.04 and $0.86 in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2012 respectively and included certain onetime items.
The 2013 item -- 2013 earnings includes the cost of $0.01 per share relating to the acquisition costs I previously described.
The 2012 period includes onetime charges of $0.08 per share $0.01 relating to prior year acquisition costs and $0.07 relating to the tax items I just talked about.
Orders for the quarter were $1.237 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 0.99:1 for the quarter.
For the full year 2013 orders were $4.679 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.01:1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash and cash flow and the fourth quarter was quite strong at $211 million or 125% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
For the year cash flow from operations was $769 million or 120% of net income very strong.
The company had good working capital performance in the quarter.
Inventory was $793 million at the end of the year.
Compared to September inventory was up 8% on an as-reported basis and up about 2% excluding the impact of acquisitions.
Inventory days were 80 days at year end down 3 days from prior year levels.
Accounts receivable was just over $1 billion at the end of December.
Compared to September it was up 8% on an as-reported basis and up approximately 3% excluding the impact of acquisitions.
Days sales outstanding was 70 days down 2 days from prior year-end levels.
And accounts payable was $550 million at the end of the year.
Compared to September up 14% on an as-reported basis and up 8% excluding the impact of acquisitions.
From a days perspective it was comparable to prior year-end levels.
A strong cash flow from operations of $211 million along with $91 million of cash $18 million of stock option proceeds and $258 million of borrowings under the company's credit facilities were used to fund $441 million of acquisition payments $53 million in net capital expenditures the purchase of 329 000 shares of the company's stock for $28 million and $63 million of dividend payments.
At the end of the quarter we had 5.7 million shares remaining under the 10 million share buyback program which expires in January of 2015.
Our cash and short-term investments balance stood at $1.192 billion the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
Total debt at the end of December was $2.1 billion and net debt was approximately $941 million.
At the end of the quarter borrowings and availability under the company's $1.5 billion revolving credit facility were $927 million and $573 million respectively.
And the company's leverage and interest coverage ratios remain strong at 1.9x and 18x.
The fourth quarter EBITDA was approximately $293 million bringing full year EBITDA to $1.1 billion or 24% of sales.
From a financial performance this was an excellent quarter.
Before I turn the call over to Adam I wanted to make a few comments relative to our 2014 sales and earnings per share guidance.
The guidance is based on current foreign exchange rates and includes the acquisitions closed in December.
From a tax rate perspective there is currently some uncertainties surrounding the direction of U.S.
tax policy.
However assuming a continuation of the policies in effect in 2013 the guidance includes an effective tax rate of 26.5%.
From a sales perspective guidance for the full year 2014 of $5 billion to $5.1 billion represents a growth of 8% to 11% over 2013 on a U.S.
dollar basis and a growth of approximately 1% to 4% on an organic basis excluding the impact of acquisitions.
Guidance for the first quarter of 2014 of $1.18 billion to $1.21 billion represents a growth of 9% to 12% on a U.S.
dollar basis and a growth of approximately 1% to 4% on an organic basis.
Sequentially in Q1 we expect a decline of 3% to 5% on a U.S.
dollar basis and a decline of 8% to 10% from an organic perspective driven primarily by a larger-than-normal sequential decline in the mobile device market after a very strong fourth quarter of 2013.
Adam will comment further on growth expectations by market in just a moment.
Our guidance excludes any onetime expenses.
At this point we do anticipate approximately $2 million in onetime acquisition-related charges in Q1 2014 relating to the valuation of acquired backlog for the Advanced Sensors Business as is required under U.S.
GAAP.
While the December acquisitions are accretive on an earnings-per-share basis from an operating income margin standpoint the Advanced Sensors Business currently operates at a lower level of profitability than the average of the company.
And as a result operating income margin for the first quarter is impacted by about 0.5% and is expected on a consolidated basis to be about 18.8% in the quarter.
Operating income margin for the full year 2014 is expected to be at about the same rate as 2013 at 19.6% with ROS expansion in the base business offset by the lower ROS levels relating to the Advanced Sensors Business.
We're very excited about the potential of the Advanced Sensors acquisition and expect their operating income margins to improve over time based on the combination of their excellent management team their leading technology and Amphenol's strong operating policies.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Thank you very much Diana and I'd like to add my welcome to all of you here on the call today and thank you very much for your time.
And I also hope that it's not too late to wish all of you a Happy New Year.
As Diana mentioned I'm going to highlight some of our achievements in the fourth quarter as well as in the full year for 2013.
I'll specifically discuss some of the trends and progress across our served end markets and then finally I'll make a few comments on the outlook for the first quarter and the full year for 2014 and then certainly leave time at the end for questions.
We're very pleased in the fourth quarter to report that the company achieved record results as we reached new highs in orders sales and earnings exceeding the high end of our guidance.
As Diana mentioned revenues increased a strong 9% from prior year and 8% sequentially reaching a new record $1 246 000 000 in sales.
And we also booked a record $1 237 000 000 in orders which represent a book-to-bill of 0.99:1.
We're very proud that the company continues to generate strong profitability with our margins expanding by 20 basis points from prior year to 19.7%.
This quarter once again we're extremely proud of our team.
Our results this quarter confirm the true value of the discipline and agility of the Amphenol entrepreneurial organization through continuing to capitalize on the many available opportunities for growth while also driving superior operating performance.
We're particularly pleased to report strong progress in our acquisition program in the fourth quarter.
Our ability to identify and execute upon acquisitions remain the core competitive advantage of the Amphenol organization.
As I've always said the timing of acquisitions is impossible to predict yet our ability to execute on all these transactions in such a short time period is yet another confirmation of the agility and capability of our lean organization.
First we're very pleased to have completed the previously announced acquisition of the Advanced Sensors Business of GE.
Advanced Sensors as we call it is a global manufacturer of sensors and sensor-based instruments primarily for the industrial and automotive market with annual sales of approximately $225 million.
We are extremely excited by the potential created by the addition of the Advanced Sensors Business to Amphenol.
The company is a leading provider of a wide array of sensor technologies and creates the opportunities to offer customers end-to-end technology solutions which incorporate both our leading interconnect solutions together with sensor products.
The proliferation of electronics across many of our end markets is creating further demands for these high-technology sensor and interconnect solutions.
With the addition of the Advanced Sensors capabilities we're going to be very strongly positioned to expand our participation with customers globally.
The sensors market is a roughly $50 billion market essentially the same size as the global interconnect market thereby creating an excellent long-term growth opportunity for Amphenol.
In addition in the quarter we acquired Tecvox LLC a U.S.-based provider of value-added components and assemblies to the automotive infotainment market with annual sales of approximately $45 million.
Tecvox has an excellent offering of complex datacom interconnect products which are increasingly being adopted in infotainment systems for cars.
In addition the company has supplier relationships with many important vehicle manufacturers around the world.
We're very hopeful and confident that this acquisition strengthens our position in what is a very high growth segment within the automotive electronics market and it will serve as a tremendous complement to our fast-growing automotive interconnect business.
Finally in the quarter we acquired Hangzhou Jet Interconnect Technology a China-based manufacturer and supplier to Amphenol of high-precision interconnect components.
Jet is a real manufacturing leader in high-technology fine-pitch connector component manufacturing and strengthens our ability to quickly launch new high-tech interconnect products at a lower cost in particular for next-generation high-speed products used in the very dynamic IT-Datacom market.
All of these acquisitions that we announced today are consistent with our ongoing and successful strategy to acquire complementary companies with strong management leading technology and excellent market presence.
And as we welcome these outstanding new teams to Amphenol we remain very confident that our successful acquisition program will continue to create value for Amphenol in the future.
Before turning to our served markets I'd just like to reflect briefly on 2013 in its totality.
2013 was clearly an excellent year for the company.
We established new records in sales and earnings per share.
We achieved revenues of $4 614 000 000 and EPS of $3.85 with leading operating margins of 19.6%.
We're especially pleased that we have continued to expand our position in the overall market growing our sales by approximately 8% in 2013 well above industry growth rates.
And in 2013 we again successfully executed upon our acquisition program adding in total 5 exciting new family members to Amphenol in the automotive industrial Commercial Air and IT-Datacom markets thereby creating excellent platforms for future expansion.
I'd like to note that now in the last 2 years we have acquired 10 companies.
Throughout 2013 it's been our consistent focus on technology innovation and customer support through all phases of the economic cycle which have resulted in Amphenol strengthening our position across each of our end markets.
In addition our organization has accelerated the development of innovative interconnect technologies in support of our clear long-term mission which is to be the enabler of the electronics revolution.
These developments have allowed Amphenol to capitalize on exciting new areas of the ever-expanding electronics market thereby broadening the opportunity for our future growth.
So as we close 2013 we find it extremely rewarding that our organization has built yet another new platform of strength thereby creating optimism and confidence for our future performance.
Now turning to our served markets.
I'd just like to note that there continues to be uncertainty across many of the end markets in the electronics industry.
And this confirms again for our team that diversification that we worked so hard at achieving is a significant asset for the company.
Turning first to the military market.
Sales in the military market represented 11% of our total in the fourth quarter and sales decreased slightly from prior year as growth in rotary-wing aircraft ordnance and airframe applications was offset by lower sales of products used in military vehicles and communication-related applications.
We were very pleased to realize the sequential revenue increase in the military market in the fourth quarter as our sales grew by 5% from the third quarter driven especially by strengthening demand in avionics and ordnance.
For the full year of 2013 sales declined slightly essentially by about 2%.
While recent U.S.
government actions may have provided some clarity around sequestration there remains great uncertainty surrounding overall military spending levels in 2014 and beyond.
Nevertheless we're very confident that the increasing electronic content in military equipment together with our broad program participation and our strong position in high-growth emerging markets will drive growth in the future.
Accordingly in the first quarter we expect sales to remain essentially at these levels and for 2014 we do expect a moderate increase in sales in the military market as our new technology developments drive growth despite the overall muted spending environment.
The Commercial Aerospace market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a very strong 30% from prior year as we continued to capitalize on increased demand resulting from higher levels of jet liner production as well as from the launch of new airplane platforms altogether with the benefits from our Ionix acquisition that we announced last quarter.
Sequentially our sales in this market grew by 14% finishing the year with strong momentum in this very exciting market.
For the full year of 2013 again we had very strong sales growth rising by 24% from 2012.
We're extremely pleased with our continued progress in the Commercial Air market as we have taken full advantage of the proliferation of new electronics on next-generation jetliners which we are enabling with our high-technology interconnect products.
Looking forward we expect sales to increase sequentially in the first quarter and we continue to have a strong outlook for the Commercial Air market in 2014 and beyond as production volumes continue to ramp up and new platforms launch.
The industrial market represented 14% of our sales in the quarter and sales in this market grew also by a very strong 21% driven in particular by growth in instrumentation rail mass transit heavy equipment and medical segments together with the contribution from our acquisitions completed throughout the year.
Sequentially our sales in the industrial market increased by 4% and for the full year of 2013 sales grew by 7%.
We continue to make excellent progress broadening our technology offering and increasing our penetration of the many exciting growth segments of the industrial market.
These include in particular alternative energy oil and gas heavy equipment factory automation and medical markets.
In addition we are in particular especially excited by the tremendous opportunities created by the Advanced Sensors acquisition in the industrial market as there are truly a rich array of applications which require advanced solutions that are incorporating both sensors and interconnect products.
We expect strong growth in the industrial market in the first quarter and for the full year of 2014 as we benefit from the addition of Advanced Sensors together with our expanding range of new interconnect technologies across a very diverse range of industrial segments.
The automotive market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased a very strong 40% from prior year and 10% sequentially.
This significant year-over-year growth was driven by our new technology programs as well as by the impact of higher vehicle volumes together with some degree of benefit from the acquisitions completed just here at the end of the fourth quarter.
For the full year we're very pleased to have achieved excellent growth of 23% resulting in the automotive market now representing 12% of total Amphenol for the full year of 2013.
We're very excited by the continued expansion of our high-technology product offering and look forward to opportunities to leverage our expanded interconnect and our new sensor technologies to gain a broader participation in the rapidly-expanding market for automotive electronics.
Our product offering now extends to many exciting areas of the automotive market from hybrid and electric drives to safety and security telematics and infotainment exhaust management and engine control and electronic transmission and breaking.
Looking ahead we expect a strong increase in sales in the first quarter and for the full year 2014 as we realize the benefits from our exciting acquisitions together with our organically-developed new products.
The mobile devices market represented 22% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales were down slightly from prior year and increased a much stronger-than-expected 31% sequentially as our organization was able to quickly react to unexpected increases in demand for certain mobile computing devices.
For the full year sales were up slightly which represented better performance than we'd anticipated coming into the second half of 2013.
We're very confident that our highly reactive and agile organization will continue to secure a strong position in the ever-dynamic mobile device market and continue to be encouraged by our excellent technology position across a wide range of new mobile computing platforms.
Looking forward we expect again this year a more significant-than-normal seasonal reduction of demand in the first quarter driven especially by reduced volumes for mobile computing devices.
And while our current expectations are for some moderation of sales levels in 2014 the mobile device market remains a highly volatile demand environment but one with significant opportunities for Amphenol.
The mobile networks market represented 9% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales were down slightly on both a year-over-year and sequential basis as higher spending in Asia was offset by reduced investments by operators in other geographies.
For the full year 2013 we were pleased that our sales increased by 5% a positive indication of the strength of our position with both operators and equipment manufacturers around the world.
We expect demand to increase slightly in the first quarter and to remain essentially stable throughout 2014 as operators around the world continue their next-generation network build-outs.
We remain very well-positioned in this market due to our broad design-in positions on new base station platforms as well as our strengthening presence with a diverse range of global wireless operators.
The Information Technology and Data Communications market represented 19% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased 10% from prior year with broad-based strength across servers storage and networking hardware and were down just slightly from our third quarter sales levels.
We're very pleased to have had another strong year in the IT-Datacom market with our sales growing by 7% from 2012 clearly stronger than the broader IT market as we have continued to capitalize on our many new design-ins of high-speed and power products that are going onto next-generation data center equipment.
Our ongoing next-generation product development efforts together with the enhanced development and manufacturing capabilities that come with the addition of Jet further expand our future growth opportunities.
While we expect a normal seasonal moderation of IT-Datacom demand in the first quarter as we look forward to 2014 and beyond we remain very excited by the potential created by our ongoing new program wins with many new advanced technology platforms.
Our customers continue to push their data center equipment to new levels of performance in order to handle the rapid expansion of data driven in particular by the spread of new mobile devices as well as by the continuing proliferation of video on the Internet.
The broadband market represented 7% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased slightly from prior year and by about 5% sequentially as build-out activities slowed due to traditional seasonality.
For the full year our sales in this market grew by 15% supported particularly by last year's acquisition of Holland Electronics as well as by the wide range of new products this new company has allowed us to offer to broadband customers around the world.
We expect some improvement in demand levels in both the first quarter and the full year 2014 and look forward to continuing to realize the benefits of our expanded offering of cable and interconnect products.
So just in summary of the fourth quarter and the full year of 2013 we're extremely proud of the dynamic Amphenol organization as we have continued to execute very well in what is still a very challenging market environment.
Our new record results in both the fourth quarter and the full year of 2013 confirm once again the strength of the Amphenol team.
Our company's superior performance is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages our leading technologies a growing and increasing position with customers across a diverse range of end markets a worldwide presence essentially at every corner of the globe a lean and flexible cost structure and most importantly an agile and entrepreneurial management team.
Now turning to the outlook I'd like to just make a few comments.
Our outlook is based on a continuation of the current global economic environment as well as constant exchange rates.
Based on those assumptions we now expect in the first quarter and full year 2014 the following results.
For the first quarter we expect sales in the range of $1 180 000 000 to $1 210 000 000 and earnings per share in the range of $0.93 to $0.96 respectively.
For the full year 2014 we expect sales in the range of $5 billion to $5 120 000 000 and EPS in the range of $4.15 to $4.27 respectively.
For the full year this represents both sales and EPS growth excluding onetime items of 8% to 11%.
We're very encouraged by this strong outlook in sales and earnings especially given the many ongoing uncertainties in the global economy.
And as we launch and begin into 2014 as I mentioned we believe we're in the strongest position that we have ever been in as a company and I am confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to build upon these new record levels of revenues and EPS established in 2013 and to capitalize on the many opportunities to grow our market position and expand our profitability.
Thank you very much and we'd be happy to take any questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> It seems as though the margin profile of the sensor business is fairly low relative to the rest of your businesses.
Typically you don't integrate your acquisitions in a more traditional way but do you think you will be handling this acquisition in a somewhat different way given your comments around the margin structure? And I have a follow-up.
Yes Wamsi thank you very much for that question.
I mean look we don't intend to handle that differently from the standpoint of we have a wonderful organization that is very well-prepared to take on the task to improve the performance of that company long term.
Certainly we have great experience in the past of dealing with companies that we have acquired who have some further profit potential than was reflected in their results.
And we see no reason why in this case that applying some of those principles across Amphenol that we have honed for many years won't also have some potential here.
Clearly we're not guiding to that and as Diana mentioned in detail in her analysis this is at somewhat lower margin levels than in the past.
But we feel that we have a great team here we have a great technology great customer positions and there is certainly a lot of potential in that company for the long term.
Research Division</strong> And just a big picture question here.
Why does the sensor market makes sense for Amphenol? I mean what expertise do you think Amphenol brings to the sensor market that it should fit better in your portfolio? Wamsi thanks very much that's an excellent question.
The sensor market is something that is not brand new to us.
Let me tell you that in certain of our segments and in particular automotive and industrial we have seen for a number of years now increasing integration between sensor products as well as interconnect products to the extent we have even had products which we sell that incorporate sensors to them.
As sensors have grown in many applications that continues to drive also the interconnect to grow along the same time.
And so many of the challenges that go along with sensors aside from the core sensor element are really the packaging of those products and how do those products integrate into the overall electronics systems that they are working with in either a car or a tractor or a piece of medical equipment or on a plane and that's an area where we have tremendous expertise and experience.
And so we see that the sensor market has a lot of similarities in fact to the connector market.
It's a product that applies across a very very diverse range of applications.
It is certainly a low-value component in a very -- ultimately in high-value systems but one which has tremendous technology embedded in it and has a real mission-critical function.
And it is ultimately being integrated together with those interconnect systems more and more as packaging size becomes more critical as environmental considerations become more acute and so on.
It's something that we have seen evolving in our core business in our Interconnect business.
And in fact even in some of the acquisitions that we've made in the automotive industry there was even some tangential sensor products that were being supplied there.
And so we certainly have had our eye out onto this market.
We believe it has tremendous growth opportunities for the future as I mentioned.
It is really a market of similar size to the interconnect market and one with similar growth dynamics and similar diversification and a similar degree of fragmentation in the market to what we have experienced in the interconnect market for many many years.
The core sensor element certainly there are different manufacturing techniques around some of that but the ultimate packaging of the product and the ultimate application has a tremendous amount of similarities where we see tremendous potential for driving collaboration across our organization together with that sensors business to ultimately solve challenging problems for our customers.
And that's ultimately where we create our value.
Our next question comes from Jim Suva with Citi.
Research Division</strong> A quick question.
When we think about the acquisition of Amphenol and the machine really kicking in here as part of this long-term strategy we're used to it kind of reminds me of -- a little bit of positive déjà vu of when you acquired TCS years ago a very large acquisition you saw opportunity to improve margins.
Is this similar to what we're talking about here for your ability to improve margins and specifically kind of like what do you have to do? Is it re-costing the manufacturing or tapping into your supply chain or low-cost manufacturing or closing factories? Just trying to get a sense on how much visibility you have in the timeline.
Are we talking kind of a timeline of kind of 12 to 18 months similar to how then TCS was performing to corporate average? Sure Jim thanks very much for the question.
And again we're not guiding here towards any step function but we certainly believe that there is potential in the operating profitability of the company.
We're not going to get into in this forum specific details of what we would normally do.
But basically profit equals selling price minus cost.
And so you can imagine that somewhere in both of those categories we're going to approach and work with the management team to identify areas where you can either positively impact the former or negatively impact the latter.
And that is -- at the end of the day will drive the improved profitability.
It is a fabulous organization and that's something that we also did find with TCS.
And I think the analogy is certainly true in the -- to the extent that you had with TCS a company with great people and great technology that was part of a broader enterprise where maybe that wasn't such a focus.
And I think here you have great people you have great technology and it was part of an even bigger enterprise in the case of GE which is a fine company but it was not necessarily the focus of that company.
I'd tell you it's going to be the focus of Amphenol and of our management team.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a quick follow-up.
With 4 acquisitions in 1 quarter does your acquisition team integration team kind of -- pretty busy here for the next few quarters or you still have even more room to do? I just don't know if those are different teams of identifying acquisitions versus different teams of integrations.
Thanks again for the question Jim.
I mean look teams is kind of a big-sounding word for what -- our Amphenol lean organization.
I just want to tell you how proud I am of our team to have accomplished so much here in the fourth quarter.
I have said for a long time -- I mean we get lots of questions.
I think Jim you have asked some and others as well.
Well when are we going to make more acquisitions how is the pipeline.
And one consistent thing that I have always said which remains the case is you can't predict when these acquisitions are going to come you can't predict when they're going to close.
You continue to work them opportunistically as well as you do that in a very methodical fashion.
But the timing is tremendously opportunistic.
And I think the fact that our organization was able to execute on all of this in a real concurrent fashion is just a testament to the drive and the reactivity of the Amphenol organization.
And as it relates to "integration " we have a lot of people in the company who are involved in working with the local management team of these new companies to investigate to identify and to execute upon where the opportunities that they see for growth and improved performance are in the company.
And we have in Amphenol a tremendous amount of bandwidth with our small little team.
And we're very confident that if we can close what was essentially 4 acquisitions in the quarter to the extent that more opportunities come along we have no doubt that we can execute on that as well.
Our next question comes from Sherri Scribner with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could give a little more detail on the upside to the mobile piece of the business.
Was that in the tablet business? Was that more on the smartphone side? What surprised you there? Sherri no I think that we saw probably more upside coming out of the mobile computing devices which included of course tablets in the quarter.
The demand was a lot higher than what we had anticipated than what our customers had told us.
We certainly had a significant change to guidance at midyear and we reinforced that guidance going into the fourth quarter and that was all guidance based essentially on what our customers tell us.
And then our customers had a much bigger increase.
And you can't understate how challenging that is for our organization when they go from one mode to a totally opposite mode in an extremely short time period.
And I'm just so proud of them the reactivity.
It's a little bit like the acquisition from the last question.
It all came at once it came a little bit unexpectedly and our team was there to really capitalize upon that opportunity as it was there.
In a volatile market like the mobile devices market this is so critical to success.
And we don't know.
At the end of the day is there going to be some change in that market long term and in the short term it's a very hard market to predict.
But being able to capitalize upon that being able to react when it goes down and capitalize upon it when it goes up this is a tremendous competitive advantage to Amphenol.
It allows us to expand our position.
It allows us to keep the strong financial performance of the company regardless of the cycle in that very volatile market.
Research Division</strong> And then I just wanted to get a little detail in terms of the acquisitions how much they add to the first quarter.
I think you said total revenue for those 4 was $455 million or maybe that's how much you spent.
So much should we think of acquisitions adding to the first quarter and how much should we think about SG&amp;A being added to the first quarter? Yes sure.
I think that that was the price that we paid for them not the sales.
But the first quarter I think I said in the prepared remarks at the high end of guidance it's about a 4% organic growth.
So that should give you some estimation of the impact of the acquisitions from a sales perspective.
In terms of the elements of the P&amp;L there probably will be some increase in SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales because the acquisitions in aggregate do have a somewhat higher SG&amp;A level than what the company has on an average basis.
So I would expect that there could be some uptick in SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales as we go into the first quarter.
Our next question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Just on the GE business could you break down what percentage is auto and industrial? In addition as you integrate that business Diana will you be running those charges through the P&amp;L or would we see them called out here through 2014? Sure.
From a sales-by-market perspective the business is roughly 2/3 industrial which includes medical and the other industrial markets; and about 1/3 auto just roughly speaking.
From an integration standpoint Shawn I think we don't so much integrate in a traditional sense.
And I think that most of the work that we would be doing with the team as Adam I think said in response to an earlier question would be really more geared around trying to minimize their total cost structure and trying to maximize the value that they receive for the great technology that they have.
To the extent that there were purchase-accounting-related items like the backlog that I mentioned in the prepared remarks where we have to value certain intangibles and so on that would be onetime in nature we will call those out.
To the extent that there was some other large charge that was unusual in nature which we wouldn't anticipate at this point in time we would perhaps call that out.
But for the most part the work that we will be doing will -- wouldn't result in a charge that we would expect that would hit the P&amp;L.
Okay.
And then Adam just on the mobile networks market your tone in that maybe was a little bit more cautious than I would have anticipated.
I know kind of the mature market spending is declining but you're seeing supposedly at least an increase in emerging markets.
So maybe if you could talk about how you see 2014 progressing for mobile networks? Sure thanks very much Shawn.
Yes look the mobile networks market has for a number of years here been a very uncertain environment.
And in fact I think we had 2 years in a row up until 2013 where essentially our sales were down in that market and overall capital spending was down.
There were changes in the nature of the equipment.
There was different volatility in different geographies.
We're very pleased this year to have seen for the full year growth.
We grew roughly 5% on a year-over-year basis and that 5% growth really was driven by the progress that we've made interacting directly with operators on a global basis.
Relative to the coming year I would tell you that we're cautious in our outlook.
We -- I think my guidance and the comments that I made would tell you that it's roughly going to be kind of at these levels or flat for the year.
We continue to pursue opportunities to expand our position.
The dynamic that we see is that there is a cadence to the buildout on a global basis that essentially would lead one to believe that there is kind of one pool of equipment and there is one pool of kind of the crews and the service providers that install those new systems.
Thus one operator's spending goes up another goes down.
One region goes up another region goes down.
And I -- it makes some sense at the end of the day because the OEMs they don't want to have also that deep volatility and thus the pricing dynamics around the ultimate equipment going to the operators.
If they all bought them at the same time they'd all overpay for the equipment.
And I think that's kind of a well understood cadence in that market that even when you have strength in Asia in particular in China in the fourth quarter which we did see you have then a slightly more relaxed spending environment or more modest spending environment in places like North America.
We don't see any reason to think that that will necessarily change in the coming year.
However we have a tremendous position I'd tell you a much stronger position than we had a year ago.
And so to the extent those opportunities do arise we will be very quick to pounce upon them.
Our next question comes from Amit Daryanani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions for me.
One maybe to start with you guys are looking at about 2.5% organic growth in 2014.
I think that's about what you guys did maybe slightly better in 2013.
I'm just curious given the fact that the macro is better it seems like it's better this year versus last you guys seem to be better positioned and hopefully you don't get a mobile devices headwind the way you got in the back half of last year.
Why do you think organic growth is not going to be better in 2014 versus what you guys saw in 2013? Sure I'll let Adam talk about overall organic growth.
But just to mention the numbers at least the ones that we have we had about 4% organic growth in 2013 and then the guidance is a range of 1% to 4%.
So Adam? Yes and look I know that there are many indications of what the market is going to grow and has grown.
Just to give you one example if we look back over 2013 there's a couple of analysts who follow -- industry analysts who follow the interconnect industry.
I think one of them has the industry up about 2% 2.5%.
The other has the industry down by 2.5% 3%.
So I don't know what the industry grow.
I knew that we grow 4% organically in 2013 and we grew by 8% in total which is clearly above the industry averages in this year.
What the forecasts are for next year remains to be seen.
What the credibility of those forecasts is remains to be seen.
We think this is very strong guidance.
It's prudent guidance there's no doubt about that.
And we're not going to get out ahead of our skis here in terms of that guidance.
But there's no question that if we look at our total overall guidance that both Diana and I have discussed we think it is strong guidance and we continue to have confidence and we continue to have a goal that we're confident in achieving of beating the industry in growth.
It's something that we've done for more than a dozen years and we certainly don't have any -- we don't have any intention of changing that pattern going into 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right and then if I look at the GE assets you guys acquired maybe talk about structurally do you think that asset can sustain and achieve operating margins that are comparable to Amphenol's Interconnect business? Are you comfortable with that sort of assumption for that segment? Yes I mean look we're not again going to talk about future forecasts for what the Advanced Sensors Business is going to do in Amphenol.
We certainly acquire it not with the intention of keeping it stagnant and we certainly believe there is tremendous potential in the technology.
We know that there are companies in that industry who have good strong margins.
And any company that we acquire any new member of the Amphenol family we certainly have aspirations for them not to be below our corporate average.
But what that will be ultimately when that will come what the actions are to do that I mean this is a very new member of the family and we're not going to get into a lot of details about the steps and how that's going to come and what the ultimate goals are going to be for that.
But rest assured that our team is working extremely hard to identify opportunities to drive the performance.
And at the end of the day as I mentioned earlier what is the recipe for good margins and great margins like we achieve as a company? Comes down to people comes down to technology and then it comes down to discipline.
And that discipline that you have on spending combined with technology and great people to execute it those are all things that we believe very strongly we have in this company.
The next question comes from Matt Sheerin with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just question again on the mobility or the mobile device segment.
Adam I know you're talking it could be down more pronounced than seasonal.
But just backing into the -- based on your overall guidance in the Other numbers it looks like it's going to be down 40-plus percent sequentially.
Does that sound about right? Yes Matt we would say about 30%-or-so which is about the same actually as what we experienced in the first quarter of 2013 after a very strong fourth quarter 2012 so...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And Adam I think you said it was going to be sort of moderate.
So you expect that to be a drag in terms of that organic growth that you talked about that 1% to 4%.
Sounds like this is going to be one of the -- it's not going to grow and you're going to have to offset that with growth from some of the other segments.
Is that correct? Yes that's our expectation that I described and that's what we see today.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just with -- I know one of the headwinds you saw in the summer in addition to demand Adam was the fact that you saw some negative content trends in terms of fewer antennas in tablets and other devices.
Is that a trend that you saw continue and the growth that you see come primarily from volumes? Or are you seeing any mix shift there? No look I mean I think as I mentioned before the strength that we saw in the fourth quarter was largely around mobile computing devices in particular tablets.
So one can imagine that the sequential fall-off going into the first quarter that Diana just mentioned is roughly in that same 30% ballpark as what we experienced last year.
It is also very much concentrated around those same products.
I mean -- so as it relates to the full year we continue to have a strong position across ultrabooks across smartphones across the mobile computing devices like tablets and e-readers and whatnot.
But I think that we would see in particular with this fall-off in the first quarter that on a comparable basis going to the year probably those mobile computing devices would be a little less strong.
Maybe we'd see a little slightly better performance coming out of the ultrabooks.
And our phone business continues to be a strong business and that's one where we certainly have no intention of giving up even if it hasn't been the driver of growth.
But we see also in the phone market that there are increasingly new players including players outside of normal geographies where the feature set of the product is a compelling selling proposition for them.
When that happens that's when our technology finds the -- creates the value that ultimately allows us to participate in the market with the returns that we want to achieve.
Our next question comes from Mark Delaney with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could better describe the types of sensor products that you now have in your portfolio from the Advanced Sensors Business in terms of pressure sensors or force sensors or what exactly the portfolio there is.
And then as you talk about that maybe you can describe within the $50 billion TAM that you talked about for sensors how much of that total market you guys are actually addressing? So your served market within the $50-billion TAM.
Yes no that's an excellent question.
I mean they have a very broad array of sensor products and those would go into several categories which would include temperature sensors; which would include pressure sensors as you mentioned; includes also gas moisture and chemical sensors; as well as certain validation-related products.
But the sensor market the $50 billion I'm not going to proclaim to be an expert.
We haven't engaged the huge strategic consulting firms to go make a big analysis of that market.
I couldn't tell you specific breakdowns of what is where.
But I know that our -- the market that we are approaching is significant within that.
Certainly we have no intention to have this be the last stop for us in the sensor market and we'll continue to look for other opportunities to grow that market both organically as well as through acquisitions.
And it's a very very diverse market.
Again it is reminiscent to me very much of the connector market.
One talks about connectors and you have RF you have power you have harsh environment you have fiber optics you have high speed.
Within each of those categories you have tremendous arrays of different interconnect products different applications circular rectangular cable assemblies more value-add solutions.
And this is really a very very common description very common nature of what we see in the sensor market.
So we are just dabbling here so far.
I mean this $225 million in sales as we described in a huge market we are still a little fish in that big pond but certainly one where we believe that there's a lot of opportunity for our growth long-term through a wide variety of means and across a wide variety of product types including some which maybe we don't even know about today.
But I can certainly assure you that we're going to get very very well acquainted with this market over the coming quarters and years and decades.
And that will be a great new growth platform for Amphenol.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Following up on that can you give any sort of rough quantification of how often you think you're going to be able to cross-sell a sensor with a connector? No I mean that's impossible I think to put a number onto it Mark.
But I mean I think what we do see is that more and more applications today because of where sensors are going.
They're going into harsh environments things like wingtips and engine blocks and into wherever in the heavy equipment.
More and more the packaging of those products and the integration with them with the interconnect becomes important.
Because ultimately if you get back to basics here what does a connector do? A connector takes a signal and it transmits that signal it carries it from place to place.
And the goal of a connector is ultimately to transmit that signal without impacting it in a negative or positive fashion.
We're just passive.
We just let that signal go through.
Well what does a sensor do differently from a connector is it takes a physical phenomenon and then it translates that into a digital signal that then has to be carried effectively through an interconnect product at some level.
And so it is really one and the same very much reminiscent of when we a dozen years ago got into the antenna business.
The antenna is not a connector per se but in many ways it is a connector because it is taking a certain signal which carries a certain amount of data or voice or whatever that is and it transmits it without impacting it into the chain taking it from the air and putting that then into kind of a physical chain which there is the interconnect.
And it's kind of the beachhead of the connector if you will.
And the sensor is very much the same thing.
And so as that beachhead of the signal gets more and more into harsh environments the packaging around that becomes more and more critical more and more of a selling proposition more value that you can create for the ultimate customers.
And that's where we really see the opportunity here in that collaboration.
And whether you want to call it cross-selling or technology development whatever it is that's really where we see the opportunity on a collective basis.
Research Division</strong> If I could sneak one last one in.
Now that automotive is growing as a percentage of the total business I was hoping you could help us better understand what your regional exposure is between the different auto OEMs.
So maybe exposure between the Americas Europe and Asia Pac? Sure and I appreciate that question.
It is actually getting more and more diverse.
I'll tell you that in the fourth quarter and really for the full year of 2013 essentially Europe was about half our sales and then the rest of that half was split roughly evenly between North America and Asia.
But we're seeing tremendous growth actually in all those regions.
If you go back 5 years ago when it was a much smaller business for us I would have told you that Europe was maybe 2/3 of our position in that market.
So with both our organic efforts that we've made together with the fine acquisitions that we've made over the last kind of 3 4 years in the automotive market we have built not only a very broad product offering across a much wider range of new automotive electronics but we've done that while also getting a much broader geographical spread in the business which benefits us as different macroeconomic trends impact different regions.
And most importantly technology innovation sometimes comes from one region or another.
It's not just -- there's not one region that has a monopoly on technology innovation.
We're very pleased to be present when that innovation happens in all these geographies.
Our next question comes from Amitabh Passi with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Adam my first question was on the IT &amp; Datacom market.
You sounded quite bullish on the market for 2014 yet if I look at a couple of the larger OEMs: Cisco gave a very cautious guidance a quarter ago; IBM last night.
The hardware business was extremely weak.
Just trying to understand is your customer exposure diversifying? Are opportunities like white box switches and servers interesting to you? Does that move the needle from a content perspective? Just any incremental insight you can give us to sort of bridge the disconnect with what we're hearing from some of your OEMs.
Yes no Amitabh thank you very much for the question.
I mean we're very proud of our IT &amp; Datacom performance in 2013.
I mentioned we grew in the quarter 10%.
We grew for the year 7%.
Certainly we have seen the recent earnings releases.
And it's not the first quarter in a row where our results don't jive necessarily with what one is seeing in the market of the OEMs.
What I can tell you is that we've had just tremendous growth and tremendous progress that we've made designing in new technologies on next-generation systems.
And whether that is our leading high-speed products whether that's the expansion of our power products or also participation with let me call that nontraditional areas of the market.
You mentioned white box but I would also talk about data centers I'd also talk about service providers in that market where we continue to make more progress there as opposed to in the traditional OEMs.
Looking into next year as I mentioned in my original remarks we do expect sales to be down in the first quarter and we expect in -- for the full year some moderate growth for the full year.
What that ultimately will be we certainly believe we have the continued opportunity to outperform the market whether that's reflected in -- however anyone wants to say what is the market we believe that we are outperforming that and we're taking share in that market through our new product technologies.
Research Division</strong> That was very helpful.
Just on the telecom market any updated thoughts? You talked about slightly better trends in China in the fourth quarter.
Again I think there's a lot of expectation building for 4G rollouts in China.
Do you plan to participate in that market? Do you think it will be an important market an important driver this year? And what are your expectations for that market? Yes I mean it was for us in the fourth quarter Asia was very strong in that market.
I mean that was -- we had in Asia and the wireless infrastructure market really strong double-digit growth.
It was offset by some declines in other markets.
And the thing about the 4G LTE in China is that has been a phenomenon.
It's not a phenomenon to come.
It's a phenomenon that we're in the middle of if not even coming more towards the tail end of that in terms of the buildout of the equipment in preparation for the ultimate installation in the field.
And the way it works in China is people tend to build a lot of base stations and then they have the tenders and then they ship them on several days' notice out of inventory.
And so we've been participating strongly with both global and local OEMs on that and that is -- that was certainly a contribution to us in the fourth quarter in the wireless infrastructure market.
What it will be in 2014 again it's hard to say.
I wouldn't get as granular as to give kind of guidance in that market on a region-by-region basis but to the extent that there is further strength further equipment buildout as well as the installation that follows that in Asia we certainly are going to be there to participate in it.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood with Macquarie.
Adam I'd appreciate it if you can give us your perspective in terms of why so many of the recent deals have been in automotive in terms of part of Advanced Sensors FEP and Syntomi [ph].
Is this where the innovation is currently kind of most cutting-edge? Or is it just where the buyers and sellers are meeting with kind of the current outlook in the sector? Yes no Mike thank you very much for the question.
We have talked about now for the better part of I think 3 3.5 years that we saw a lot of opportunity to grow what was for us always a relatively smaller position in the automotive market as we saw this kind of expansion of electronics into the car which thereby created an opportunity for us to embed more technology in the products and to realize the returns the financial returns that we like to get in our business.
And so we embarked on over really a 5-year time period a significant expansion organically together with identifying unique companies that had unique technology offerings that deliver those returns and made acquisitions.
I mean if we look at the acquisitions we've made over the last 2 years I would tell you that out of 10 acquisitions I think it's 3 or maybe 4 of those have been automotive.
So yes that's certainly more than the other markets.
But we've made acquisitions across virtually every one of our market segments.
In 2012 we added companies in industrial we added companies in IT &amp; Datacom we added automotive we added Commercial Air.
The same again this year with the sensor company which as Diana mentioned has a significant industrial component to it.
We have industrial again automotive Commercial Air IT &amp; Datacom.
So we don't focus all of our acquisition resources just on one or another market.
We continue to believe that the best strategy for Amphenol is to have really our presence across a wide array of end markets.
That being said when automotive has that growth potential in it and when it did represent a smaller proportion of Amphenol no doubt about it we've been very let's say very sensitive to looking for the right acquisitions and we've been great at executing upon them when they've come about.
So if there's more that's there we will continue to not shy away from that to the extent that these are companies with great technology that allow us to make those returns that we value so much in Amphenol.
Great and as a follow-up I noticed sequentially a little bit share buyback then you've done in prior quarters.
Is this just timing or is there any kind of leverage that you're looking at to consider the size of the buybacks? Sure I mean that is true that we did buy back a little less stock in the fourth quarter.
But I think that if you look at the company's strategy over many years that strategy hasn't changed.
If you look at the full year 2013 I think you see a good balance between that prioritization we have with deploying capital between the acquisition program and then returning capital to shareholders.
Over the last 5 years or so I think we funded about $1.5 billion in acquisitions and we returned about the same amount to shareholders either through stock buyback or the dividend program.
So we as a management team feel that maintaining that flexibility on a quarter-by-quarter basis allows us to react as Adam described to take advantage of short-term periods of time where we are able to execute more from an acquisition perspective.
We continue to believe that the acquisition program is clearly the best strategic and return potential for the company.
And so I think you will see us as we go forward err on the side of being able to do more from an acquisition standpoint if the right opportunities present themselves.
But clearly there's been no change in the company of -- in the strategy of the company.
We try to be thoughtful and we try to have a balanced way of really deploying the capital with both a balance of acquisitions and return of capital to shareholders.
Our next question comes from Steven Fox with Cross Research.
Just one question for me.
Just on your margin targets for the quarter the 18.8% and then for the full year the 19.6%.
If you hit those targets especially for the full year does that imply that the recent acquisitions are sort of at the optimal level from an operating standpoint? Or would there still be more room to improve efficiencies from there? Sure I think consistent with what Adam described earlier on a few questions on the Advanced Sensors acquisition in particular the guidance does not assume that the acquisitions would reach what we would consider their full potential to be.
And so we certainly will continue very diligently to work with those teams as Adam described and we're very excited and feel good about the fact that there will be future potential to come from an ROS perspective.
Our next question comes from Brian White Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Adam I'm curious what drove the Sensor acquisition? Is that something you've been looking at for a while? Is that something customers are asking for? What drove it? Yes Brian I appreciate the question.
I think I mentioned earlier that this is not a new concept to us the sensor and it's something that we've been thinking about for quite some time.
It's something that we have for lack of a better term dipped our toe in the water with and in certain other acquisitions that we've made.
And so again just to reiterate it is a market where we have seen more and more value placed upon that kind of total solution that comes with the interconnect product and whereby we can create value and where it doesn't make sense to our customers.
Any acquisition that we make ultimately we make those acquisitions not just to add an adjunct to Amphenol but we do that in a very strategic fashion.
We do that in a sense to broaden our position in the market to allow us to create more solutions to our customers to bring in place strong people and an excellent management organization and ultimately to create the value for the company that we believe that our acquisition program has done for many many many years.
And we think this will be another in a long line of successful acquisitions for Amphenol.
But it's not something that just sort of popped in out of the blue if that's your question.
I mean it is certainly an area that we have been thinking long and hard about across many of the end markets that we participate in.
Research Division</strong> Okay and you're familiar with the Internet of Things.
The Internet of Everything as Cisco calls it.
A lot of the industrial market is going toward a major transformation especially GE connecting things to the Internet.
Are those capabilities these sensors have or how far are you going to take it? Now look I mean that opens up a whole topic here.
We could spend hours together to talk about what the Internet of Things is and what are the ramifications for Amphenol.
It's clearly a very positive ramification because when one talks about the Internet of Things you're not anymore talking about 5 billion connected devices or whatever it is.
You're talking about tens and tens of billions of essentially nodes wherever there may be and a lot of those nodes are sensors.
And so whether those sensors are interacting with each other wirelessly whether those sensors are interacting through some system where ultimately they have to be connected whether the connector systems are antennas or whether they are harsh environment packaging of a circular connector whatever that may be there's no doubt about it that as things become more interconnected as they communicate more you drive a greater potential for us to really participate across that whole range of applications.
And that's not to mention Brian the whole architecture and the underlying network where as that Internet of Things expands that Internet of Things is creating data.
And it's creating 1s and 0s that are going across the network.
And a lot of the work that we're doing and where we're winning in the IT &amp; Datacom market growing like I said 10% in the quarter 7% for the year a lot of that is around building that ultimate architecture which can deal with an Internet of Things.
And again whether those things are a temperature sensor whether those things are a video monitor or whatever it's going to be there's going to have to be a backbone there to support the data that comes through it.
So we participate in this Internet of Things really on the front end as well as in the backhaul and the back end of how that works and it's a very very exciting trend for the company.
Our next question comes from James Kisner with Jefferies LLC.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about gross margin.
I know you managed the bottom line but your gross margin was a little light this quarter.
I'm just wondering what we should kind of think about the year-over-year change in gross margin 2014 if you have a point of view.
Sure I think as you said in your question we absolutely do manage the bottom line.
We just feel that this makes the most sense.
We've done this for a very long long time frame.
We feel it's very important to focus all of our operational teams on all elements of cost.
And the only way to do that is not just to try to manage margin or SG&amp;A on a discrete basis.
That being said certainly when you look at the individual components that lead to operating income margin there can be some impact from mix within the various markets.
If you look at the third quarter of 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2014 -- '13 sorry we have some -- a large part of the sequential sales growth that comes from the mobile device market as an example and that's a market that just by its nature tends to have lower gross margins it also has lower SG&amp;A costs.
So I think you will from time to time see some fluctuation on either the gross margin line or on the SG&amp;A line.
But I think what you do see on the bottom line is a consistently strong industry-leading operating income margin that has been expanding.
And we have had very very strong performance this year with about a 23% conversion margin on incremental sales for the year.
So we feel very good about the profitability of the company and we do feel it's important for us to continue to manage the bottom line because that at the end of the day is what we want to maximize.
Our final question comes from William Stein with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm hoping you'd be willing to comment on the material content metals and plastics and such in the sensor business relative to the connector business.
Is there a big difference between those 2 in that regard? Yes I mean look they're ultimately -- as I mentioned before sensors have a sensor element and then they have some packaging to them and the packaging oftentimes is an interconnect product.
So I think to the extent that they have the packaging of an interconnect product they would not be so different.
But the underlying elements of the sensors are very different.
They're made of different things and we're certainly getting our hands around what all those different things are.
But it's not necessarily a tremendously material-intensive business from that standpoint.
I wouldn't say that it's characteristically so much different than our business and if anything there's probably a little bit less of things like gold and a little bit less of things like copper in the core elements.
But when you have the final packaging of that this would not be so different from a connector.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great and one follow-up if I can.
I think historically you've been consistent about talking about a 25% drop-through or incremental margin on the operating line.
And with these acquisitions running lower do we think about the 25% as the aggregate number? Or is that on top of and kind of separate from the cost savings you're going to get from the acquired businesses? Sure.
I mean I think I've given some information on 2014 in terms of the operating income margins we're expecting in 2014 with the acquisitions coming in newly.
And embedded in that guidance relative to the base business is that sort of normal target that you're describing.
But clearly because the acquisitions primarily the Advanced Sensors Business is somewhat lower that does result in a lower conversion margin for the 2014 year.
I think as we would look out beyond that there isn't any reason why our goal would change on an ongoing basis once the acquisitions get up to what we would consider to be our average operating margin level.
When exactly that happens and as we work through it with them we wouldn't exactly say at this point in time.
But we do feel that there is more potential from an ROS perspective for the combined total than necessarily what you would see in the 2014 guidance.
Very good.
Well I think that this was our last question.
And once again we very much appreciate all of your attention here in I know what is a busy day for many of you on the call here.
Let me just reiterate we're very very pleased with our strong finish to 2013 and we have great confidence in 2014 which will be another excellent year for Amphenol.
Thank you all very much and we look forward to speaking to you again soon.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the First Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
My name's Diana Reardon and I'm Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we'd like to welcome everyone to our first quarter earnings call 2014.
Q1 results were released this morning.
I'll provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the first quarter with sales of $1.246 billion and EPS of $0.99 before one-time items exceeding the high end of the company's guidance.
Sales were up 15% in U.S.
dollars and in local currencies compared to Q1 of 2013.
From an organic standpoint excluding those acquisition and translation impacts sales in Q1 2014 were up 7% over last year.
Sequentially sales were flat in U.S.
dollars and down 5% organically from Q4 of 2013.
Breaking down our sales into the two major components our cable business which comprised 7% of our sales was up 4% from last year.
Our interconnect business which comprised 93% of our sales was up a strong 16% from last year resulting from the dual benefit of good organic growth and the impact of our acquisition program.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income excluding one-time items increased $234 million from $207 million last year.
Operating margin excluding one-time items was in line with our guidance at 18.8% down about 40 basis points from last year.
The decline in operating margin is due primarily to the lower profitability level of the advanced sensor business acquired in December of 2013.
As discussed on our last call this acquisition is accretive on an earnings-per-share basis so it [ph] reduces the company’s overall operating income percentage as the business currently operates at a lower level of profitability than the average of the company.
We’re very excited about the potential of the acquisition and expect their operating income margins to improve over time based on the combination of their excellent management team leading technology and Amphenol’s strong operating discipline.
From a segment standpoint in the cable segment margins were 12.2% equal to last quarter and down from 13.8% last year primarily due to the impact of market pricing and some impact from product mix.
In the interconnect segment margins were 21% down from 21.4% last year.
The year-over-year interconnect operating margin decline reflects the acquisition impact I just discussed.
We are very pleased with the company’s operating margin achievement and continue to believe that the company’s entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control allows us to react in a fast and flexible manner thereby constantly adjusting the business to maximize profitability in what continues to be a dynamic environment.
Through the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry leading operating margins and remained fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
As we indicated in our January earnings call and as is required under US GAAP the company has recorded a one-time acquisition related charge of $2 million or $0.01 per share in Q1 of 2014 relating to the amortization of the value associated with acquired [ph] backlog for the Q4 2013 acquisition.
Our interest expense for the quarter was $19.1 million compared to $15.5 million last year.
The increase over last year is due primarily to higher average debt levels resulting from the company's acquisition and stock buyback program.
Other income was $4.1 million in the quarter up from $2.8million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income and higher levels of cash and short term cash investments.
The company's effective tax rate excluding one-time items was 26.5% in Q1 2014 and approximately 26.8% in Q1 2013.
On an as reported basis the company's effective tax rate was 26.4% this quarter compared to 21% in last year’s quarter.
As previously disclosed Q1 2013 tax provision included income tax benefits of approximately $11 million or $0.07 per share resulting from the delay by the US government in the reinstatement of certain federal income tax provisions for the year 2012.
Such tax provisions were reinstated in early 2013 and under US GAAP related benefit to the company was reported at that time.
Net income excluding onetime items was approximately 13% of sales in the quarter and earnings per share excluding one-time items increased a strong 14% to $0.99 up from $0.87 last year.
On an as reported basis earnings-per-share was $0.98 and $0.94 in the first quarter of 2014 and ’13 respectively and included the one-time items previously discussed relating to acquisition charges in 2014 and income tax benefits in 2013.
Bookings for the quarter were strong at $1.310 billion resulting in the book to bill ratio of approximately 1.05 to 1 for the quarter.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash and cash flow from operations in the quarter was $203 million or 127% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
From working capital perspective both inventory and accounts receivable declined about 3% from year end and stood at $773 million and $972 million at the March.
Accounts payable was $480 million at the end of March down about 13% from year end.
Cash flow from operations of $203 million along with net proceeds for the January bond offering of $743 million a reduction in short-term investments of $24 million and proceeds from stock option exercise of $60 million were used primarily to repay outstanding amounts under our revolving credit facility of $658 million to purchase approximately 1.4 million shares of the company's common stock for $121 million to fund $54 million of net capital expenditures and $9 million of payments related to 2013 acquisition.
Cash on hand increased approximately $136 million in the quarter.
At the end of March cash and short-term investments were just under $1.3 billion the majority of which is held outside the US.
At the end of the quarter the company had 4.3 million shares remaining under its 10 million shares stock repurchase program which expires in January of 2015.
And as we previously announced in January of this year the company completed a 750 million 5 year senior note offering.
The notes were issued at 99.846% of their face value and have an interest rate of 2.55%.
The company incurred fees of approximately $5.8 million in connection with the sale.
Debt at the end of March was $2.2 billion and net debt was approximately $924 million.
At quarter end borrowings and availability under the company's $1.5 billion revolving credit facility were $270 million and $1.2 billion respectively.
The company’s leverage and interest coverage ratios remain very strong at 1.9 and 17 times respectively and EBITDA in the quarter was approximately $286 million.
From a financial perspective it was an excellent quarter.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana and I'd like to offer also my welcome to all of you here on the phone today.
As is customary I'm going to spend some time to highlight our achievements in the first quarter.
I will then discuss our trends and the progress across our various served markets and then finally I will make a few comments on our outlook for the second quarter and the full-year of 2014 and we will certainly leave some time at the end for question-and-answers.
So Diana just detailed we're very pleased to report that the company exceeded the high-end of our guidance in both sales and EPS and achieved a new record in orders.
Revenues in the quarter increased a very strong 15% from prior year and equaled our fourth quarter record sales level of $1.246 billion.
Orders achieved this new record $1.310 billion which represents a book to bill of 1.05 to 1 and certainly bolsters our confidence for the future.
And once again we generated industry-leading operating margins with first quarter return on sales of 18.8%.
These results once again make me extremely proud of the Amphenol team.
Our agile and entrepreneurial organization continues to react quickly to capitalize on the many dynamic opportunities for growth and strong operating performance that are rising across the ever-changing landscape of electronics industry.
Before I turn to the specific markets I just want to say that our management team’s ongoing drive for diversification across the many end markets of the electronic industry has again created significant value for the company in the first quarter.
In fact we are truly proud of this great balance across our various end markets which expose us to every corner of the electronics industry while certainly insulating us from the risk of overexposure to any given market.
Turning first to the military market our sales in that market represented 11% of total Amphenol in the quarter.
As we had expected sales were down slightly from prior year and were essentially flat to prior quarter as stronger sales of our products incorporated into military airframe as well as engine were offset by a general moderation of purchasing activities by defense equipment manufacturers.
While there continue to be many uncertainties in the military spending plans of governments around the world we are encouraged to see increasing indication of firming demand in this market.
In particular our customers are making continued investments in new electronic functionalities and military equipment and we are capitalizing on opportunities for growth that we see in certain developed geographies.
We expect demand in the military market to increase from these levels in the second quarter and we continue to expect moderate growth for the full-year of 2014.
Importantly regardless of overall spending pattern we believe our technology leadership and broad program participation positions us to benefit long-term from the expanding adoption of electronics and military hardware.
Turning to the commercial aerospace market this market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased a very strong 26% from prior year and 4% sequentially as aircraft manufacturers continue to raise their production levels of new airliners on which we have increased content.
And as we benefitted as well from the sales contribution from last year’s successful acquisition of Ionix.
We remain very encouraged by our expanding presence in what is clearly a fast-growing commercial aerospace market and we are well-positioned to capitalize on the proliferation of electronics content on next-generation planes.
In particular these advanced electronics systems are requiring new higher technology interconnect solution to enhance fuel efficiency and improve passenger experience all of which creates excellent opportunities for Amphenol.
Looking ahead we expect sales to increase further in the second quarter as production levels for existing and new aircraft continue to climb and remain optimistic for our overall growth prospects in the commercial air market in 2014 and beyond.
The industrial market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter.
Our sales to this very important market increased a significant 47% from prior year as a result of contributions from the advanced sensor’s acquisition as well as due to strong performance in the rail mass transit instrumentation heavy equipment and medical segments.
Organically sales grew a very strong 11%.
Sequentially our sales increased by 24% primarily related to the addition of advanced sensors in late December.
We're very encouraged by our broad-based growth in the industrial market and it is really a clear confirmation of the company's progress in increasing our market penetration while also broadening our technology offering for the industrial market.
In addition we are very excited by the future opportunities for cross-selling of sensors and interconnect products used to protect against harsh environment and to ensure high reliability in particular in heavy equipment medical and construction applications.
Looking ahead to the second quarter we expect further growth as we increase our penetration of new sensor and interconnect technologies across a wide array of exciting industrial segments.
The automotive market represented 15% of our sales in the quarter.
Our sales increased a very strong 47% from prior year and 23% sequentially as we benefited from the diverse range of new automotive products provided by Advanced Sensors and Tecvox.
We achieved strong 24% year-over-year organic growth driven by accelerating sales of our new products used in infotainment emissions management and drive train control among another applications.
We’re very excited to see the result of our expansion into these and other new high-technology automotive applications as the benefits of our recent acquisitions combined with our long term organic product development efforts to create exciting new platforms of growth.
Automakers continue to incorporate advanced interconnect and sensor products into their electronic system in new areas of performance management fuel-efficiency and passenger comfort and infotainment all of which are creating great opportunities for Amphenol in this important market.
In fact over the last five years these trends have enabled the company to expand the automotive market from 6% of our total sales to 15% in this latest quarter.
This is just an excellent example of our – of the Amphenol organization really reacting to expanding high-value opportunities that can arise with advances and changes in electronics technology.
We expect sales in the automotive market to increase further in the second quarter as we continue to benefit from our acquisitions as well as from the ongoing expansion of vehicle production and electronic content.
The mobile devices market represented 16% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales were down slightly from prior year and declined sequentially as we had expected by about 29%.
As we’ve discussed previously our sales of products incorporated into tablets moderated in the second half of 2013 as a result of the reduced content opportunity in certain Wi-Fi only and white box tablet devices a dynamic which continues into 2014.
Nevertheless we were encouraged to have experienced growth in the quarter in sales related to new high-performance smartphones and laptops which partially offset the slowdown in tablet sales.
In the second quarter we expect some further moderation of demand as our OEM customers prepare for new product releases that are planned really for the second half of 2014.
And while we continue to expect sales this year to be down in the mid-single digit range due to the dynamics we’ve already discussed we do look forward to a step up in sales in the second half of 2014 as we benefit from our strong technology position on a range of new devices.
In addition our highly agile organization remains poised to react to and capitalize upon any incremental growth opportunities that may materialize throughout the year.
The mobile networks market represented 11% of our sales in the quarter and this is the market where we are very pleased to grow sales by a very strong 19% both from prior year as well as sequentially from prior quarter.
In the first quarter we were able to react quickly to a pickup in demand from both base-station manufacturers as well as mobile operators.
While our year-over-year growth was particularly significant in Asia we actually grew strongly in all regions on a sequential basis.
Based on our latest feedback from our mobile network customers we now have a more positive view of this market for 2014.
As operators in many geographies have increased their spending on LTE and other next-generation networks in order to accommodate higher data speeds and to relieve the gaps in coverage and capacity which exists across many wireless systems.
We are really encouraged now that the pent-up demand that we have talked about for quite some time for investment in mobile infrastructure is really now beginning to materialize.
Based on this new outlook we now anticipate further sequential growth in the second quarter and expect our sales growth for the full-year to accelerate from the rate of prior year.
In general we look forward to further long-term strength driven by our broad design and position on a wide array of base station platforms as well as by our growing position with a diverse range of global wireless operators.
The information technology and data communications market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased in this market 6% from prior year which is really led by growth in our products that are incorporated into servers and storage equipment in particular.
Sequentially sales declined as we had expected by 8% due to the normal first quarter seasonality that we see in the IT market.
As our customers continue to strive for new levels of equipment performance in order to handle what is clearly a dramatic expansion of data traffic I can tell you that our pipeline of new design opportunities with our next-generation products has continued to strengthen.
In addition we are accelerating our efforts at working directly with data center operators and IT service providers in addition to our traditional OEM customers.
This is actually very important as demand patterns in the IT market are shifting with certain of such end customers increasingly developing tailor-made solutions to their interconnect architecture.
Looking towards the second quarter while we expect sales to remain at these first quarter levels in the seasonally lower first half we do remain confident that our technology position will enable Amphenol to continue to perform well into the future.
The broadband market represented 7% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales were essentially flat to prior year and prior quarter as increased demand by international cable operators was offset by a moderation in cable spending by customers in the US.
While the market environment for traditional bulk cable continues to be challenging and competitive pricing environment in particular remains difficult as Diana mentioned we are encouraged to see the emerging benefits of our product and our customer diversification both which have enabled us to grow a range of broadband customers while offering a more complete interconnect product offering.
Going into the second quarter we expect our sales in the broadband market to increase from these levels and look forward to continuing our strong position in the broadband market.
So in summary I can just tell you that I am extremely proud of our organization we continue to execute well in what is no doubt still a challenging and certainly dynamic market environment.
Our superior performance once again is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages our leading technology our increasing position with customers across a very diverse and balanced range of markets the worldwide presence really Amphenol being in all corners of the world the lean and flexible cost structure and most importantly an agile and entrepreneurial management team one that is poised all the time to react to opportunities and to certainly deal with any challenges that may come our way.
Turning to the outlook and based on constant exchange rate as well as normal seasonal pattern and in consideration of our strong first quarter performance as well as our current expectations for the remainder of the year we're not increasing our guidance and expect in the second quarter and full-year 2014 the following results.
We expect sales in the range of $1.255 billion to $1.285 billion and 5.110 billion to 5.2 billion respectively.
For EPS we expect in the first quarter in the range of $1.03 to $1.06 and for the full-year $4.25 to $4.34 respectively.
For the full-year this new guidance now represents sales and EPS growth excluding one-time items of 11% to 13% and 10% to 13% respectively.
Our entire team is very encouraged by the strengthening outlook in sales and earnings especially given the many dynamics in the global economy.
The ongoing revolution in electronics continues to create for Amphenol tremendous opportunities and I am very confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities to grow our market position and expand our profitability and thereby ultimately to drive continued superior performance for Amphenol.
Thank you very much and operator at this time we’d be very happy to take any questions that there may be.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question Wamsi Mohan Merrill Lynch your line is open.
Yes thank you.
Good afternoon.
Adam on the guidance just wondering if there are any specific reasons for the sub-seasonal guide that's implying below what you guys have done historically? So just wanted to get some color on if you saw some particular trends that you might want to highlight aside from the ones you spoke about? No look I think it’s actually very strong guidance Wamsi I haven't gone back and done a historical analysis of every Q2 compared to Q1 we think that this is actually quite strong guidance.
I think that if you look at the beat that we had in the first quarter where we had expected the first quarter to be more things [ph] definitely down I think this is an outstanding guidance that we have here for the second quarter and for the full year and we feel very good about it.
That’s about how I would really say.
And Diana a quick question on CapEx.
Why are we seeing CapEx increasing so much versus last year? It was only $30 million last year and now it's $54 million and $50 million-ish last quarter too.
Anything that is changing that is driving the higher CapEx levels? Sure in the near term here Wamsi if you recall we had this flood back in 2011 in upstate New York and we are I think as we had mentioned in the past replacing and resulting that manufacturing facility at a much higher piece of land I would note so there is some incremental spending that you see in Q4 of last year Q1 of this year and then you also see some I think in Q2 as we complete the majority of the construction there.
I think that the CapEx last year was about 3.5% of sales I think it will be about 3.5% this year so it's really – it’s kind of still within our historical range but you are right that those two quarters have been somewhat spiky as will Q1 and then I would expect it to kind of go back down to somewhere 3% of sales or so the spike really relates to the funding of the replacement of that manufacturing facility.
Next question : Jim Suva Citi your line is open.
Thank you and congratulations to you and your team there at Amphenol.
I had two questions.
The first question is when we think about the integration of the Advanced Sensor business that's a very attractive market what is Amphenol doing as far as its efforts to increase the profitability of it? I think you were pretty clear on the prepared remarks it had the ability to be more profitable and contribute a lot more to Amphenol.
Is it like raw material procurement is it sharing of R&amp;D is it moving to low-cost consolidating plants are you in similar locations? What are you kind of doing to help out with those margins because it sounds like you have a lot of confidence in visibility that is going to happen.
If you can help us to understand that.
And then the second question is given the changes in the global raw material environment can you help us understand is that impacting your pricing some is it helping your margins some how should we think about the changes in raw materials and what your customers are giving feedback to you at Amphenol? Thank you.
Jim I would just maybe talk about the second question first and then Adam can talk about Advanced Sensors.
I think that certainly the environment relative to raw materials is a better environmental than what we had seen in a a while back I think that as you know very well one individual item by itself isn’t necessarily the answer relative to gross margin trends it’s really the balance between pricing dynamics in the market and input costs on a combined basis.
And what I would say I think that we certainly like this environment better than environment we had a few years back we really don't necessarily see it as a headwind I mean as a tailwind from profitability perspective.
I would also just point out that if you look at the guidance that we’ve just given in Q2 Q3 and Q4 and you look at the sequential conversion margins that are incorporated and reflected in that guidance they are quite strong they are actually above our target of 25% which we have for the company.
So I think the guidance that we’ve given on profitability and how that profitability is going to trend during 2014 off this new base level that we have established in the first quarter is really quite strong and I think it’s fully reflective of all of the opportunities that we do see which would include perhaps in certain specific product areas of the business where there may be some small help from the prices [ph].
Yeah relative to advance sensors let me just say generally first that we are extremely happy with the acquisition so far.
We have owned it just a few days over four months now.
And as we have always said what is our first criteria for an acquisition it’s people and it’s technology and we feel so good about both of those aspects of this company now that we get to know them certainly more intimately than one does during the process of an acquisition.
So from that standpoint the early return and our early impressions of the business are just fantastic.
We have also great feedback from customers together with the advanced sensors expertise across the sensor element and the new technology.
And we still believe with a lot of conviction that that that will be through and we still remain very excited about being part of this new growth platform for the company.
Relative to the profitability we certainly talked about and Diana mentioned also in her remarks that this is a company that did come in at a somewhat lower level of profitability in which we have a conviction that over time we will get that up to the level of profitability of Amphenol.
How does that happen? It starts really with a mindset it’s not bringing in people and kind of consultants and things like this it starts really with the mindset of management to take pride in their products and then to execute on those product opportunities and on the production in a way that is lean and able to really make money.
I mean ultimately we talked about profit is just selling price minus cost and so we will work really on both sides of selling of pricing for pride of the product and doing that in a cost-effective way.
Diana has also mentioned and those of the company those are all areas that the management team is looking at and it is really that management team the existing management team in whom we have so much confidence who is going to drive those things are they going to be a consolidation with Amphenol so it’s sort of traditional synergies that maybe companies in many industries could talk about you know that that’s really the way that we approach acquisition.
We believe that there's tremendous value inside of this company think that they have a fantastic technology and great people and no doubt about it we’re working intimately with them to find ways to extract even more volume from the business.
Thank you.
Our next question Sherri Scribner Deutsche Bank.
Diana I just wanted to ask and Adam also about the strength that you are expecting in the second half.
If you look at the full-year guidance you took the range up to the higher end of that guidance and you seem to be very confident.
I know that you mentioned the mobile devices business is part of the upside you expect in the second but wanted to get more detail and understand if there is some other pieces of the business that you think are going to see some upside in the second half.
Thanks.
Sure I think from a market standpoint it's really – in the first case some of those same markets that Adam talked about that we’re strong being strong for the full year and then being strong for Q1.
I think the one other difference that we do expect in the second half which Adam mentioned is we do expect sort of a second half lift to some extent in the mobile device market based on the knowledge that we have based on our operating in discussions with customers and so forth.
There are more new product ramps that are expected in the second half the Q3 and also Q4 from sequential improvement standpoint in that market does have some impact when you look at the full consolidated results on a first half second half basis.
Okay so it sounds like it is primarily mobile devices and then just general strength overall.
Maybe can I also ask about the mobile network piece of the business.
You guys finally are a bit more confident that that is improving.
Can we get a little bit more detail on what you are seeing there? I know you mentioned LTE and next-generation buildouts but maybe a little more detail on that would be helpful and if you think that is also part of the second-half recovery.
Thanks.
Well thank you very much.
No we’re actually very pleased with the performance of the mobile networks market this quarter.
it’s been last year we were pleased to finally see growth for the first time in I think the better part of three if not even four years in that market and we grew kind of mid single digits I think 5% growth last year and we were very pleased to see that growth accelerating here in the first quarter.
And as I said at the time of our fourth quarter call that we are cautious always at the outlook in that market because there can be volatility but at the same time we have done a great job over the recent three or four years to position ourselves very strongly such that if the spending cycle would really kind of let loose to some extent we would benefit from that and I think right now what we are seeing in many geographies is that the operators are now finally figuring out how to charge for data and as they figure out how to charge for data it allows them then to make the investments in the networks that are appropriate to make given this incredible proliferation of high data consumption devices that has been a dynamic that we have all been experiencing for the last half of a decade.
So I think that economics of the market starts to work its way out and thereby embolden the service providers ultimately will have to make investment decisions to make appropriate investment decision.
And we are also very fortunate that in this market we have such a broad presence at the OEM really not leveraged to any OEMs so whoever wins we are pretty agnostic to that and at the same time we understand that more and more of the interconnect and the antenna get specified and decided directly by mobile operators on a worldwide basis and so we find ourselves in a very unique position of having those – that great channel directly to the operators together with the preferred supplier relationships across the board with OEMs wherever they may be.
And I think in the quarter we really started to reap the benefits from that position together with – those favorable economics finally allowing operators to spend money.
As I talked about we saw great growth in Asia and certainly the LTE build out in China has not been insignificant benefits but we saw strong really in every geography on a sequential basis and that was something that traditionally you don't see in this market and of all the signs that make one feel a little more positive about the spending environment that that's one that I would really latch onto because normally these markets work in kind of countercyclical fashion there's sort of so much that goes on across the world and Asia builds a lot North America doesn’t build and vice versa.
But in this case we really saw strong performance across the globe and I think of all the things that give me and us – and our team really the most confidence.
Our next question from Shawn Harrison Longbow Research.
Two questions.
The first is on the IT datacom business.
It sounds from your comments Adam that market is slowing a bit and I know you guys have outperformed the market in 2012 and 2013.
Maybe you could just comment on where you think growth rates are going over the next 12 to 18 months.
And then the second question is just tied to liquidity and cash flow.
You guys I think had one of the best operating cash flow quarters for first quarter that I can remember.
You've got probably about $1.5 billion of liquidity.
Are there bigger deals out there that are becoming available or is it going to be a number of smaller deals maybe just your bandwidth to handle a lot of incoming deals as well as a management team? Well look Shawn relative to the first question IT datacom I think we feel very good about our performance on a year over year basis in the quarter we grew 6% in the quarter last year you may recall we grew that marketplace 7% in a market that arguably was really down last year.
And I think when you look at the OEM results and other data points it’s hard to say that that was a market that was up.
On a sequential basis the first quarter is usually down and the second quarter usually is also not a strong seasonal quarter in the IT market you tend to see a little bit more in the second half.
I think there are a lot of dynamics in this market and it’s a market where you got to really stay on your toes.
When you look at who is really making decisions where the spending is happening what's happening to IT budgets it is a very delicate market in that respect where some of the traditional spending patterns are really being turned on their heads.
And that’s why I talked I made some mention of the fact that if one is really just going to sell through the old channel of OEMs as one has done for a long long time in the past that can be a very very difficult market.
And I think to our credit we have worked really in a number of different areas in the IT market so we're not just focused only on the traditional OEMs we’re working directly with data centers we’re working directly with service providers where there is some shifting really of the balance of power and the decision-making around the electronics and the configuration of those electronics.
What does that mean really for the rest of the year I think if this stage it's a little hard to predict and thus I think our outlook is a very prudent outlook saying that we have this kind of flat performance in the first half followed by a second half that will be up by some amount.
Ultimately what that’s going to leave the IT market for the year I think it’s little too early to say we wouldn't have the conviction about that because I think we were able to develop around the wireless infrastructure.
Relative to acquisitions and certainly let Diana speak to any liquidity questions specifically but relative to acquisitions and the scale thereof we have always had an appetite for acquisitions regardless of size and so as we look out at the universe of companies that one day may become available we do not apply a criteria which is size of that company we have made acquisitions that are very small and very productive new platforms for the company and similarly we have made very significant acquisition like the Advanced Sensors the one that we made last quarter – in the fourth quarter which was really the second largest in the history of the company.
So to that extent there are good companies that are available in the industry that are not available – but that are out there in the industry that may one day become available really of all different sizes and I don't think that there is really change today in the nature of the size and scope of the acquisition opportunities and our pipeline for acquisition remains very strong we remain in great dialogue with a number of good companies and as I always say we remain wholly unable to predict when those will come which ones will come when.
But what I can tell you is when they do as they did with us [indiscernible] fourth quarter we will be poised and ready to take advantage of those opportunities.
Our next question Amit Daryanani your line is open with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks a lot.
Good afternoon guys and congratulations on a nice quarter.
Adam I was wondering if you would just talk about some of the initial feedback or thoughts you have on the sensor portfolio after having it under the Amphenol umbrella for the last few months now.
Are you seeing better cross-selling opportunities at this point and if so where do you think the cross-selling opportunities are more attractive is that the industrial side or the automotive side? Well I mentioned earlier on – I mean we have a very positive impression again we've only on the company they’ve only been part of our team for four months and a few days here.
So it is still early but we're extremely excited but with what we have seen so far and I think in particular we are excited from a technology standpoint.
They just have outstanding technology and even more outstanding individuals supporting the development of that technology.
So the interaction that happens and has happened really early on have been kind of our engineers to their engineers and I think I stayed there probably for the last time because they are just like our other engineers are.
And I think we have seen good opportunities and I would say we have seen them across both of the end markets that you describe obviously within the industrial market that’s a lot of sub markets everything from medical to heavy equipment construction and many many other segments and as well as in the automotive market I think one of the premises one of several premises that we had with this acquisition was that there is a value in the interconnect packaging of the sensor product and there’s just no question about it.
We do see that.
Now what does that generate in the short-term one can never be too overconfident about changing things from a technology standpoint so quickly with customers but the early returns with those customers the early dialogue that we are having and I personally have been involved in some of them that they are very very positive.
And I'm very confident that long-term that will be a tremendous advantage that we have as we go about slowly over a long time period.
You’re building a new platform of growth with this sensor business.
And I guess Diana when I look at the guidance that you guys have now especially with the next three quarters beyond the March 1 it looks like you are looking at convergent margins being sequentially being somewhere in the low to mid 30% range for Q2 Q3 Q4.
Could you maybe just talk about what is driving this better conversion margin from the historical trend? I assume GE sensor integration has something to do with it but maybe if you could talk about the couple of big levers that is driving that that would be helpful.
Sure I think that as you point out and I think as I said in response to another question you are right we get a higher conversion margin in those three quarters than our goal.
I think that we have if you go back historically especially in the Q2 kind of a timeframe had a conversion margins that were more in that range.
So I think there is a combination of factors certainly I know the sequential volume increases as we go along here with growth during the year is all factor I think that the environment in general from a margin standpoint is probably slightly more supportive than it had been in the prior years and – that balance of pricing and cost.
I think when you get into the second half of the year there is some contribution in there from some expected improvement in some of the acquisitions that have come in later in 2013 certainly not up to the average level of the company yet.
But as we go through those quarters there is some improvement that we are expecting.
In addition we have got a market or two in there that had been sort of flat to down for a few years is starting to come back.
So I think in general we’ve got some positive trends in the business from an operating management standpoint I think we’ve got a high degree of confidence throughout the company in achieving these high levels of conversion margins and we actually feel pretty excited as a team to be able to now incorporate those into our guidance for the remainder of the year and really start to build back as we get into the second half of 2014 to levels when you compare to the prior year that would be exactly where we would want them to be as a company as a whole.
So those are I think the main factors Amit.
Next question Mark Delaney Goldman Sachs.
Thanks very much for taking the question.
I was hoping first you could elaborate a little bit more on the outlook in mobile devices.
I understand there is some new wins.
If you could help us understand what sorts of products those are in if it's antennas or connector products.
And then maybe related to that if you could talk about what the opportunity is in the consumer wearables market? Well Mark thank you very much for the question.
As I discussed our outlook at this stage for the mobile device market would certainly be to have in the second half to pick up based largely on on some new programs a wide number of new programs and as you can imagine I am not going to talk specifically about anything at this stage but let be said these new programs are really broad across the broad range of applications that we participate in and we participate in everything from smartphones to ultrabook to mobile computing devices which include things tablets and E-readers.
So I am not going to comment about others specific but really not prudent given interaction with customers and the various confidentialities that there is.
And then for my follow-up question I was hoping to talk a little bit more on the Advanced Sensors business and really centers more broadly if you could talk about what you think the potential growth rate of that business is in terms of revenue growth? And then if there are other parts of the sensor market you'd like to expand in be it consumer or other types of the sensor end markets.
Look I think as I have said we believe that this acquisition which is big for Amphenol but really small given the overall size of the broad sensor market it is very exciting for us.
I mean if you look at the broad sensor market what is the real number for it but we’ve heard numbers in the range of kind of $50 billion in size roughly the same as the market for connectors and with our $225 million in sales that puts us in a certainly small for us significant but a small on a relative basis.
So where is the growth going to come from for us I think there’s going to be a lot of opportunities for growth and is that going to be in what markets.
Today we are stronger with the Advanced Sensors business in the industrial and automotive markets we think there are tremendous opportunities for growth in those markets.
One can imagine that we would be very interested in pursuing other markets where high reliability harsh environment the packaging of the products would be part of a very compelling sales proposition to customers.
Are we going to end up getting into consumer sensors and other things? I think that would – that's not something that necessarily would be at the top of our list and it certainly wouldn't be for us a high priority at this stage but I am not going to close any doors long-term.
We will see we're still learning about the sensor market it is a very exciting market and it’s a market where I think I've mentioned before what excites us so much about it is the makeup of that market just reminds us so much of the connector market took [ph] 15 or so years ago a market where you have just tremendous diversification a market where you have you tremendous technology innovation where you're making a product which ultimately as a small component in a broader more complex system but it’s a component that is very critical whereby if that fails things don’t work in the overall system and thus you can embed inside that product in outstanding degrees of technology which ultimately allow you to realize strong returns and the kind of returns that we want to make as a company.
Ultimately what’s the growth rate going to be of that business we wouldn’t have bothered if we thought it wasn't going to grow and we have certainly strong targets of our own growth.
We are achieving strong growth today and we don’t hold any operation or division in Amphenol to a lower standard than we hold collectively to ourselves.
So we would certainly expect and drive that organization to grow at least as fast as we can grow as a company and then long-term we look to grow organically we look to grow inorganically through acquisition.
And we're going to be very opportunistic and very – on one side and very methodical on the other side to really get to know the market from our position of strength and expand ourselves.
Just again – just as we have done in the interconnect market for the last decade and a half.
And I think… that’s the real opportunity across Advanced Sensors business long term.
Our next question Amitabh Passi UBS.
Adam I guess first question for you was book-to-bill 1.05 most of your commentary on most of the end markets is quite constructive going to the second quarter yet you expressed a level of caution in the macro environment.
I just wanted to see if you can flesh it out a bit more.
Did you see or are you still seeing a lot of volatility order week to week in terms of incoming orders? Did things soften as the quarter progressed? Just any incremental insight in terms of why the sort of hesitation and the caution still.
Look I think that we – first of all to answer your question about the quarter the quarter progressed actually very nicely throughout the quarter there wasn't any incremental weakening the end of the quarter was strong the beginning of the quarter was strong and February included the Chinese new year so you can imagine that you have a little bit of done well [ph] kind of a quarter there.
And I think that was not abnormal and there was certainly no change in how we finished the quarter to drive.
We feel that this is actually very strong guidance and if you look at the guidance across the course of the year as we’ve talked about it certainly does strengthen throughout the year.
I think when we look at the book to bill which was extremely strong I would tell you that some of the bookings come in what I would term more of our longer cycle businesses things like industrial and aerospace And military.
And those don't always convert immediately within the 90 days following the quarter in which they were booked.
And so that’s about maybe the only thing I would say to add little more color to the timing of the orders.
But I will just tell you we feel that this is actually very strong guidance and a very strong outlook going into the rest of the year.
Excellent and then just as a follow-up Diana for you with respect to OpEx and interest expense for the second quarter can you give us maybe just incremental insight in terms of what you are assuming in terms of how OpEx trends and interest expense? Sure interest expense will be somewhere around 20 million or so a quarter in Q2 and Q3 and then will come down in Q4 when our notes are retired.
From a SG&amp;A or OpEx standpoint the lift that you see in the first is really that acquisition impact that I talked about on the operating income line.
So that’s sort of in reset as the kind of full quarter of consolidation for the acquisitions that have somewhat higher SG&amp;A levels as I think Adam mentioned before and I think I mentioned on the last call.
As we look into the remaining quarters of the year we would expect I guess a normal Amphenol pattern as we look to more tightly control those expenses including those of the prior companies and I would expect as a percentage that SG&amp;A will start to come down it would grow into slower space than the sales growth from a sequential perspective.
Our next question Mike Wood Macquarie.
I saw one wireless carrier offering free 4G LTE data with the Wi-Fi service.
Is that a sign that you're seeing the stability in the mix between Wi-Fi only tablets and 4G tablets.
Can you comment on what you have seen there? I am not close enough to know what carrier and how that is.
But I think that if there is one thing that is happening is that carriers are looking if at all possible to offload this tidal wave of data from their cellular networks which are quite expensive to WiFi networks which certainly have much much lower operating expenses to them and so you will see some of the major carriers in North America who are really trying at all that they can do to bundle that kind of a Wi-Fi hotspot accessibility for free together with their more mobile broadband that really has to run over the over the wireless base station.
So other than that I don't know that I would have any further insight to that specific offer that you mentioned.
Again what I would just reiterate is what we are seeing is that the conviction of the carriers broadly to spend money seems to be strengthening at this time and that then translates ultimately into their willingness to spend capital on a more aggressive schedule which ultimately we can enjoy some of the benefits of and I think part of that willingness is that they are figuring out how to charge.
I mean I am a perfect case study or canary in the coal mine if you will on this.
I had for so many years this wonderful grandfather unlimited data plan with my carrier who I have been a phenomenal customer for for so many years.
And then I got a device and I didn't actually have the option of mobile broadband and I wanted to tether it and here they said well if you want to tether it you got to give up your unlimited data plan and there I am kind of stuck between the two mills on tier [ph] to make that decision and ultimately I did give up my unlimited data plan.
And I think I'm not the only one that’s been going through that kind of a calculus.
They are being very very astute I think the operators are figuring out how to migrate people off this plan and thereby start to charge for the data at the same time as they are trying very hard to move people into different means of accessing that data.
And together that is a very favorable result I think for the overall market and one which we are able to [indiscernible] Great color on that.
Now that Advanced Sensors is part of the portfolio for four months is it too early to tell or are you seeing the deal pipeline grow now that you have this larger served market? I think it’s early we’re not going to comment specifically about which acquisitions or pipeline in which market.
But it’s certainly something that long-term we will keep our eyes open for no question about it.
Our ability to acquire company is really very special advantage of Amphenol it’s a real organic advantage of the company in fact that because of our unique organizational structure we’re able to bring companies in in a very undisruptive fashion and because of our very lean approach to acquisitions we’re able to do this very very quickly we’re able to react when the opportunities are there and that ultimately does position us really an acquirer of choice or the acquirer of choice in the industry.
And I think as we expand our platform and start looking outside of the connector towards sensors from an acquisition standpoint those same benefits that we bring to bear over the last decade and a half in a very successful acquisition program we see no reason to think that those same benefits cannot also pay dividends in the potential acquisition of sensor companies.
Our next question Steven Fox Cross Research.
Just one question from me regarding the wireless infrastructure market.
Adam you talked about how some of the sales are coming closer to the carrier's decision.
Is there a way to break that down in terms of how much of the cable assemblies that you may be doing are related to that decision process? And then what does that do from a lead time standpoint or visibility into your business as a whole in terms of looking at wireless infrastructure? Thanks I'd rather not talk very specifically about how much of our sales to carriers and how much to OEMs.
And that’s something we like to keep in our knowledge and not in the pocket of our competition.
But what I can tell you is that our growth in the market is actually very balanced between the OEMs and the installation and the carrier business and some of the installation business is working directly with carriers some of that is working with really the sales teams of the OEMs and no question about it the requirements when you work with a service provider as opposed to an OEM are very different and that's true if you’re talking about wireless it is true when you talk about broadband it's true as we see that migration happening in the IT datacom market.
Carriers have very very different requirements and very different priorities than do OEMs.
I mean ultimately an OEM has a job which is to run their factories as efficiently as possible and thereby be able to solve – to be able to support their customers and it’s a somewhat more predictable business that they have that when you're running factories they don’t want to have that massive volatility in their factories.
As opposed to a carrier oftentimes what the carriers care most about is hey the crew is ready and able to set it up are the parts all there on time because if it’s missing one bolt or nut or clamp the crew can climb up on the tower to put everything back together again.
And so there is certainly a premium put on responsiveness and on the agility of – the lots about the agility of our organization and how we’re able to adapt very quickly to the different requirements of various markets and I think this is a perfect example of that where we have organizations who have been used to that sort of more sort of steady drumbeat interaction that you would have with an OEM who have really retooled themselves to interact with an operator and deal with the operator on their own terms because you can't force them to deal with you on your terms very successfully you got to adapt you’ve got to be agile you got to react to the realities of the market that you're trying to be successful in.
And I think that we have done that.
So yes a lead time sometimes shorter is there a little more volatility in the installation market you don’t know they have crew of four people going to a tower and one of them calls in sick they don’t go that day they don’t need the parts or it shows and they don’t need the parts or there is a storm [ph] they need even more.
So but that is something that we've been doing for a very very long time in Amphenol you know that we have had our broadband or cable business for a very long time that has always been the service provider business.
So many of the things that we know in dealing with service providers through the broadband market we certainly are able to use methodologies and approaches in dealing in the wireless infrastructure market.
And on a more recent basis in the IT market it’s the same dynamics come about.
Our next question James Kisner Jefferies.
Thanks for squeezing me in there.
Just regarding the conversion margin discussion and also just the improving materials cost environment I'm just kind of wondering knowing you guys manage to a bottom line but might you expect to see some of that improved contribution margin to come from improvement in gross margin? We've got a couple of years here where you have not hit 32% more closer to 31% now might we see some improvement in gross margin? Look I think as you pointed out in your question we really do manage to the bottom line and it’s been a very successful strategy for us.
We have a very diverse business and the components of that bottom-line whether it’s gross margin or SG&amp;A do vary some depending upon the particular type of product the market type of technology.
And so I think over time we may see some positive conversion on both lines but from our perspective the most important thing is how the conversion looks on the bottom line and I think we will continue to manage the business that way and we do so by specifically to what gross margin or what SG&amp;A are going to do in a particular quarter.
I think I said in response to the SG&amp;A question that we would expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to come down some as we move along and sales grow during the year.
And we do expect to see very strong conversion margin on the bottom line as we move through 2014 and we’re certainly very excited about that but exactly where that’s come down at the end of the day we can’t really say at this point and we do believe we get the best performance by making sure that all costs are managed [indiscernible] conduct ourselves and talk about it in that fashion.
This is a follow-up.
Are there any particular financial hurdles you guys look at in acquisitions return on investment capital or IRR? If you can't talk numerically perhaps just give us conceptually how you evaluate it if there's any kind of actual financial criteria other than just sort of strategic opportunity for revenue synergy.
Anything you can do to help us out there would be great thanks.
I mean we look at a lot of things I think Adam talked a little bit about acquisitions earlier on the call I think we look to pay a fair price for a business that has a potential to perform the way that Amphenol does as a total company.
And so we look for a business with good management with technology that has the potential for what we would consider above average growth and above average profitability and we look to make the assessment as to whether or not we think the seeds for that are there when we go through our acquisition review process.
We don't have hurdle rate for specific sort of pinpoint financial metrics because this acquisition is really – it has its own potential and also has its particular place relative to financial performance criteria some are better than our average some are below our average and so each individual decision is really made as it’s expensed [ph] for that particular opportunity.
Our final question from William Stein SunTrust.
Two quick ones.
First if we can get an update on your view on organic growth for the year.
I think previously you had a 1% to 4% view.
I'm wondering if you are giving any update on that.
And then Adam I have a follow-up on the wireless infrastructure business.
So the organic growth was about 4 to 6% in the current guidance for the year.
And then on the wireless infrastructure side Adam you have in the past talked about – you said a lot about this end market some of which was different from what some of the other component companies in particular some semiconductor companies have been talking about for a while.
One of the things that you highlighted is typically you don't get all regions working at once and now you're starting to see that in addition to this outside strength in China it sounds like.
So this kind of begs the question is this a peaking year and we should expect that in 2015 some of this business rolls off and we go to a more normalized level or do you see it more as a new base off of which we are going to see still more growth in the future? How can we think about that growth going forward please? Well thanks very much for the question.
I think it’s really too early to talk here about is this going to be – what will be the trends hat going into 2015 and beyond? I think we already feel pretty good that we’re able to give a prognosis the positive prognosis for what is usually quite a volatile market already for the next three quarters to say that we feel that that is going to continue to have a stronger position a stronger growth rate than we had expected going into the year.
So I wouldn't be able – in any position to be able to tell you what is 2015 going to be.
What I can tell you though is this as I said over the last 3 years we put a lot of effort into this market even if it was a market that was not growing architecturally that was not growing from an investment standpoint we continued across the board to work to expand our position in the wireless market.
And I think part of the reason why we had such strong performance here in the first quarter and I don't know ultimately is the market growing at what rate I think there have been maybe one data point earlier today which may have been slightly contrary to our result.
But clearly our growth in the market is a very substantial one and I think that is really a realization of some of the benefit of those efforts that we made over the previous years to really again expand our position with OEMs to broaden our technology or the range of technologies on to these new forms of wireless base station and to expand the depth and the range of our penetration with wireless operators.
And so I think regardless what happens in the market going forward that position does not go away it's not like we have a peek in terms of our position in the marketplace.
Ultimately what’s going to happen with the spending only the few people who are out there who make capital decisions in the wireless market they are going to be the ones who are going to ultimately have to vote with their wallets here on what the trend is in spending.
But our position in this market is extremely strong stronger I would argue than it has ever been in the past.
And with that that gives us good confidence for this year and certainly I believe that going forward we will continue to have a very excellent position in that marketplace.
Great very helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks so much Will and I think that was our last questions.
I will just take this final opportunity to thank all of you for your time and attention today and to wish all of you a very happy and hopefully warm spring around the world.
Thank you so much.
We’ll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today’s conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
Following today’s presentation there will be formal question-and-answer session.
Until then all lines will remain in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company the conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today’s conference for your host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Thank you you may begin.
Thank you.
My name is Diana Reardon and I’m Amphenol's CFO.
I’m here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we would like to welcome you all for our second quarter earnings call.
Our Q2 results were released this morning.
I’ll provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We’ll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the second quarter with sales of $1.314 million and EPS of $9 exceeding the high end of the company’s guidance and achieving new records of performance.
Sales were up 16% in U.S.
dollars and 15% in local currencies compared to Q2 of 2013.
From an organic standpoint excluding those acquisitions and currency impacts sales in Q2 were up 7%.
Sequentially sales were up 5% in U.S.
dollars and 6% organically from Q1 of 2014.
Breaking down sales into our two major components our cable business which comprised 7% of our sales was up 2% from last year.
The interconnect business which comprised 93% of our sales was up 17% from last year reflecting the benefit of both good organic growth and the company’s acquisition program.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income increased $256 million from $224 million last year.
Operating margin was 19.5% in the quarter compared to 19.7% last year and 18.8% last quarter.
The decline in operating margin versus 2013 is primarily due to the lower profitability level of the advanced sensor business acquired in late 2013.
As previously discussed the acquisition is accretive on an earnings-per-share basis but reduces the company’s overall operating income percentage as the business currently operates at a lower level of profitability than the average of the company.
We continue to be very excited about the potential of the acquisition and expect their operating income margins to improve overtime based on the combination of their excellent management team leading technology and our strong operating discipline.
The sequential increase of 70 basis points in operating margins over the first quarter of 2014 represents a very good conversion margin on incremental sales of 32%.
This strong performance resulted from an increase in operating margin in the interconnect business based on excellent operating execution and cost management on incremental sales volume.
From a segment perspective in the cable segment margins were 12.7% up from 12.2% last quarter and down from 13.8% last year primarily due to the impact of market pricing and some impact from product mix.
In the interconnect segment margins were 21% up from 20.9% last quarter and down from 22% last year.
We are very pleased with the company’s operating margin achievement and we continue to believe that the company’s entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control allows us to react in a fast and flexible manner thereby constantly adjusting the business to maximize profitability in what continues to be a dynamic environment.
Through the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry leading operating margins and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
Interest expense for the quarter was $20.1 million compared to $15.6 million last year.
Due to higher average debt levels resulting from the company's acquisition and stock buyback programs.
Other income was $4.3 million in the quarter up from $3 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income on higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
The company's effective tax rate in the quarter was 26.5% compared to 26.8% last year and net income was approximately 13% of sales in the quarter.
Earnings per share increased 15% to a record $1.09 in Q2 up from $0.95 last year a very strong performance.
Orders for the quarter were $1.320 billion resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 1-to-1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash and cash flow from operations in the quarter was $181 million or 102% of net income.
For the six months ended June 30 operating cash flow was $383 million or 114% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
The company had good working capital management during the quarter.
Inventory with $805 million at the end of June up 4% from March.
Inventory days were 81 days consistent with March levels.
Accounts receivable at the end of June was just over $1 billion up 6% from March and day sales outstanding declined one day to 70 days.
Accounts payable increased 11% to $534 million at the end of June and payable days were up four days to 54-days.
The cash flow from operations of a $181 million borrowing under the company’s revolving credit facility of $120 million and $60 million of proceeds from stock option exercise were used primarily to purchase approximately 1.4 million shares of the company's stock for $129 million to fund capital expenditures of $52 million and acquisition of payments of $10 million in the quarter and for dividend payments of $31 million.
This resulted in an increase in cash and cash investment of $144 million during the quarter.
At the end of June cash and cash equivalents and short term investments totaled $1.4 billion the majority of which is held outside the US.
Total debt was $2.3 billon bring net debt at the end of the quarter to $900 million.
At quarter end borrowings and availability under the company's $1.5 billion revolving credit facility were $290 million and $1.2 billion respectively.
And EBITDA of Q2 was approximately $308 million.
At the end of the quarter the company had 2.9 million shares remaining under its 10 million stock of purchase program which expires in January of 2015.
And as mentioned in the earning release the company’s Board of Directors has approved an increases in the quarterly dividend on the company’s common stock from $0.20 to $0.25 per share increasing the yield to just over 1%.
This increase is effective for payments beginning in October.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent performance.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana and I would also like to add my welcome to everybody on the phone here today.
As Diana mentioned I'm going to highlight some of our second quarter achievements and in particular I’ve planned to discuss the trends and the progress across our various served markets.
Finally I will make a few comments on our outlook for the third quarter and as well as for the full-year of 2014 and we’ll certainly leave some time at the end for question.
I’m just very proud that in the second quarter Amphenol has set again new records in sales and earnings per share and exceeded the high end of our guidance.
Diana mentioned sales increased 16% from prior year and 5% sequentially establishing for the company a new record of $1 314 billion in sale.
We are also very pleased that our order has reached also a new record of $1 320 billion with the book to bill up above one.
And profitability as Diana mentioned was very robust in the quarter and we generated strong sequential conversion margin which led to an expansion of our industry leading operating margins to 19.5%.
And Finally I would just like to note that with the Board of Directors approving the 25% increase in our company’s quarterly dividend from $0.20 to $0.25 this is yet another very clear indication of the sustained financial strength of Amphenol.
I’m just very proud of our global team these record results reconfirm the strength of entrepreneurial culture.
As the Amphenol management team has once again able to react quickly to the many many opportunities that are being created by the electronics revolution all the electrocides in the consistent discipline and drive necessary to create outstanding operating performance.
The strength of our strategy of market diversification also was very evident in the second quarter.
The Amphenol business remains extremely balanced and broad with no single end market representing more than 17% of our total sales in the quarter.
Turning to the trends and progress across those markets the military market represent 11% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales were down slightly from prior year and up slightly from prior quarter as growth in military vehicle airframe as well as communications applications was offset by overall reduced demand in other segments of the military market.
There is no question that the overall military market remains uncertain.
But nevertheless we expect demand in the third quarter to grow slightly from these levels and we continue to expect this market to return to growth in the second half as volumes increased related to new programs on which we have higher content.
We’re very confident that our technology leadership and broad program participation positions us to benefit long-term from the expanding adoption of electronics and military hardware as well as from growth in military hardware spending in emerging geographies.
The commercial aerospace market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased a very strong 26% from prior year and 4% sequentially due essentially to increased jetliner production as well our expanded content on new airplane platforms.
In addition we continue to benefit form the Ionix acquisition that we completed at the end of last year.
While we do expect some normal seasonal moderation in demand in the third quarter we continue to maintain a very positive outlook for the commercial air market in 2014 and beyond.
We simply have an excellent and expanding position in this exciting market and we continue to take advantage of the many new technology opportunities that are arising on new airplane platforms.
In particular as our new interconnect technologies are able to resolve an increasing variety of challenges based by our customers who are designing and building next generation planes.
We’re confident that our position will continue to strengthen over time.
The industrial market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter.
We had extremely strong sales growth of 52% which was supported by the Advanced Sensors acquisition completed at the end of 2014.
We had also very strong organic growth of 16% which was driven by gains in the medical instrumentation rail mass transit heavy equipment as well as oil and gas segments.
On a sequential basis sales increased 8% with growth in virtually all areas of the industrial market that we play in.
We’re especially encouraged by the breadth and balance of our industrial growth which is a clear validation of our long standing strategy of diversification across the broad array of segments within this important market.
In addition I would like to note that we are very pleased to be seeing early in positive signs of the value of our newly acquired sensor portfolio to our industrial customers around the world.
In the third quarter we expect further growth despite what is a traditionally seasonally softer quarter.
As we continue to make excellent progress broadening our technology offering while increasing our penetration of the many exciting growth areas of the industrial market.
The automotive market represented 15% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market also increased a very strong 42% from prior year and 18% organically.
We continued to benefit from the diverse range of new sensor and infotainment automotive products that are provided by Advanced Sensors and Tecvox the two acquisitions we made at the end of last year.
And we also grew our sales organically with new products used in Telematics in emissions management as well drive train control application.
On a sequential basis sales grew by 3% in the automotive market.
Automakers continue to incorporate advanced interconnect and sensor products into a wide array of vehicle electronic system which is really creating great opportunities for our company.
In addition we’re beginning to see interesting opportunities to leverage our interconnect and sensor product range together to create new solutions for automotive customers.
Ultimately we’re confident that our broad high technology offering will enable us to continue to outperform the overall automotive market.
Looking towards the third quarter we expect the slight increase in sales and what is also typically a more seasonally moderate quarter.
And we look forward to an excellent 2014 and beyond for expanding automotive business.
The mobile devices market represented 16% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased stronger-than-expected 8% from prior year driven by higher demand for products used essentially in mobile computing devices including both tablets and laptops.
Well we had expected some sequential decline in sales coming into the quarter in fact we were able achieve 6% growth over the first quarter as we’re able to quickly adjust our production resources in order to capitalize on higher levels of demand across the broad range of devices and customers.
Looking ahead to the second half we now anticipate a somewhat faster ramp-up of sales in the mobile device market and thus expect overall sales to grow in the range of low-single-digits for the full-year.
This increase from our previous expectations of mid-to-high-single-digit decline relates to stronger than expected outlook on a range of existing programs together with some benefit from new product launches.
The mobile device market remains no question extremely dynamic.
It is really only through our leading technology offering together with our outstanding and extremely agile team that we are able to continue to react quickly to capitalize on any opportunities that arise to drive growth in this important market.
The mobile networks market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter and we executed very well and what is just simply an excellent quarter in the mobile networks market.
Our sales increased a very strong 26% over prior year and 16% sequentially.
While this sales growth was strongest in Asia in fact our sales grew strongly in all our major geographies and was balanced across our wide range of both equipment manufacturers as well as our site materials sold direct to operators.
While we continue to anticipate in the second half a somewhat lower level of demand we maintain a very positive view of the mobile networks market for the full-year 2014.
We’re very encouraged that our long-term technology investments across the broadest array of interconnect and antenna products has positioned us strongly to capitalize on accelerating next-generation mobile network deployments and we look forward to continuing to build on this position in the long-term.
The information technology and data communications market represented 16% of our sales in the quarter as we’d expected sales decreased by roughly 6% from prior year on primarily lower sales of networking related products.
Sequentially sales did increase slightly as growth in servers and networks products were partially offset by a moderation of sales of products that are used in storage systems.
Based on our latest input from customers in the IT market we did not expect any significant increase of demand in the third quarter and accordingly we continue to anticipate that our sales will be flat to slightly down for the full-year in this market.
There are clearly some market uncertainties in the IT market but despite these uncertainties we remain very confident in our long-term position in the IT datacom market.
Due to our leading technology offering our preferred supplier relationships with a very wide array of OEMs as well as our fast growing presence with direct with datacenter operators and web service providers.
The broadband market represented 7% of our sales in the quarter sales declined slightly from prior year on a moderation of spending in particular from U.S.
cable operators an increase as we had expected by around 4% from the first quarter.
While the market environment for traditional bulk cable continues to be challenged and while the competitive pricing environment remains difficult.
We are encouraged to see still emerging benefits of our products and customer diversification which has enabled us bother to grow our range of broadband customers while also offering what is the more complete interconnect product range.
Moving into the third quarter we expect sale in the broadband market to increase from these levels and we look forward to maintaining a strong position in the broadband market.
Well looking back on the second quarter I can just say again that we are just extremely proud of the entire Amphenol organization who has continued to execute well in what remain very challenging and dynamic market environment.
Our superior performance is a direct reflection of Amphenol’s distinct competitive advantages.
Our leading technology our increasing position with customer across the diverse range of markets our worldwide presence and our lean and flexible cost structure at end of the day the company’s greatest strength continues to be Amphenol’s high performance culture which gets reinforced every single day by the company’s agile and entrepreneurial management team.
Turning towards our outlook for the third quarter and the full year based on constant exchange rates as well as the assuming stable economic condition and in consideration of our strong second quarter performance as well as current expectation for the reminder of the year we’re very pleased to be able to increase our guidance.
We now expect in the third quarter as well as in the full-year of 2014 the following result.
We expect sale in the range of $1 320 billion to $1 350 billion and $5 210 billion to $5 270 billion respectively.
And for EPS we expect for the quarter and the year in the range of $1.12 to $1.15 and $4.35 to $4.41 respectively.
For the full-year this guidance now represents sales and EPS growth excluding one-time items of 13% to 14% and 13% 15% respectively a very strong guidance.
We’re very encouraged by our strengthening outlook in sales and earnings.
Especially given the many continuing dynamics across the global economy.
Look the ongoing revolution in electronics continues to create for us tremendous opportunities.
And I remain extremely confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities both to grow our market position and to expand our profitability.
And thereby to drive continued superior performance for Amphenol.
Thank you very much.
And at this time operator we will be happy to take any questions that they maybe.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Sherri Scribner from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you Adam and Diana.
I wanted to just ask about what is driving the upside to the guidance.
When you look at it just looking through the segments it seems like maybe mobile devices is driving some of that; you raised your outlook for the second half.
I just wanted to get a sense of – is that the right way to think about it? Which areas are really driving the upside?  Yes Sherri thank you very much.
I think you put your finger on it mobile devices it certainly of all the markets to won that have the biggest change in terms of our outlook I think the other markets there some small puts and takes but as I mentioned we certainly are pleased that not only were we able to react quickly to what was essentially some unexpected degree of demand in the second quarter but we continue to believe that will translate into some higher levels and we had expected in the coming third quarter as well as through the year.
And ultimately we go from having felt that market would have been it kind of a mid to high single-digit decline to low single-digit increased on the year-over-year basis.
So that no doubt it all of them the most meaningful change in the guidance.
Okay.
And then Adam I was hoping to get your thoughts about the demand environment right now.
I think in the press release you said there is still a lot of uncertainty but just wanted to get the sense of – do you think that things have gotten better? Thank you.
Yes well thank you very much.
I mean I’ve said many times before that I don’t fancy myself at all a macroeconomist.
We read the papers and there is no question that there remain still a lot of turbulence in the world no doubt about it some of our markets have a more fair wind behind them if you look at marketplace the automotive market and the industrial market wireless infrastructure clearly these are markets commercial aerospace and other ones we’re outperforming significantly we believe the end market but the overall markets are performing well.
At the same time you just have to look at a cross section of earnings releases from various OEMs in the electronics industry to know that not everything is going up into the right.
There continues to be a lot of dynamics in the market from every corner and that’s not to mention any kind of geopolitical things that happened or don’t happen in time.
Is the overall economy growing at a different pace of GDP? That I have no idea we are not commissioning studies about this and I actually don’t spend a lot of my time to look at what the GDP trends are that are half a point better or half a point worse.
But we see a lot of opportunities ourselves to capitalize on that change because at the end of the day when there is dynamics the agility of how we run the company and the agility of the culture of Amphenol has just so much power to take an advantage of that change.
Unexpected things that come from every corner of the electronics industry these are the things that the Amphenol team is just so capable at taking advantage of and its not taking advantage up here at headquarters that Diana and I kind of directing traffic it’s more having our general managers around the world really sensing out in real-time when those dynamics are coming and taking advantage of them.
And I think this quarter was a great example of our ability to really find those areas of strength take advantage of them better than maybe others can do and thereby to drive the results that you have seen.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you so much Sherri.
Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research your line is open.
Hi congrats on the quarter.
Sorry to maybe take a negative tone toward the mobile devices business but the past two years as you had positive expectations heading into the back half of the year some surprises came out.
I guess what is different this year? Is there more content per device that you are seeing? It sounds like you picked up a little bit of share during the second quarter but maybe just flesh out why this year will be different than prior years?  Yes no Shawn it’s not a negative we don’t take it negatively whatsoever.
I think what we have always said is the mobile devices market is extremely dynamic.
Just to Sherri’s question mentioned that we see a lot of dynamics around all the markets but there is none that are more extreme than mobile devices and we certainly don’t feel that we are oracles in that market in terms of being able to always predict perfectly what happened.
At the same time our team is just very reactive.
And so in the second quarter it’s true whether that’s picking up share I mean we were able to satisfy customers on a more expedient fashion than others were.
And that can carryover going into the second half and we believe it will.
We are always prudent in how we look at this market; we are not going to give forecast to the penny in terms of what every rosy outlook that you may reason to media would so we are always very prudent in this market.
I think when we look last year at the change there was a kind of a structural change in the technology of the products and that let us to have a second half that wasn’t what we expected to be.
We don’t think that that’s going to repeated itself as we talked about that was a one-time shift.
And I think looking at the second half today in the mobile devices market we feel that there we have strong position whether it’s a gaining share or not it’s already a very strong position.
We’re able to satisfy customers on the ramps that they have around increased demand that they have and that’s serves as well going into the second half.
And we’ll see how it goes.
Again we – we’re not perfect at picking where that market goes but we’re excellent at capitalizing on it regardless.
Very fair.
Then Diana there is a $600 million piece of debt coming due in the middle of November.
What are your expectations in terms of – will you refinance that? Will you pay it off with the credit facility? How should we think about that piece of debt coming due? Sure I think we have options in that regard we did if you recall do a debt offering in January of this year in anticipation of the fact that we had the maturity coming up in November and could take advantage of the rates at that time all the rates are still quite low now.
So I think we have options one option certainly would be it’s refinance it with another bond offering and another option is to use availability under our revolver and we certainly have plenty of room there and I think we’ll make that these vision as we go along here in the next few months.
But none of those accretive dynamics are included in guidance currently? I think the guidance would assume that we do some sort of refinancing sort of coincidence with the date of the maturity of the bonds offering but I wouldn’t expect that whatever we do would have a very substantial impact.
Got you thanks so much.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Steven Fox from Cross Research your line is open.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
A couple of questions just on some of the comments you've made so far Adam.
First of all in the mobile devices market talking about satisfying your customers quicker than others can you just expand on what you were referring to and what kind of capabilities you seem to have gained that are giving you that advantage? And then I have a follow-up.
Sure.
No I mean look it just comes down to – since it is such a volatile market Steve that demand can go up and demand can go down very rapidly and dealing with that is not easy.
I mean that can mean you got a higher lot of people or you got to do the opposite that can mean you have to be you have to work in a way that selectable from a capital standpoint from how you setup production lines I mean there is just a whole host of things and I can tell that I’m not going to go into any detail here because some of that what I would consider nice proprietary secret sauce about our success but at the end of the day it comes down to a mind set.
The culture of Amphenol and organization is probably better than anyone here having covered the company for so long.
We come down to general managers in the company 85 of them are around the world who run these businesses in real-time and they have all the tool at their disposal to make changes without having to go through layers-upon-layers to say can I do this or I cannot do this? In that market in particular the customer come to you at noon and they need an answer by 12.30 and if you have to go through some approval process to say “well I’m going to go hire another 150 people or 500 people or I’m going to buy this machine I’m going to do this” you have already missed the opportunity because someone else has given them that answer by 12.30 when they ask that question at noon.
And it’s that real-time ability to respond that is essentially in the DNA of our culture and how we are organized that serves us so well on that market.
On the flip side obviously when there are downturn as we've experience in times past it also serves you well because you can make quick adjustment to your resources to preserve the bottom line of the company and thereby it makes that business sustainable because if you get into a mobile device business where you go through these kind of convulsive ups and down with restructuring and plant closing and other things you are never going to be prepared for when that up side comes because you are now recovering from that kind of massive change that had to undergo at the last downturn and so because we are able to do that in real-time with general managers who make real decisions everyday it just makes it a much much more successful and it makes us more able to deal with that dynamic market.
Great.
Thanks for that.
Then just as a quick follow-up with regard to the Sensor acquisition I know you're not going to provide details in terms of financials; but you did mention a couple of times when you talked about industrial and auto in particular that you are already seeing opportunities to leverage that portfolio.
I was hoping you can give us maybe some examples or just guide us in terms of what you mean and what kind of time frame that would be related to.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thank you very much its great question.
I’m not going to give specific product examples for obvious competitive reason but I can just tell you I have personally been over the course of the last quarter to a quite a number of customers because I wanted to sit in front of those customers and hear it from them how they felt about this and what they saw for the future and I can tell you it’s really universal.
They are so pleased to have us coming in as a company with tremendous resources with a tremendous history in particular and high reliability harsh environment product.
I mean we invented most of these harsh environment high reliability products we have been the company for the better part of century who they recognized as that enterprise and then to come in and bringing together that core sensor technology become all the way from the sensor element to the ability to package it that has been just such a wonderful story to tell and has received just a great reception these are customers in a wide variety of areas in a wide variety of regions.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Congrats on the quarter.
Thanks Steve.
Matt Sheerin from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong>  Yes thanks.
Hi Adam and Diana.
Question Adam regarding the mobile networks business mobile infrastructure business where you have had strength and you're talking about a moderation.
Is that just based on what you are seeing in terms of programs? And there has been some semiconductor companies out there talking about some push-outs in orders because of a mismatch of components where there are some component shortages which are gating production.
Are you seeing any of that? Or what are some of the things you are seeing in terms of visibility there? Sure no thank you very much for the question I mean look mobile networks has been very positive market for this year and I think we’ve been speaking consistently through the course of the year that we felt that there was probably more first half spending and second half.
Now all that being said even with some moderation in our business in mobile networks in the second half that would still be up quite significantly on the year-over-year basis.
The shortages as that you’ve talked about these are directly impacting us I mean most of these shortages that are being talked about around the industry have to do more with semiconductor but clearly they impact customers and their ability to procure all the components to make the sell-side equipment.
And that can have an impact on our business as well and I think if you would ask me at the very beginning of the year I probably would have told you that the second half have a more pronounced downturn than the type of moderation that we’re anticipating today.
So I think there has been some of that stretching out that you mentioned I think that maybe somewhat more magnified in Asia where they’ve just been a few very significant build out so it used a lot of components and some of those components aren’t – no one can make half of them.
None of those are our components we’re doing a fabulous job to satisfy the increase in demand and we have had really no issue to support what are very significant increases in this business I mean if you think about it on the sequential basis in the mobile networks market of 16% increased that’s pretty significant to deal with in a 90 day period and we’ve had no problem to deal with that.
We look forward and we feel very good about how that market is progressing this year.
And one thing I think I talked about it last quarter but I just want to reemphasize.
This was a very difficult market for the better part of two three years to mobile infrastructure market.
It would have been very easy to throw in the towel and just say that is a bad place to be.
Let’s not invest let’s not spend the time let’s put our people elsewhere let’s forget about those customers.
we didn’t do that and we don’t do that.
That’s not how we run our company.
We knew that there was a pent-up demand in that one day who knows when that one day would be but that one day there would be a requirement to upgrade the networks and we wanted to make sure that we are well positioned for that.
I think this year we are really realizing the fruits of that confidence and that persistent that we had and continuing to work in that market which for the better part of three years was not the most fun market to report upon.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
That's very helpful and just as a follow-up regarding the mobile devices where you are seeing strength and I know you have got basically three customer segments there Adam with mobile computing and smartphones and tablets.
And I know that dynamic has changed somewhat for you in terms of the breakdown.
Could you give us an idea of where you are seeing the strength? Is it across all those three segments? And give us an idea of the breakdown within those segments of that business? Sure and I unfortunately not going to give you the breakdown strictly and that’s something that certainly we try to keep somewhat closer to our best relative to customers and competitors but I can tell you that the strength in the quarter as I mentioned in my earlier remarks we saw more coming out of mobile computing devices on a year-over-year basis coming really from mobile computing devices which is a range of things tablets laptops eReaders Ultrabooks you name it.
On a sequential basis we actually saw more strength coming out of smartphones and also some on laptops and maybe less out of things like tablet.
And looking forward I think we have a positive outlook really across the board for those on a sequential basis.
We look at kind of the second half to the first half where we certainly have a strong expectation for sales growth.
I think we would see that growth really across all the areas.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks a lot Adam.
Thank you Matt.
I appreciated it.
Amit Daryanani from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Perfect thanks a lot good afternoon guys.
Two questions for me maybe Adams just on the mobile devices side historically you’ve had volatility that’s typically been related to one customer.
Do you think with the strength you are seeing the ramps you are seeing is more than just one OEM are there multiple customer that you are excited about or is just one customer driven ramp? Sure thanks Amit for the question.
I think we have never said that volatility in that market is related to one customer I think what I have always said is there are always different leaders in this market over history and we’ve seen many companies cycle through the leadership position and we've dealt with that regardless of who and then we’ve grown our business consistently regardless of that.
As we look towards to strength in our business I would tell you that it’s certainly not just one customer we are working with a lot of customers in that market there is a lot of companies who are establishing what I would call unique niches of strength in various regions and we have great position with all of them.
LLC</strong>  Fair enough.
Then just as a follow-up Diana your conversion margins were not 30% I think this quarter on a sequential basis; you are guiding for better than that I think in September.
How much of that is being driven by maybe accretion or integration from the Sensors acquisition versus other tailwinds that you are seeing? And can you sustain this 30% conversion margin beyond June and September really? Sure I think that we as you pointed out we did achieve good conversion margin in Q2 and I think just on a long-term basis the company has a very good track record of strong conversion margins and strong profitability achievement in a pretty diverse set of environments.
This particular conversion margin in Q2 was inline with what we expected for the quarter and the guidance in the second half for Q3 and Q4 is also actually consistent with the guidance that we had last quarter it just on now a higher level of sales.
And the Q2 conversion margin was largely attributable to just great operating execution in our interconnect business.
in the second half of the year there is some small contribution from some expected improvement and some of the acquisitions from last year but I would say largely the improvement in ROS and the stronger conversion margin is just coming out a very strong operation execution on the base business.
And the drivers of that strong profitability are really an unrelenting focus on cost the tension to the top line in terms of which new business we choose to participate in making sure we stay on the high end of technology and therefore can demand appropriate value from a pricing perspective.
So while there is some small contribution I wouldn’t say that we’re expecting in the second half of the year to have the acquisition reach what we would consider as full potential to be that would dwell beyond 2014.
LLC</strong> Got it.
That’s really helpful and congrats on the good quarter guys.
Thank you.
Thanks Amit.
Thank you [technical difficulty].
Hi thanks for taking my question.
I’m wondering if you can comment on the M&amp;A environment today and the pipeline and maybe also comment a little bit about product category that you will be going after and you recently acquired center business from GE and I wonder if that’s going to be a particular focus going forward? Thank you.
Yes.
No thank you very much.
Obviously M&amp;A has always been for us a real core component of the company’s expansion strategy and we been doing M&amp;A for a long long time – certainly well north of decade and decade and half.
During that time period we acquired just so many fabulous company’s and last year and if you take the last two years we acquired 10 companies in two years and we continue to have just a very vibrant and strong pipeline and we continue to look at M&amp;A not as well we are only going to go in one direction or we going go after this pace in technology but rather we believe there great M&amp;A opportunities across the various markets that we serve.
If you just look back over a two year period when we made those 10 acquisitions those 10 acquisitions were across that have been five or six of our end market.
So there was not at all kind of doubling down on one or another one of our markets and one and other of our technologies.
At the end of the day what we look at from an acquisition as we look at sort of three simple things number one first and foremost is management.
We look for company’s that have great leadership.
Leadership of people who want to continue with the business and we want them to continue with the business who will operate in the Amphenol organization as the entrepreneurs just like our other 85 general managers do in such a effective passion.
Next we look at technology we want company’s that are really high technology providers people who solve problems for their customers and whatever space they maybe in.
And then finally you obviously want company’s who have a complementary market position to our own.
And despite the size of Amphenol and the breadth that we operate and there is still just a wider ray of potential acquisition and potential company’s that can fit those kind of three litmus test that we have.
You notice what I didn’t talk about is hurdle rates and things like this because that’s not how we run our acquisition we pay fair prices for things.
We certainly look for acquisitions to be accretive in the first year but ultimately we believe that if you have the right people and you have right technology and you are doing that in a complementary fashion to our own that’s going to be very very successful acquisition program.
It shown to be such over many many years and we believe for many years to come and we will continue to be great asset for the company.
Thanks and congrats on the quarter.
Thanks so much.
Mike Wood Macquarie Research.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Also to follow up on the M&amp;A question.
How are you currently viewing making additional acquisitions in the sensor market? Do you need to first integrate Advance Sensors or do you have the capacity to make other acquisition in adjacent connect to a products and if you could also comment on the size of sensor opportunities out there in the market.
Sure thanks very much Mike.
Look we have capacities to make a lot of acquisitions I think we showed it last Q4 we made four acquisitions in a short time period and we didn’t expand our little headquarters stuff here to do that so there is capacity to make the acquisitions is not a question so we would not at all restrict ourselves from making another sensor acquisition given the fact that we just acquired GE business just over a half year ago.
So we will continue to look for a companies across the board and interconnect and sensors and antennas and other things that we do and we’re the confident that that will bear fruits overtime.
The other thing you asked about size and I mentioned the various criteria that we use for acquisition size is not one of those criteria.
So we have the capacity and we have to wherewithal to buy companies really of any size subject to the fact that they fit in our other criteria of having good people and great technology and I think that we have a wonderful financial capacity to do those acquisitions and to the extensive there are companies of a greater size we would not shy away from pursuing them if they were the appropriate companies to buy.
Okay.
Could you also comment on how much of your cable business is now the specialty growth that you were pursuing versus the more commoditized product and is that pricing pressure limited to certain areas of that cable business? We don’t break it down by product specifically again competitive reasons are important to be sensitive to here but what I can tell you is both with the Holland acquisition that we made a couple of years ago as well as our internal development efforts we have a much broader array of products today beyond just cable and reels that we sold for so many years and one can imagine that the growth profile of the business would not be surprising for you to learn that those kind of products grow at somewhat faster rates than do the bulk cable product.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Jim Suva from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Thank you and congratulations to you and your team at Amphenol.
I have one question for Adam and then one question for Diana.
So just taking them in that order Adam great results but when we do look at the details underneath it I think there is still a few little areas of potential improvement and want to see if you are aware of them or if you are seeing that there is the potential to improve on it or what your course is.
Not specifically regarding the cable products.
I believe it is about 7% of your company so not a big part.
Most of the questions previously asked were on the other bigger parts.
But on the cable parts you are hitting multiyear high in sales levels but your profitability is the opposite direction not hitting multiyear highs.
So is that more excess industry capacity? Is that more pricing by competitors? Is it product misplacement? Or how come we are not seeing with you hitting multiyear high in sales there not better profitability? Then for Diana on the dividend increase I believe and I personally feel that M&amp;A and organic growth I guess organic growth first and M&amp;A second is the best use of cash.
So to see your dividend increase is that just simply you want to have a rule of thumb of a 1% dividend yield going forward? Or is that the M&amp;A opportunities are less? Or how should we think about the increase in dividend?  Yes Jim thank you for those obviously two excellent questions.
Relative to cable I mean I just talked about our strategy in cable which is really to work to diversify our product types.
I have spoken many times about the fact the cable environment the pricing environment has been a very challenging environment for a quite sometime it continues to be a very challenging environment.
We continue to be a company that is very disciplined and we will remain disciplined in our cable pricing.
But when you have a market which is so concentrated we are also not just going to let the market totally fall through our fingers.
So we will always let the leaders in that market set the price and we will follow that.
As I have always said by the time the sun has set we don’t let a price increase fall through our fingers.
But at the same time you mentioned it very well it has become a much smaller portion of the business it’s important part of the business to be in the broadband market per say.
Because we have our cable product segment but the broadband market remains one of the most important areas in terms of delivering high speed data to customers home.
And so we remain very committed to that market even if the cable products margins are certainly lower than we would like and you can bet that our team will continue to work towards getting those margins up.
And in terms of the second question Jim I think that there certainly has been no change relative to the company strategy regarding capital deployment.
And we had a very consistent strategy for many years now.
And from a prioritization perspective certainly while we do prioritize the acquisition program in terms of using the financial strength we also feel that a flexible and balanced approach is equally important.
And I think if you would look at the historical pattern for the company whether you look at 2013 or you look at back over the last five years.
We’ve typically about half of our free cash flow and I think we just generated something along $2.6 billion $2.7 billion over the last five years and free cash flow about half of that is going to fund the acquisition program which has been a very successful program and added a lot of value for the company and about in the other of that about is gone back to shareholders.
And that return of capital to shareholders has been a balance of stock buyback and the dividend which really didn’t get 20 real amount until 2013.
So the dividend is very much a part of the strategy of having flexible and balanced approach on increase that we announce brings yield up to about a 1% yield.
In the context of the approach that we have for that balance we think that that is an appropriate level for the company but the prioritization of the capital deployment has not changed.
And certainly the acquisition program is still from our perspective as a management team the best source of long-term growth and profitability enhancement for the company.
Thank you.
Congratulations again to you and your team at Amphenol.
Thank you.
Thank you very much Jim.
Thank you.
James Kisner from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Hi thanks for taking my questions.
Just a quick clarification.
Did you guys buy any companies in the quarter? I just saw on your cash flow statement you spent $10 million on an acquisition.
I don't think I heard you say anything about that.
Maybe that is a prior announced acquisition.
We had a couple of payments that related to some previous acquisitions and we had a very small acquisition – I call more of a vertical integration of a very small company that didn't rise to a level that we would be talking about.
Inc.</strong>  Great.
And separately just on the military piece I am not sure if I heard you guys right that you said you are seeing some growth on hardware spend in emerging geographies.
I guess I had always thought of this business as pretty much a domestic and Western business.
I just want to understand your exposures there and what particular geographies you might be – you maybe exposed to in military other than the U.S..
I guess I am just wondering longer-term if there's conflicts around the world could you potentially see some benefit from that? Thanks.
Well thank you very much look we’re not trying to capitalize on world instability so let me say that very much at the frontend here we certainly hope that our conflicts around the world and we do our little piece to make sure that’s not the case.
But relative to emerging geographies I have talked about this actually for quite some time.
When we go back to the military market as the various U.S.
and European driven conflicts we are winding down.
I have talked a lot about the fact that we continue to see an offset to that overall reduction in the military spending environment from two areas.
One is the expansion of electronics in the military.
And we see that very much so much more electronic content even if it’s among a lower pool of spending and then in the second is those are merging geographies who continue to invest and continue to spend money on upgrading their military.
Obviously as an American company we are not going to do business with certain geographies they are places like China and Iran and obviously as the U.S.
company you don’t participate with those are all hand off but there are a lot of countries around the world were you do work and you do work with them and we have worked with them for many many many years.
I mean we have been in India for the better part of 43-years as the leader in the Indian military hardware.
We have been in Israel for around essentially the history of Israel and history of Amphenol places like Brazil places like Malaysia Singapore you name it there are many many places around the world who are actually increasing their degree of military spending and at the same time increasing the electronic component of that through – in order to modernize their militaries and that’s something that we continue to see we continue to have excellent presence in many of those place.
Many of those are also working through U.S.
manufactures of equipment or European manufactures of equipment.
So we get some benefit just through the traditional U.S.
and European defense manufactures but we also have a lot of presence direct with indigenous companies in all of those regions.
And I think the repetition that we have as really the world leader in this space.
The technology trends that are in this space also serves us very very well as we looked to capitalize on whatever growth opportunities there can be from these emerging geographies.
Inc.</strong>  Great thank you go much.
Thank you [Technical difficult] Amitabh Passi from UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Adam I had a couple of questions on a couple of your key markets.
First one automotive 18% year-over-year organic growth.
I think unit production growth is probably in the low maybe mid single-digits.
I think we all understand the content with story but I wanted to understand: are there other factors that play here? Maybe you are seeing a firmer pricing environment maybe you are gaining share.
Or do you think we have hit an inflection on just the rate at which content is growing in automotives that continues to propel this segment at a pretty stable rate particularly over the past few quarters?  Yes.
It’s a great question Amithab I mean we’re just very proud of the progress that we've made in the automotive market.
We just take historical perspective for Amphenol you may recall if we go back in a five five and half years ago automotive was I think Q1 of 2009 it was like 6% of our sales and now here it is 15% of our sale and that growth has come really from two parallel initiatives.
One is to develop new products that can capitalize on the expansion of electronic functionality in the car.
And so we've done that just so well getting in front of exhaust management drive a train onboard electronics Telematics infotainment you name it where we work very carefully and very closely with customers at all tiers in the automotive world to really help them to enable new systems.
It wasn’t necessarily that were taking share out of someone else’s hand it was that we were helping to enable new functionalities in the car with our existing capabilities to make strong interconnect products.
And sometimes these weren’t even just simple piece-part components but they were complex interconnect systems and that something from organic standpoint that we just done an outstanding job of.
And then in parallel we made some excellent acquisitions over that same time period where we have really broadened the range of products that we sell into cars around the world.
And then once we make those acquisitions but they don’t just joined the company and sort of stay in the static position forever we work with them to cross sell into customers to work with them to help to enable next-generation systems bringing together the technologies within our automotive group.
And I think those efforts all collectively have resulted in us achieving the results that you’ve seen for several years running and including this quarter I think 18% growth no matter how you slice it is outperforming the market organically by probably quite a wide margin.
And we believe that we have just laid a great platform here.
We are clearly not the leader in this space nor do we aspire to be the leader in this space.
But we want to be a stronger participant who works very much in those high value high technology in new electronics application.
And then just as a quick follow-up on your IT datacom segment.
I think for the past couple of quarters you had also started to talk about trying to diversify your customer base maybe serving some of the cloud service providers directly.
Where are we in that process? When do you think it starts to move the needle and maybe serve as an offset to some of the pressure you are seeing with your existing OEM customer base? Sure.
No it’s an excellent question and certainly this has been a big initiative for us for a quite some time.
I can tell you we have in our company a lot of operations who work with what I would call service providers.
And that is a really unique asset that we have in the company understanding how service providers work as opposed to how OEMs work.
They are extremely different in what they care about what their priorities are what the predictability of their spending patterns are.
But I think we have a great head start on that because of our kind of cultural awareness how to work with those companies and our ability to kind of tack differently and work with those customers when we have been so accustomed to working with the OEMs.
The IT market is very dynamic space.
You just got to look at few of the earnings releases that have come out recently and then you compare that to some of the earnings releases of service providers and look at the capital that they are spending there is a massive disconnect that is happening in that market.
And so there is no question that the success in the future is going to be tied very much to our success in broadening the customer base.
And I can tell you that we are doing a fabulous job of that so far.
It’s early days because I think the market is in flux somewhat.
So is that transition happened how the service providers to what degree do they take control of certain things? To what degree do they cede control to the traditional OEMs that whole lay of the land if you will is still very much in flux.
But however it shakes out we are going to be well positioned for the long-term.
Okay excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Mark Delaney from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
I appreciate the opportunity to ask a question.
On mobile devices can you talk about to what extent you have been able to capitalize on strong growth of 4G handsets in emerging markets? No no that’s an excellent question.
I think we don’t talk specifically about individual products but no doubt that next-generation whether that’s called 3G 4G LTE TD-LTE I am sure there’s other acronyms that I am missing here.
Those are clearly driving some of the growth in the overall space.
I think we – I mentioned in the past many times that when we working the mobile device market we work there with a very simple framework which is we are going to participate in those devices where there is value in our product and usually that translates into where there is value in the hardware.
I think what we have started to see.
In handsets in particular is certain companies who have realized that it is just not enough to put either an Android or a Windows operating system in your phone and sell it kind of in the blank box.
And that there is differentiation happening competitive differentiation happening among certain customers and that includes customers in less developed or emerging markets.
China is one place.
Whether China is emerging anymore I don’t know but certainly that one place where there is a lot of competition happening and where there are kind of domestic companies not the global name brands who are competing on the performance the functionality the use of the product relative to hardware not just the software.
And those are areas which have to potential at least to create for us an opportunity to expand our position.
So I think from that standpoint long-winded answer to the question I would say: Yes that’s create an opportunity.
Whether it is just 4G that I wouldn’t be so sure of.
But if there are new devices with new functionality then no doubt about it that can create for us an opportunity.
Understood.
Thank you for that.
For a follow-up question I am hoping you can elaborate a little bit more on some of the order trends.
You were already discussing the mobile networks and if you could discuss any differences you are seeing there between connectors and antennas and then what some of the underlying drivers of the trends are between units pricing or increased content per system.
Sure.
No I mean I’m not going to get into specifics about the various products that we sell into that market but I can tell you that we have a very broad offering and I think I mentioned in my early remarks that we’re very pleased with the growth across-the-board whether that is our direct sales of interconnect products to OEMs our sales to operators the both interconnect products as well as antennas.
We are very pleased with the contributions from all of those and I think we have a very balanced business across both the products as well as the channel the ultimate channel through which we sell our product and I think we have stronger order trends across-the-board.
The thing that is unique this year in the mobile infrastructure market besides just that the overall capital spending seems to be more favorable than it has been in several years past is that the fact that you are seeing growth and not insignificant growth on a global basis.
Not just concentrated in one or another of the various geographies.
And I think that is something that is unique.
I personally believe it is just because of consumer pressure that they want those devices to have fast video with no latency.
Now that they have TVs sitting in their hands they want to able to use this TVs that are in their hands; and that is putting a lot of pressure on operators on a global basis to be competitive.
And when you have one operator in one place just as well now I got the fastest LTE or 4G or whatever you call it immediately the other ones got to react or else they are going to start to lose customers and its expenses for them when they lose this customers.
So I think that has been a real tipping point with prevalence of the devices that now drives overall those investments.
And as it comes back to just our position we have just an outstanding and very broad technology position on interconnect products on antennas on cable assemblies on connectors RF fiber optics high speed you name it the full range of products that are used in these very advanced new system.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Wamsi Mohan from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you.
Good afternoon.
Adam you mentioned last quarter that you expected sequential ramps in the back half in mobile devices.
Clearly that is proving out to be a lot stronger now.
So would you characterize that the upside is coming from upside demand forecasts from programs that you were prior expected to drive that sequential strength? Or would you say these are completely new wins in products that you did not expect 90 days ago? And I have a follow-up.
Sure.
No thank you very much for the question Wamsi.
I just very simply would say it comes from a combination of all of that I think that we have better demand on existing and we have better expectations for some new product.
And that’s I think a very simple answer to the question.
Okay thanks Adam.
Can you remind us how much of your revenue goes through distribution now? And is there a plan to change your go-to-market for the sensor products? Are the system designers and buyers the same for the interconnect and sensor products or you need to built some infrastructure and change go-to-market for that? Thanks.
Sure.
No it’s an excellent question.
First relative to distribution it is about 12% of our sales goes through distribution.
We have no tops-down initiative to say.
Well now we got to change all of our channels relative to sensors or we got that take full advantage of whatever strength that we have.
Obviously to the extent that we have some customers or distributors who are interested now in the sensor products that we can offer simply because they are now part of Amphenol.
We are not going to led those opportunities go by the wayside.
So we will take advantage of them.
Relative to your question about inside the customers whether that is always the same person as I mentioned earlier I have gone to a number of customers since we have made the acquisition strong customers that we had previously as well as customers with whom the Advanced Sensors business is strong.
And I would tell you that it depends.
I think there are some customers where it is not at all the same people.
And I think in general the engineers are not the same people but ultimately from a procurement and strategic procurement standpoint it usually all ends up at one top of a pyramid.
The thing that I have seen and alluded to it earlier is even those engineers who let’s say are just sensor engineer or conversely are just an interconnect engineer it appears from my conversations with them that one of the greatest frustration those individual engineers have is the challenges that they face with the sort of corresponding technology.
So in other words you have an interconnect engineer who is having to design things for a system that incorporates a sensor he doesn’t really understand that sensor.
Now that you can come in as a company like we now can and sell that together with our sensors engineer our interconnect engineer you can really solve the big problem for that person because interestingly a lot of our customer are really big companies and they don’t necessarily communicate internally as well as we can necessarily communicate internally.
So you can help to actually bridge some of the gap in those challenges across the two portfolios.
We have seen the same in years past.
Antenna engineers don’t tend to be connector engineers and vice versa and that has served us extremely well as we have gone to customers to be able to solve that the comprehensive system problem that they face.
Thanks a lot Adam.
Well thank you very much Wamsi and I think we have no further questions.
So I would like to just take this opportunity to thank you all again for spending your time with us here today and hope it is not too late to wish that you have at least some degree of rest this summer for all of you on the phone today.
And we look forward to talking to you again here in about 3 months.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today’s conference and have a nice day.
Welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
My name is Diana Reardon and I am Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we would like to welcome you all to our third quarter earnings call Q3 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We'll then have a question and answer session.
Please note that all the share and per share amounts that we'll discuss today have been adjusted to reflect the company's 2-for-1 stock split that was effective earlier this month.
The company closed the third quarter with sales of $1.359 billion and EPS excluding onetime items of $0.58 achieving strong growth and new records of performance in both sales and earnings per share.
Sales were up 18% in US dollars and local currencies compared to Q3 of 2013.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency impacts sales in the quarter were up 11%.
Sequentially sales were up 3% in both US dollars and organically from Q2 of 2014 breaking down sales into our two major components.
Our cable business which comprised 7% of our sales was flat with last year.
The interconnect business which comprised 93% of our sales was up 19% from last year reflecting the benefits of both good organic growth and the company's successful acquisition program.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income excluding onetime items increased to $270 million in the quarter.
Operating margin excluding onetime items increased to 19.9% compared to 19.7% last year and 19.5% last quarter.
The sequential increase of 40 basis points in operating margins over the second quarter represents an excellent conversion margin on incremental sales of over 30%.
This strong performance resulted from an increase in operating margins in the interconnect business based on excellent operating execution and cost management on incremental sales volume.
From a segment perspective in the cable business margins were 12.5% down from 12.7% last quarter and 13.8% last year primarily due to the impact of market pricing and some impact from product mix.
In the interconnect business margins were 22.1% up from 21.6% last quarter and 22% last year.
We're very pleased with the company's operating margin achievement.
We continue to believe that the company's entrepreneurial operating structure and culture of cost control are a significant contributor to the company's excellent operating performance ensuring that the company's resources and cost structure are appropriately and quickly adjusted to maximize profitability in what continues to be a dynamic environment.
Through the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry leading operating margins and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
The company has recorded acquisition costs in both the current quarter and in last year's third quarter of approximately $2.5 million or $0.01 per share.
These costs include professional fees transaction taxes and other expenses relating to the acquisitions closed in the respective quarters.
In accordance with current accounting rules these costs are expensed as incurred.
In addition at this point we do anticipate approximately $6 million in onetime acquisition-related charges in the fourth quarter relating to the valuation of the acquired backlog of the Casco business as is required under U.S.
GAAP.
These onetime charges will be separately disclosed as is our practice and are not included in our guidance.
Interest expense for the quarter was $21 million compared to $16 million last year due to higher average debt levels resulting from the company's acquisition and stock buyback programs.
Other income was $4.7 million in the quarter up from $3.6 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income on higher levels of cash and short term cash investments.
The company's effective tax rate in the quarter was 26.5% compared to 25.5% last year both excluding onetime items.
On an as reported basis the company's effective tax rate was 26.8% this quarter and approximately 23.9% in last year's third quarter.
The 2013 rate included the impact of a net benefit of $3.6 million relating primarily to the completion of prior-year audits.
Net income excluding onetime items was approximately 14% of sales in Q3 and EPS before onetime items increased 18% from last year a very strong performance.
Orders for the quarter were $1.342 billion up 17% from last year resulting in a book-to-bill ratio in the quarter of approximately 0.99 to 1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash and had strong cash flow in the quarter of $224 million or approximately 122% of net income.
For the nine months operating cash flow was $607 million or 117% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
The company had good working capital management during the quarter.
Inventory was $848 million at the end of September up 2% from June excluding the impact from the Casco acquisition which was closed at the end of the quarter.
Inventory days also excluding the acquisition impact were 80 days down one day from June levels.
Accounts receivable was $1.1 billion at the end of September up 3% from June excluding acquisition impacts.
Days sales outstanding was 70 days and consistent with June levels accounts payable was $600 million at the end of the quarter up 8% from June levels excluding acquisition impacts and payable days were 56 days up two days compared to June.
The cash flow from operations along with our net proceeds from our senior note offerings of $745 million cash on hand of $192 million $41 million in proceeds from stock option exercises were used to purchase 3 million shares of the company's stock during the quarter for $151 million to fund net capital expenditures of $57 million.
We funded acquisition payments of $449 million in the quarter relating to the Casco acquisition and repaid $469 million under our revolving credit facility.
We also made $71 million in dividend payments during the quarter.
At the end of the quarter the company had 2.9 million shares remaining under its 20 million share stock repurchase program which expires in January of 2015.
As previously announced in September the company completed a $750 million note offering of three and seven-year notes.
The notes were issued at 99.9% of their respective face values and have interest rates of 1.55% and 3 1/8% respectively.
The company incurred fees of approximately $5 million in connection with the sale.
The notes were issued in anticipation of the company's upcoming debt maturity of its $600 million 4.75% notes which are due in mid-November.
At the end of September our cash and short term investments balance stood at $1.245 billion the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
Debt at the end of September was $2.6 billion bringing net debt to $1.35 billion.
At quarter-end borrowings and availability under the company's $1.5 billion revolving credit facility were $22 million and $1.48 billion respectively and EBITDA in the quarter was $307 million.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent quarter.
Before I turn the call over to Adam I would like to make a few comments relative to the guidance.
As noted in the press release we have increased our 2014 guidance by $50 million in sales and $0.03 in earnings at the low end and $30 million in sales and $0.02 in earnings at the high end.
The increase in guidance reflects the net positive impact of the addition of the Casco acquisition and a slight increase in organic sales which is partially offset by the translation impact of the significantly stronger dollar.
The Casco acquisition that closed at the end of the quarter adds about $55 million in sales and $0.02 in earnings.
The negative translation impact caused by the significant strengthening of the dollar towards the end of Q3 in relation to the euro and certain other currencies has the impact of reducing 2014 sales guidance by just under $30 million in sales and a $0.01 in earnings per share.
In addition organic revenue is up about $5 million versus prior guidance with stronger operating execution adding about $0.01 of earnings in the second half versus our prior guidance with Q3 slightly up and Q4 slightly below the prior expectations.
Our guidance for 2014 reflects a strong organic growth rate for the year of 7%.
I would also just note relative to the Q4 guidance that from a sequential standpoint at the high end of guidance sales are up 2% with the Casco acquisition increasing sales by 3% and the negative translation impact from the stronger dollar reducing sales by 1%.
From an organic standpoint Q4 sales are expected to be relatively flat which is down slightly from our prior guidance for Q4 but slightly better as I mentioned for the totality of the second half of 2014.
The flat sequential organic performance in Q4 results primarily from an expected 18% or so decline sequentially in the mobile network market based on an expected pause in spending in this market in both China and North America after a somewhat stronger than expected Q3.
The expected pause in spending in this market in the second half of 2014 is consistent with our prior expectations.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana and let me also add my welcome to all of you here on the phone today.
I'm going to spend a few moments to highlight our achievements in the third quarter.
As Diana mentioned I will then discuss our trends and progress across our served markets and I will just make some short comments on our outlook for the fourth quarter as well as for the full year.
With respect to the third quarter I can just tell you that we're very pleased to have reported new records in sales and EPS both of which exceeded the high end of our prior guidance.
Sales increased 18% from prior year and 3% sequentially establishing a new record for the company of $1.359 billion in sales.
As Diana mentioned orders also reached a new record of $1.342 billion.
We're very proud of our profitability in the quarter which was very strong as we generated excellent sequential conversion margins leading to an expansion of our already industry-leading operating margin to 19.9%.
And with our successful third quarter bond offering we once again reaffirmed the financial strength of Amphenol.
I can just tell you that I'm extremely proud of our global team who once again in the third quarter was able to react quickly to the many opportunities that are being created by the electronics revolution while continuing to exercise the discipline and drive necessary to achieve outstanding operating performance.
Our record results in this third quarter clearly demonstrate the benefits of Amphenol's entrepreneurial culture.
As we already announced early in the quarter we're very pleased to have completed at the end of the quarter the previously announced acquisition of Casco Automotive Group which was completed at the very end of the third quarter.
Casco is a global manufacturer of highly engineered data connectivity power charging and sensor products to the worldwide automotive market with annual sales of approximately $220 million a very significant acquisition for us and really one of the three largest that we've made in our history.
Importantly Casco represents a significant new platform for future expansion for the company; in particular as we now have a leading position in automobile in-cabin data and power interconnect as well as an expanded range of sensor products.
We are very excited to welcome the outstanding Casco team to Amphenol and we look forward to continuing to create value in the future with our very successful acquisition program.
Now turning to the trends in our served markets I just want to mention that once again we're very pleased that our balanced and broad end-market diversification supported very clearly the company's strong performance in the third quarter.
We're particularly pleased that no single market represented more than 17% of our total sales in the quarter a great confirmation of the balance across markets that we participate in.
Now turning to the individual markets the military market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased 7% from prior year and 3% from prior quarter on stronger sales of products into military aircraft engine communications ordinance and avionics.
We're especially encouraged that after essentially six quarters of year-over-year declines in the military market in the third quarter.
We were able to deliver strong performance despite continuing downward pressure on overall military budgets.
Looking towards the fourth quarter we expect demand to continue to grow somewhat from these levels on increased volumes of new programs on which we have higher content.
While military budgets overall are clearly not expanding our technology leadership and broad program participation has enabled us to realize the growth that we experienced in the third quarter and has allowed us to benefit long term from the expanding adoption of electronics and military hardware as well as from stronger spending trends that we see in emerging geographies.
The commercial aerospace market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter sales increased a strong 16% from prior year and declined seasonally as we had expected by roughly 6%.
Our year-over-year growth was driven by benefits from last year's Ionix acquisition together with our increasing content on new programs which continue to ramp towards volume production.
For the fourth quarter we expect demand to essentially remain at these levels and we retain a positive outlook for the commercial air market in 2014 and beyond.
We're very pleased that we're now realizing the benefits from our long standing efforts to gain position on the latest generation of airliners.
As airlines continue to demand planes that are more fuel efficient and that create a better flying experience for the traveling public aircraft manufacturers are adopting complex new technologies on their next-generation airliners.
This is creating an exciting long-term opportunity for Amphenol.
The industrial market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter.
We once again achieved extremely strong sales growth in the industrial market of 44% driven by contributions from the Advanced Sensors acquisition completed at the end of last year as well as by a very robust 18% organic growth in the industrial market.
In fact sales increased 3% sequentially in a quarter that would normally be seasonally softer.
Our excellent organic growth was driven by strength in the medical rail mass transit and oil and gas segments in particular which again is a clear confirmation of the value of our diversification strategy across the industrial market.
Looking towards the fourth quarter we expect our sales to remain at these high levels and we look forward to continued progress as we broaden our interconnect and sensor technology offering while increasing our penetration of the many exciting growth areas of the industrial market.
The automotive market represented 15% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased significantly from prior year growing also by 44% and a very strong 21% organically.
As we continue to benefit from the diverse range of new sensor and infotainment automotive products provided by our acquisitions last fourth quarter of Advanced Sensors and Tecvox and as we continue to grow our sales of new products (indiscernible) and emissions management as well as drivetrain control among other applications.
Our sales in the market grew by 3% sequentially even with the impact of a typical third quarter seasonality.
We're very proud that we're outgrowing the overall automotive electronics market and really by a wide margin as we're capitalizing on our broadened suite of interconnect and sensor technologies which are being incorporated into a wide array of new and complex vehicle electronics.
Now with the addition of Casco we have further expanded our product offering and are positioned in several new high growth applications within the car including data and power connectivity as well as temperature sun and rain sensors.
Casco also strengthens our position with a diverse set of highly complementary vehicle manufacturers thereby bolstering our overall position in the automotive interconnect and sensor market.
Looking towards the fourth quarter we expect a significant increase from these sales levels as we benefit from the contributions of Casco and we look forward to an overall excellent 2014 and beyond for our rapidly expanding automotive business.
The mobile devices market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased as we had expected by a robust 13% from prior year and 14% sequentially driven by higher demand essentially across all mobile device product types.
Once again our mobile device team was able to quickly flex our production resources to capitalize on increased volume requirements from our customers demonstrating that our organizational agility remains a core advantage of Amphenol in this very dynamic end market.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect sales to grow further from these levels as we benefit from a range of new program launches.
We remain confident that despite the ever-changing landscape in the mobile device market our leading technology our preferred supplier relationships with the broadest range of device makers as well as most importantly the excellent execution of our outstanding agile organization positions us well for the future in this exciting market.
The mobile networks market represented 12% of our sales in the quarter and we continue to support significantly higher levels of demand for wireless network build outs in the quarter with sales increasing a stronger than expected 38% from prior year.
This was driven by growth in both OEM and service provider sales essentially across all major geographies.
While we had anticipated some sequential slowdown in sales going into the third quarter our sales actually grew slightly from the second quarter.
Consistent with our prior expectations of a somewhat lower second half compared to the first half and as Diana mentioned earlier we now expect a roughly 18% sequential reduction of sales in the fourth quarter as operators around the world are planning a moderation of their recently strong build out activities.
Regardless of this end-of-the-year pause in activity levels we're very pleased with our overall performance in the mobile networks market in the full year of 2014 and we remain extremely confident that with our industry-leading breadth of interconnect as well as antenna products.
We will continue to participate broadly in ongoing next generation mobile network deployment around the world.
We look forward to further building on this excellent platform in the long term.
The information technology and data communications market represented 16% of our sales in the quarter as we had expected sales decreased by 6% from prior year due to lower levels of sales of products that are incorporated in particular into networking equipment.
Sequentially our sales increased slightly from the second quarter as stronger growth in storage and servers was almost all offset by lower sales of networking related products.
Given the continued uncertainties in the IP datacom market in particular related to networking equipment we do expect a slight moderation of sales in the fourth quarter and we continue to anticipate sales to be slightly down for the full year in this market consistent with our prior guidance.
While there are no doubt a great deal of changes occurring in the IT datacom world we remain encouraged by our industry-leading high speed and power products.
Our preferred relationships with leading equipment suppliers as well as our enhanced focus on service provider and data center customers all of which are creating a platform for us to outperform in the future in this important market.
The broadband market represented 7% of our sales in the quarter and sales declined slightly from prior year on a moderation of spending from U.S.
cable operators and were essentially flat to the second quarter.
Looking out towards the fourth quarter we expect a slight reduction in demand which is due to normal year-end seasonality in this space.
Although the demand and pricing environment for traditional bulk cable continues to be challenging we are seeing still the emerging benefits of our product and customer diversification and ultimately.
Our future success in this market rests on the company's proven capability to create innovative solutions for our customers to support the rapid growth in high speed data delivery.
As we drive further efforts to create these enabling technologies.
We look forward to maintaining our leading position in the broadband market.
So in summary with respect to the third quarter I can just tell you very simply put I'm extremely proud of the Amphenol organization as once again we executed so well in a challenging and dynamic market environment.
Our performance in 2014 so far has been a clear reflection of our distinct competitive advantages our leading technology our increasing position with customers across our diverse array of markets our worldwide presence and our lean and flexible cost structure.
But above all these strengths our greatest asset remains our high performance culture that is reinforced every single day by Amphenol's agile and entrepreneurial management team.
Now turning to the outlook and Diana has already spoken at length about this but let me just say that based on stable economic conditions as well as on constant exchange rates including the impact of the relatively weaker overseas currencies that we now see -- we now expect in the fourth quarter and the full year 2014 the following results.
We expect sales in the range of $1.341 billion to $1.381 billion in the fourth quarter and $5.260 billion to $5.3 billion for the full year respectively and we expect EPS for the fourth quarter and full year in the range of $0.58 to $0.60 and $2.20 to $2.22 respectively.
For the full year this represents both sales and EPS growth excluding onetime items of a very strong 14% to 15%.
We’re very encouraged by our continued strong outlook in sales and earnings especially given the many uncertainties that are clearly present in the global marketplace.
The ongoing revolution in electronics is continuing to create tremendous opportunities for Amphenol and I am confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities both to grow our market position and to expand our profitability and thereby to drive continued superior performance for Amphenol.
Thank you very much and at this time operator we would be happy to take any questions that there may be.
Two questions for me.
Maybe to start with Adam in the press release you talked about seeing some increased level of uncertainty on a geopolitical basis.
I'm actually struggling to understand where in your guide are you factoring this in other than the mobile networks which I realize is down a fair amount.
But if I look at all the other segments kind of flat to up a little almost.
Can you maybe just talk about where are you seeing these uncertainties? Where do you see a downtick from order pattern across these end markets? First of all let me say that the level of uncertainty in the marketplace -- we’re not seeing anything different than anybody else is seeing in the newspaper.
You read anything and there is certainly a more complex array of incidences and circumstances around the market and I think that's reflected in some of the movements you see in things like exchange rates and interest rates that clearly have moved more significantly in the quarter than anybody would have anticipated three months ago.
Look we give a range for our guidance and we always do that.
But as you know we certainly always strive to get to the top end of that range and that's certainly the goals that we have within the company.
But to the extent that we show a range one could anticipate that if there were greater accelerating problems that's why we have a low end of such a range and I think it's not necessarily that we're seeing specific things coming from customers but rather that there just appears to be as indicated by some of these movements a greater level of uncertainty around the world and that is whether it is political whether that is economic or whatever that is you see a flight to quality as evidenced in particular by the strength of the dollar and the interest rates today.
And then just on the mobile devices you obviously had a nice Q3 but how do we think about the growth in Q4? Because I was looking at the last five years and it's gone from as good as plus 30% to as bad as 20%.
I know you said you expect growth but is there a way to think about what do you think seasonal growth is? Is it low teens again in December and is it more tablet centric or more broad based this time around? Let me just put this in some perspective.
We had excellent performance here in the third quarter growing 13% year-over-year 14% sequentially and as I mentioned we expect that to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter.
I think we would expect that kind of (indiscernible) high single-digits sequentially.
If you put that in perspective compared to last year in the second half this year our growth is essentially going to be somewhere around the low 20% growth second half to first half and that's essentially what we saw also last year.
And you may also recall that last year in the fourth quarter we had a very significant uptick in demand which was essentially us picking up market share when others could not support the demands of certain new program ramps for customers.
So we actually think that our performance this year in mobile devices is very consistent with prior years and very consistent with what we see in the marketplace where you have clearly a wide array of different results and expectations among customers but our strong growth here across all the product lines that we're participating in.
Again to grow by more than 20% second half to first half and to grow in the third quarter by 13% is we think not only consistent but a very strong reflection of our excellent position in that mobile devices market.
Just backing up on some of the acquisitions that you've done this year Adam I was curious especially around the GE business and some of the momentum you're seeing in auto could you talk about how you've been able to leverage the acquisition into those end markets how it's translating into organic sales growth now? And then what those deals are doing in terms of adding to earnings for the full year? And then I had a follow-up.
Thanks.
Well I will talk a little bit about the leverage and then I will let Diana comment to some extent on how those are contributing.
But let me just say that we're so happy with the Advanced Sensors acquisition and I think that's the one you mentioned.
Obviously we did five acquisitions last year four of them completed in the fourth quarter that included Advanced Sensors and Tecvox to name two and we're just very very pleased in particular with Advanced Sensors.
As we've talked about from the day that that company joined Amphenol it's a fabulous company from numerous respects.
Number one great technology and I think now as we're coming upon soon the first year anniversary of that company joining Amphenol we feel even stronger about the value of the technology of the company across the range of sensors that they supply because it is a very diversified company.
I think the second thing that we talked a lot about was the fact that it is a very diversified company about 2/3rds of the sales in industrial and 1/3rd in automotive but within those markets has a very very diversified array of applications and then customers from medical heavy equipment to advanced smart building Internet of Things type applications and then within the car from pressure and temperature CO2 and all of those type of sensing applications.
And all that I can tell you is again our great expectations have been really surpassed in terms of the depth that that brings us with the customers.
I myself have been to a number of these customers over the course of the year and in each time I go to those customers you hear a very common refrain and that is that the challenges that the customers are experiencing relative to sensors very frequently revolve around the mechanical interface of the connector and how to integrate that sensor into the interconnect system that then allows that to perform its desired functionality.
Again that was our theory going into it more than a theory actually that we felt was true but that has been truly confirmed as we go on.
Now let me say things don't happen overnight.
Rome was clearly not built in a day in terms of leveraging the typical things that people talk about synergies and all of that but we are getting leverage.
We're getting leverage at customers who now see us as a broader supplier.
We're getting penetration at customers with whom we previously had maybe a smaller presence and today now we're viewed as a more broad strategic partnership where our access to decision-makers in those customers is greater than it was before and conversely the Advanced Sensors business gets viewed now under -- in the kind of patina of an Amphenol who is known as a powerful and leading component supplier as opposed to sort of a company within a big conglomerate like a GE that really was viewed as an adjunct to their core business.
And I think all of that together has acted to create really a truly fabulous first year and the honeymoon has certainly not ended yet for us in Advanced Sensors.
And Steven in terms of the impact of the acquisitions on a year-over-year basis if we look at the high end of guidance our sales growth is expected to be about 15%.
About 8% or so is the contribution from the acquisition program on the top line and I would say it's a little bit less than that from a bottom-line perspective but certainly a very strong contribution all the way around from the program in 2014.
Then just a quick follow-up.
In terms of two of the markets auto and industrial and I think you touched on this a little bit in just what you talked about Adam but those two markets seem to be drawing more attention relative to some of the geopolitical concerns in Europe.
Can you just give us a base case for how you see those markets right now and whether you're more concerned about end demand or how maybe you're able to overcome it a little bit more given some of these acquisitions? Thanks a lot.
Again thank you very much.
I think relative to Europe clearly I've been in Europe a couple times in the last month and you don't want to read the paper if you want to have a smile on your face.
But I can tell you that our team has executed fabulously in Europe and in fact if I look at our performance by region truly in local currency and organically however you want to look at it Europe was actually our fastest-growing region in the quarter on a year-over-year basis.
So clearly the Amphenol team is not putting their head in the sand after reading every morning the Financial Times or Le Monde or Der Spiegel or whatever that is going to be.
So I think from that standpoint we are doing outstanding in that space compared to what the overall macro is performing.
And I think there's no doubt about it; our strength in industrial and automotive as well as in commercial air which is another space where we do have more business in Europe and mobile infrastructure our teams there have just done an outstanding job at executing on the opportunities at hand and then refocusing the resources towards those places where there is growth opportunity because regardless of what happens in the macro environment the electronics revolution is continuing without missing a beat.
You've just got to find where that is and I think our ongoing strategy of diversification in particular in the industrial market the automotive market I mean these are areas where we're constantly plumbing for new places where technology is taking hold and not trying to take share from others but trying to enable something that is new.
And I think that has been really the recipe that we have followed.
In Europe we follow it obviously on a global basis but I think the impact of it compared to the macro indicators is certainly magnified in Europe to the positive for Amphenol.
I'm just wondering again about mobile devices.
Obviously there was some very strong demand at some large OEMs recently and perhaps even a surprise in mix shift towards larger phones at one major OEM.
I'm just wondering if you could comment on leadtime or supply chain dynamics mobile devices.
Is there any potential for double ordering tightness in supply chain and perhaps also what are the key puts and takes that we might think about entering into Q1 seasonality? Thanks.
Sure.
Let me answer the last part which is it's too early to say about Q1.
I think we're not in a position yet especially in a market like mobile devices where visibility is not necessarily the longest in that space.
I can't tell you that we have seen ourselves any double ordering or tightening of supply chain.
Obviously we're making certain products antennas and interconnect products and we certainly ourselves don't have any tightening of our supply chains and we are more than able to satisfy very quickly our customers.
And that has been a real hallmark and a benchmark of Amphenol for a long time.
Again I mentioned earlier in the call last year in the fourth quarter when we had sort of a real unexpected uptick in demand and we were able to do that really flawlessly when our competitors were not.
So I think from that standpoint we are not stretching leadtimes.
We are not a bottleneck and to the extent that customers can take more we will be there to support them with that.
Otherwise what other components are doing relative to that I can't tell you that I have great visibility on it.
Diana my first question was for you.
I was curious how are you thinking about OpEx into the calendar fourth quarter particularly now with the integration of Casco? Sure.
I think that you probably saw in the financials in Q3 that we had a good performance in terms of operating costs or SG&amp;A in Q3 and they've now come kind of back down to the level they were at last year at that time.
We had some increase in the first quarter when the Advanced Sensors acquisition came in as they were running at a higher level but I think they've started to manage some of those expenses down.
I think as we look into Q4 I would expect kind of a normal Amphenol pattern where we would see less SG&amp;A growth from a percentage standpoint than we would see in sales growth.
And I think that the Casco acquisition has a cost structure that I would say more mirrors our own so I wouldn't expect any significant impact there.
Okay.
And it seems like the last couple of quarters you've had an attractive conversion margin of greater than 30%.
I'm just wondering do you think that's sustainable over the next couple of quarters particularly as you continue to integrate and optimize the sensors business or do you think you revert back towards the mid-20%s target? I'm just trying to get some rough sense of how we think about what you're seeing in conversion margins which has been quite attractive the last couple of quarters.
Sure.
I guess I would say two things.
One is our long-term goal is still 25% and to your point we have been doing better than that the last couple of quarters.
There have been a number of factors contributing to that.
Certainly very good operating execution across the company.
I think in this quarter we'll also start to see some impact as the acquisitions come closer to the average of the company so we have a lot of good strong contributions going on there.
I think that when you look at Q4 the sales volume as I said when I walked through the guidance in the prepared remarks the incremental sequential sales growth is really coming from the Casco acquisition with some offset from the foreign currency translation.
So as we look there we wouldn't expect because of the components of the sales change for that to be at that high conversion margin level.
We would expect more ROS in Q4 to probably be closer to that Q3 level.
And as we look into next year and give guidance for next year when we close the fourth quarter I think we will talk more about what to expect at that point.
But I think I can tell you that our 25% conversion margin goal certainly still remains the goal for the management team.
The first just being on mobile networks it looks that the absolute dollar level of sales for this year is probably in line with maybe where you previously guided.
It's just the shape of the back half is different.
Is that true? And second within that is it just a pause in spending? Did you see was it more of a pull-ahead and does this in any way impact your view on 2015 and what could be another good year for the mobile networks business in 2015? I think you correctly characterize if we think about how we had guided to the mobile infrastructure market going forward we had said that we would expect the market to be somewhat down in the second half compared to the first half.
Our Q3 sales were a little bit higher than expected and thus I think the fourth quarter is maybe a little bit more of a drop-off than we would have expected coming from the third quarter.
But if you look at it first half to second half based on our outlook it would be down 1% or 2% in the second half to the first half which I think on any industry comparable basis is a very very strong performance.
And when we think about the performance this year we expect still to be up in that market and kind of the mid-20% range.
Again very very strong performance and much stronger than you see in kind of the OEM reports that are available and I think it compares very favorably on any peer basis.
What does that mean the fourth quarter relative to looking out into next year? We have not given guidance about next year but I don't think that our change in guidance here would change any degree our outlook long term in the market.
We have an outstanding position.
I think one thing that has been very favorable for us this year has been that regardless of what spending happens we have demonstrated this year to our customers that when they need us we are there for them.
With very strong upticks in demand -- you may recall in the second quarter we had just an outstanding second-quarter sequential growth somewhere close to I believe 20% quarter-to-quarter and to react so quickly as we were able to do when our customers needed it that is something that they don't forget going forward.
In particular in this market where oftentimes you're not talking about factories you're talking really about crews in the field waiting for parts.
And you don't want to be the guy who is holding those crews up in the field waiting for parts and we have never been and in fact we've just executed so well in that strong growth this year that whatever happens in the overall spending market I think our position and our ability to capture more than our fair share of that going forward has been very much confirmed this year and will create a great platform for us in the future.
Okay and then a brief follow-up.
It's not part shortages holding anything up right now and then just on Casco that $0.02 of accretion for the fourth quarter should we expect that to normalize to maybe like a $0.03 plus range as we head into 2015 per quarter? I'll answer about -- there was not a parts shortage if that's what you're asking relative to mobile devices.
There's no impact.
It's just in the quarter we see somewhat less buildout activity and I'll let Diana talk about Casco.
Sure.
I think that the $0.02 in the fourth quarter is within a margin of what we would expect to see in 2015.
I think we're not giving guidance for next year yet and we don't ordinarily specifically call out EPS contribution from individual acquisitions.
I did it in this case; I thought it would be helpful because we had a lot of moving parts in the guidance.
But I don't think the $0.02 would be misrepresentative of the level that we would see next year.
I think that you or maybe Adam you said that growth in the fourth quarter on an organic basis is probably about flat.
I wanted to understand if that is more sort of a timing issue.
I think you said for the full year you expect to grow revenue about 7% on an organic basis but wanted to think about your views of organic growth going forward and if you still think you can grow 2X the market? Sure.
Maybe just to say the numbers and then maybe Adam can talk about the growth versus the market but that flat organic growth I was talking about was the sequential performance between Q3 and Q4.
If we look at on a year-over-year basis which is what the 7% for the full-year is year-over-year in the fourth quarter from an organic standpoint is somewhere in the sort of the 3% range and it is somewhat impacted by the fact that while the mobile device market is growing sequentially between Q3 and Q4 on a year-over-year basis we did have a huge fourth quarter in 2013 for the reasons that Adam already described and so that does have some impact in terms of the year-over-year organic growth discreetly in the fourth quarter.
And Sherri relative to our target and history long history of outperforming the market and really growing at 2 times the market we continue to have a great degree of conviction around our ability to do that and we believe not only do we have the ability but we've really built the platform to do that going forward.
Ultimately what is the market growing that we'll only be able to assess when the dust has settled on 2014.
But I think this year our performance is really outstanding given this guidance that we have and we continue to look forward to pursuing and achieving on that 2 times the market goal going forward.
And then Diana you gave some detail on the impact of the stronger dollar relative to foreign currencies in the fourth quarter and just wanted to understand how much will that continue into 2015 and is it sort of the same magnitude as the fourth quarter? Thanks.
Sure.
When we would look at 2015 if rates stay roughly where they are we would expect it could be something like a 1% year-over-year drag from a translation perspective if that helps.
One question and one follow-up first I want to just ask a follow-up on the wireless infrastructure business.
There has been pretty widespread understanding that there have been some component shortages not from Amphenol but in the RF power amp area that have caused some other companies to have kind of inconsistent results in this market.
So I'm wondering if you see this as more of a pause in buildout by the carriers or is this an inventory adjustment by the equipment vendors and then I had a balance sheet question as well.
It's very true.
I think in the first half of the year there were these component shortages and you correctly point out I mean what we hear also related to RF power amps in particular.
I don't know whether there were others but the RF power amp was certainly something that was widely discussed in the industry.
And I think we talked about last quarter and even before that because of that we probably would have anticipated this year the second half to be even more down compared to the first half.
But they were not able many of our customers to truly get the build rates of the base stations up because they didn't have these -- they were missing these components.
And I think from that perspective that's one of the factors that allows -- in our second half we're down only really by about 1% or 1.5% compared to the first half.
Otherwise that could have been a more significant falloff in demand as there really was quite a wave of buildout happening that was intended at least to happen in the first half.
None of those -- I have not heard recently that those component shortages are continuing.
I think there's a relatively normal degree of demand.
Whether there was double ordering of those components or whatnot I mean we're not close enough to really judge.
Now one thing to understand is we're shipping -- some portion of our business in mobile infrastructure goes to OEMs but another portion and really a roughly equal size goes direct to service providers.
And so when we're selling to service providers you don't really have inventory corrections per se.
That's much more in a real almost just-in-time delivery where they say we're going to have a crew there in a week and we need your parts there also on that same week.
And from that standpoint you don't get those inventory bubbles that you can get more related to a traditional OEM manufacturing process.
And the follow-up maybe Diana for you capital expenditures as a percent of revenue has been a bit elevated and it was again this quarter and I'm wondering if that's related to Sidney.
I thought that that had been already kind of resolved and built out.
Maybe there's something else going on.
Thank you.
Sure.
Actually you're correct; it has been higher for the last few quarters.
And in this third quarter there was the last of the spending relating to the project that you mentioned where we were building a new facility to replace the flood-damaged one from a couple years back.
So we have been spending more at 4% of sales over the last few quarters in order to accommodate that additional spending.
We would expect the spending to come down in the fourth quarter to a more normal level and would expect the same as we move into 2015 and that normal level would be somewhere in the 3% 3.5% of sales range.
Adam and Diana to you and your team there at Amphenol.
When we look at your recent acquisitions I think it's fair to say they're kind of going as an extension so to speak beyond your traditional cable and connector business when we start talking about sensors and all this.
And then when we did some work looking at the industry of sensors it actually looks like sensors are more profitable than traditional connectors.
So is it fair to say that there is a chance that these recent acquisitions could actually be accretive to your companywide margins and if not maybe is there something wrong with my logic or what I see in the sensor industry versus connectors? I think it's very true.
I mean we have been over the last essentially three years we've now made 11 acquisitions and of those two of them have a sensor component.
One was the Advanced Sensors business that we acquired close to a year ago which was exclusively sensors and then we acquired here Casco which has a sensor productline as well as their interconnect productline.
I think the sensor market is for us one that we feel very good about because of its wonderful leverage that you can get between the sensor and the interconnect product combined with its great diversification.
Much as we love so much the diversification of the interconnect market we feel the same way about the diversification within the sensor market.
Now are sensors by definition more profitable than connectors? I wouldn't necessarily say that.
I think there have been examples in the sensor industry of some who make more money and some who make less.
I think when we acquired the Advanced Sensors business we did talk about the fact that at the time we acquired it that company was operating at a level that was meaningfully below our corporate average and that we certainly had the aspiration and the goal to bring it up to our corporate average over time.
Is there something empirically different about sensors that means you can make more money than connectors? I don't know that that is true but I do know that there's certainly at least the equal opportunity to make great returns in the sensor market because at the end of the day we're able to make our fabulous returns into the interconnect market by enabling the technologies of our customers by creating for them something that ultimately makes their system perform better either have a better performance be able to sell more of them get a better marketshare whatever they can do with their end equipment.
And I think sensors have very much the same property to them.
You embed technology in the sensors and that is either with the sensing element or very interestingly you embed the technology in the packaging of the interconnect.
And by embedding that technology which creates value for the end customer you're thereby able to charge a price that allows you to make a fair return on that business.
And so to that standpoint we certainly feel that the sensor market has at least as good of an opportunity to make the returns that we like to make and we'll see over time whether it's better than we think.
And a quick follow-up for Diana.
Diana for currency changes is it mostly like the euro or the yen or what particular denomination should we be most mindful of because someday down the road I'm sure currencies will change a little bit again? Sure.
The euro would be the biggest one that would have an impact on us.
Others have some impact as well but they are smaller.
In terms of going back to automotive.
21% organic growth is very impressive and significant outgrowth.
You've called out some synergies from Advanced Sensors.
My understanding of the automotive business there's typically very long leadtimes to get on programs before you actually get those synergies.
Can you talk about how you're getting them so quickly and with Casco would that be the similar type of immediate synergies? Thank you very much.
I think again we're very pleased with this 21% organic growth.
I don't think I attributed that growth necessarily to these so-called synergies between the sensors and the connectors.
Even if we have actually started to see some early opportunities a little bit even quicker than we expected them to leverage a connector in a sense or in a single application but clearly that's not the main driver or even a significant driver of the 21% growth.
The 21% growth is really coming from new applications in the car and when we look at these applications -- again I mentioned a few -- emissions telematics drivetrain control things like antilock braking.
Essentially where ever you see in a car new electronic functionality that maybe was not there in the past those are the type of systems that are really creating this outsized growth for us.
So again this is not us just capturing a marketshare from an incumbent on something that is there already; it is us working long term and this is over many many years of effort to work to design in on new applications as you correctly point out over a relatively long cycle time and you see those new programs and those new functionalities and those new feature sets in the car starting to roll out.
And I think the one thing that I would say is that the automakers around the world they have clearly woken up to the fact that electronics helps them make money number one and sell more cars number two.
And so I think that cycle of implementation of electronics into cars -- if anything that cycle is compressing to a shorter cycle than the traditional sort of platform cycles that you see in the automotive industry.
You have really what I would almost call mid-platform upgrades that happen on things like lighting systems and infotainment systems and otherwise new things like LEDs in the car and all of that.
I think these are all the areas where our team is heavily focused both in the short and the long term to make sure that we're participating at more than our fair share of those applications.
Great.
And just to be thorough the only area I don't think we discussed is just the decline recently into metals like silver and gold to a lesser extent.
Can you comment on what you'd expect to happen on the pricing erosion side going forward? From a pricing erosion standpoint I think that we put the guidance together based on the costs that we see at the particular time.
I think as we've talked before we do certainly a great job from an operating management standpoint to maximize overall profitability in the company and that's the combination of managing sales price and then managing cost and from a cost perspective the current environment is certainly better relative to the trends in commodities than what we've seen in a few of the prior years but we certainly wouldn't expect any particular windfall from any specific metal.
The company uses a lot of different metals a lot of different plastics and I think does a very good job of really getting the most bang for the buck from a profitability perspective.
And I think you've seen two really strong quarters of excellent conversion margin here during 2014.
We hit 19.9% ROS in the quarter and so we're really very pleased with the profitability performance of the company and the team is very committed as we look out into the future to continuing to work towards a 25% conversion margin goal and certainly good procurement practices is part of that but there are many different factors that go into achieving that kind of profitability at the end of the day.
I was hoping you could help me understand the reason for the softness in the networking portion of your IT segment and then how we should think about that as we go into 2015.
Thank you very much.
I think -- I talked about the fact that in the IT datacom market there is clearly a lot of dislocation happening and change happening in that market.
And I'm sure you know as well as I do some of the macro factors that are happening there the rise of data centers and web service providers the challenges that many companies are facing in other markets including places for example like China where for a wide range of call them political considerations certain legacy suppliers are having more trouble to sell in particular their core networking equipment into those spaces.
And so for whatever reason it is I think there has clearly been some moderation of the sales of these networking equipment.
But look at the end of the day that is not going to be a perpetual situation because those are the equipment this networking equipment and the IT which is really forming the backbone of the Internet and the data rates that are going that we see the expansion of data rates that we see in our server and our storage business and that we see in particular with these new LTE and 3G networks that are being built up over the course of -- in the wireless market these things are creating tremendous end demand for data that ultimately is going to flow through these core networks and through the switches and the routers and all of those things that drive the core networks.
And ultimately will create let me just call it more of a pent-up demand for that equipment.
It actually reminds me somewhat of -- for a number of years we saw in the mobile infrastructure market not great spending trends and over that time there was that pent-up demand that grew and grew and ultimately developed into real demand.
And whether that will happen in networking equipment and whether there will be that kind of real demand that comes as a result of this pent-up demand that I can't tell you and I can't certainly predict what is the timing of that.
But I think the empirical requirements of data on the network those are not changing.
And now it relates to us and if I look at our position and our position really on a global basis with customers who are creating that next-generation networking equipment we have a position that is truly second to none.
And that starts with our high-speed products and those high-speed products which are really enabling the highest level of data transport through these systems.
It goes to our power products.
It goes to our fiber optics and others and the real broad suite of products that we supply into high-end IT datacom no doubt about it even if there is that kind of pause this year in that -- due to the changes that are happening in that market our position long term with our high technology products is really second to none.
I appreciate the context there.
For a follow-up question I'm hoping you can help me think about the capital allocation strategy going forward.
This year the company has done some larger acquisitions in GE Advanced Sensors in Casco.
You also stepped up the buyback a little bit this quarter and did the nice job buying back 3 million shares.
Should we expect going forward that the company is planning to be a little bit more aggressive on the capital allocation strategy there in terms of the size of the potential companies you may tuck in or the way you're thinking about doing the buyback or is this just you had a couple of larger deals that came to fruition as you executed upon those? Look I think the company has had a very consistent strategy for many years relative to the deployment of the financial strength and the prioritization there clearly is towards the acquisition program which we believe provides the company with the best long-term return both from a growth and profitability perspective.
We do also though feel that a balance is important and I think whether or not you look at the last five years you look at this year you look at last year I think what you see is really quite some balance if you would look at the free cash flow of the company with about half going back to shareholders in various forms and the other half being deployed towards the acquisition program.
I think as Adam has said on many occasions the size of the acquisitions is not really the important criteria as far as we're concerned; it's much more about the fit from a technology standpoint about the strength of the management team about the potential that we see for both top and bottom-line growth.
So we would certainly if there was an appropriate acquisition that fit all of those criteria that was bigger that would be something that we would prioritize that financial strength towards because as I said before we do feel as a management team that that's what makes the most sense for the company.
So I think what you'll see us continue to do as we look into the future is to continue to have a balanced approach but certainly to err on the side of funding the acquisition program as those opportunities present themselves.
Well thank you very much and I'd like to thank all of you for spending some time with us today on what is here in New England a blustery fall day and we certainly appreciate all of your attention and I hope it's not too early as we will not speak to you until next year to wish all of you a great holiday season and a successful fourth quarter.
Thank you again and we'll talk to you in January.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Hello and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
Following today’s presentation there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
Until then all lines will remain on the listen-only mode.
At the request of the company today’s conference is being recorded.
If anyone has objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today’s conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma’am you may begin.
Thank you.
My name is Diana Reardon and I am Amphenol’s CFO.
I am here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we would like to welcome everyone to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Q4 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We will then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the fourth quarter with sales of $1.427 million and EPS excluding one-time items of $0.63 beating the high-end of the company’s guidance and achieving new records of performance in both sales and earnings per share.
Sales were up 15% in U.S.
dollars and 17% in local currencies compared to Q4 of 2013.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency effects sales in Q4 were up 7%.
From a sequential standpoint sales were up 5% in U.S.
dollars and 3% organically from Q3.
Breaking down sales into our two major components: our cable business which comprised 6% of our sales was up 3% from last year; our interconnect business which comprised 94% of our sales was up 15% from last year reflecting the benefits of both good organic growth and the company’s acquisition program.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
For the full year sales were $5.346 billion up 16% in U.S.
dollars and 8% organically over 2013 a very strong performance.
Operating income excluding one-time items increased to $288 million in the quarter.
Operating margin also excluding one-time items increased to 20.2% in Q4 compared to 19.7% last year and 19.9% last quarter.
This represents the third consecutive quarter of ROS improvement in 2014.
The sequential increase of 30 basis points in operating margin over the third quarter and the achievement in the quarter of a new record ROS of 20.2% resulted from an increase in operating margins in our interconnect business.
From a segment perspective in the cable segment margins were 12.1% down from 12.5% last quarter and 12.2% last year primarily due to the impact of market pricing and some impact from product mix.
In our interconnect business margins increased to 22.4% up 30 basis points from last quarter and 60 basis points from last year.
We are very very pleased with the company’s operating margin achievement both with the full year achievement of 19.6% excluding one-time items which reflects the impact earlier in 2014 of the lower than average profitability level of certain acquisitions and in particular with a consistent quarterly improvement and profitability during the year culminating in the achievement of 20.2% ROS in Q4.
The improvement in ROS achieved consistently during the year reflects excellent operating execution both organically and in our acquisition program in addition to aggressive cost management.
This excellent performance is a direct result of the strength and commitment of the company’s entrepreneurial management team which continues to foster a high-performance action-oriented culture in which each individual operating unit is able to appropriately adjust to market conditions and thereby maximize both growth and profitability in what certainly continues to be a very dynamic environment.
Through the careful fostering of such a culture and the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry leading operating margins and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
The company recorded one-time charges of $10 million or $0.02 per share in the quarter which include the amortization of the value associated with acquired backlog relating to the Casco acquisition completed in the third quarter and also acquisition-related transaction costs.
The company also recorded acquisition cost in last year’s fourth quarter of $3 million or $0.01 per share.
The acquisition related costs include professional fees transaction taxes and other external expenses relating to the acquisitions closed in the respective time periods.
Interest expense for the quarter was $20 million compared to $16 million last year due to higher average debt levels resulting from the company’s acquisition and stock buyback programs.
From a sequential standpoint interest expense in the fourth quarter declined about $1 million from Q3 to Q4 and will further decline by another $3 million or so in Q1 2015 due to a reduction in the company’s average effective interest rate.
The lower average rate is a result of the new note issuance in September replacing a higher cost note maturity in November and the implementation of a new commercial paper program.
Other income in the quarter was $5.2 million up from $3.9 million last year primarily as a result of higher interest income and higher levels of cash and short-term cash investments.
The company’s effective tax rate in the quarter was 26.4% compared to 26.3% last year both excluding one-time items.
For the full year also excluding one-time items the rates were 26.5% and 26.3% in 2014 and 2013 respectively.
On an as reported basis the company’s effective tax rate was approximately 26.2% in Q4 2014 and 26.5% for the full year 2014 compared to 26.2% and 24.6% for the respective 2013 time periods.
The full year 2013 included the impact of a net income tax benefit of $3.6 million or $0.01 per share relating primarily to the completion of prior year audits.
In addition it also included an income tax benefit of $11 million or $0.03 per share resulting from the reinstatement on January 2 2013 of certain federal income tax provisions relating primarily to research and development and U.S.
taxes on foreign income.
Our 2015 guidance incorporates an effective tax rate excluding one-time items of 26.5%.
Net income excluding one-time items was approximately 14% of sales in the quarter and earnings per share also before one-time items increased a strong 19% to $0.63 in Q4.
For the full year 2014 EPS excluding one-time items was $2.25 up 17% over last year an excellent performance.
Orders for the quarter were $1.427 billion up 15% from last year resulting in a book to bill ratio of about 1-to-1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash and we had very strong cash flow in the fourth quarter.
Cash flow is $273 million or 140% of net income.
For the full year operating cash flow was $881 million and 123% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
The company had good working capital management during the quarter.
Inventories stood at $866 million at the end of the year up 2% from September.
Inventory days were 79 days down one day from both September 2014 and December 2013 levels.
Accounts receivable was $1.1 billion at the end of the year up about 3% from September.
Day sales outstanding was 71 days up one day from September 2014 and December 2013 and accounts payable was $618 million up about 3% from September and from the days perspective was 57 days up one day compared to both September and prior December levels.
The strong cash flow from operations along with net proceeds from our commercial paper program of $671 million and $12 million of stock option proceeds were used primarily to purchase $139 million of the company’s stock to fund $46 million of capital expenditures and $50 million of acquisition payments relating to the December acquisition of Goldstar to fund the November maturity of the company’s 4.75 $600 million 5-year notes and to repay $22 million under the company’s revolving credit facility.
This resulted in an increase in cash and cash equivalents of about $96 million in the quarter.
During the quarter the company repurchased 2.9 million shares under its January 2013 20 million share stock buyback program.
This completed the authorization under that program and the Board of Directors has authorized a new 2-year 10 million stock share repurchase program that commences this month.
At the end of the year cash and short-term investments were $1.33 billion.
The majority of which is held outside the U.S.
Our total debt stood at $2.67 billion bringing net debt to $1.34 billion.
And as we previously disclosed in September of this year the company established a new $1.5 billion commercial paper program that’s supported by the company’s $1.5 billion revolving credit facility.
And at quarter end the company had issued $671 million in commercial paper under the program.
EBITDA in the quarter was $330 million bringing the full year EBITDA to $1.2 billion.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent performance.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana and I’d like to offer my welcome to all of you on the phone and hopefully it’s not too late to wish you as well a Happy New Year here in January.
As Diana mentioned I am going to highlight some of our achievements during the fourth quarter and the full year and then I will spend some time to discuss the trends and our progress across our various served markets.
Finally I will make some comments on our outlook for the first quarter as well as for the full year of 2015.
Turning to the fourth quarter I think as Diana just reviewed the fourth quarter was an excellent quarter for the company in virtually all respects.
As we exceeded the high-end of our guidance while setting new records in sales and earnings our revenue increased a very strong 15% from prior year and 5% sequentially reaching the record level of $1.427 billion.
And the company similarly booked a record $1.427 billion in orders which represented a book-to-bill of exactly 1-to-1.
Diana also highlighted that we reached in the quarter the highest levels of profitability in the company’s history with our operating margins expanding 50 basis points from prior year to 20.2% a great achievement by any benchmark.
We are also very pleased that our Board of Directors has approved the 10 million share stock buyback program that we announced today which follows the completion of our January 2013 program.
What I can just say with respect to the fourth quarter and for the year I am extremely proud of our team.
Our results this quarter confirm once again the true value of the discipline as well as the agility of Amphenol’s entrepreneurial organization.
We continue to capitalize on the many available opportunities for growth while also driving superior operating performance.
We also made great progress in our acquisition program in the fourth quarter with the acquisition of Goldstar Electric Systems which was completed during the month of December.
Goldstar is a China-based manufacturer of high technology interconnect assemblies for the industrial heavy equipment industry.
And the company has facilities in two important new locations in China and has annual revenues of approximately $40 million.
There is no question that the addition of Goldstar strengthens what is already a very robust presence that we have in the China industrial market and provides a great complement to our already fast growing industrial interconnect business.
We are especially pleased that the entire management team of Goldstar has joined Amphenol and I personally look forward to them driving continued growth in the company for many years to come.
This acquisition is very consistent with our ongoing successful strategy to acquire complementary companies with strong management leading technology and an excellent market presence.
And as we welcome this outstanding new team to Amphenol we remain very confident that our successful acquisition program will continue to create value for Amphenol into the future.
I’d like to make a couple of comments just about the full year of 2014.
And I think we can say very simply that 2014 was an outstanding year for the company.
As we grew strongly while establishing new records in sales and earnings we expanded our position in the overall market growing sales by 16% to a new record $5.346 billion.
And we did that while generating EPS of $2.25 a growth of 17% from prior year and achieving 19.6% operating margins.
We are also very pleased to have created further value with our acquisition program in 2014 with the important acquisitions of Casco and then Goldstar which we just announced.
These fine companies are significant additions to Amphenol which further expand our position in the automotive interconnect and sensors market as well as in the industrial interconnect market.
It is our consistent focus across Amphenol on growing with the broadening array of customers across the many diversified end markets that has resulted in us strengthening our position across the Board in the electronics industry.
In addition our entrepreneurial organization has accelerated the development of innovative-interconnect technologies in support of our clear long-term mission which is to be the enabler of the electronics revolution.
These developments have allowed Amphenol to capitalize on exciting new markets and thereby have broadened the opportunity for the company for our future growth.
So as we close 2014 I can just say that we are confident that we have now built a new platform of strength from which the company can drive even stronger performance into the future.
Now turning to the trends in our served markets I just want to comment that once again in the quarter our diversification across these end markets remains one of the greatest assets of the company with no market representing more than 17% of our sales for the full year 2014.
The military market represented 10% of our sales in the quarter and 11% of our sales for the full year.
Sales in the military market increased 3% from prior year driven by growth in military vehicle communications and airframe applications and grew 2% sequentially.
For the full year 2014 our sales were up slightly and that is despite what have been very well reported reductions in overall military spending in many Western countries.
We are pleased to have seen some stabilization that demand environment in particular in the United States defense market but while we do not expect any significant rebounds in overall spending and while world events continue to create uncertainty around these global spending patterns we are confident that our position remains strong.
The increasing electronic content in military equipment together with our broad program participation and strong positions in high-growth emerging markets have created good platforms for future growth.
While we expect a slight moderation of sales going into the first quarter for the full year 2014 we do anticipate a modest increase in sales from these levels as we benefit from the ramp up of new programs as well as from our new designs on next generation military equipment.
The commercial aerospace market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter as well as for the full year of 2014.
Sales increased a very strong 6% from prior year and actually 8% organically as we continued to capitalize on increased demand resulting from higher production levels of next generation jetliners on which we have strong content.
Sequentially our sales grew by 4% from the seasonally lower third quarter.
And as we look back at the full year of 2014 our sales grew strongly rising from 2013 by 18% including acquisitions and 10% organically clearly outperforming the overall market for jetliners.
We are very pleased with our continued progress in the commercial air market.
As we have taken excellent advantage of the proliferation of new electronics on next generation jetliners which we are enabling with our high-technology interconnect products.
Looking forward we expect sales to essentially remain at roughly these levels in the first quarter but we continue to have a positive outlook for the commercial air market in 2015 and beyond as production volumes continued to ramp up and as new platforms launch thereby creating an exciting long-term opportunity for Amphenol.
The industrial market represented 16% of our sales in the fourth quarter and 17% of our sales for the full year of 2014 effectively one of our two largest markets in the year.
Sales in this market grew by a very strong 35% on a year-over-year basis.
And this was driven in particular by growth in the medical heavy equipment and oil and gas segments together with contributions from our acquisitions that have been completed during the course of the past year.
On a sequential basis our sales were slightly lower than prior quarters demand moderated seasonally in several segments of the industrial market.
For the full year of 2014 we are just very pleased with this market where sales grew by an extremely strong 44% as we benefited from the acquisition of advanced sensors as well as strong 14% organic growth in the worldwide industrial market.
We are very pleased with our outstanding progress this year in this market.
Our expansion within the many growth segments of the market including medical heavy equipment oil and gas as well as factory automation has been complemented by a successful extension into sensors as well as our continued development of high-technology interconnect products.
The addition of Goldstar here in the fourth quarter represents yet another step forward in our successful expansion in particular within the high-growth China industrial market.
While we have seen some recent slowing in certain segments of the industrial market including in particular the oil and gas area.
Looking ahead we expect sales to remain stable in the first quarter.
And we have continued to look forward to a strong year in the industrial market in 2015 as we benefit from the Goldstar acquisition as well as from our continued progress at diversification to the many exciting segments of the industrial market.
The automotive market represented 17% of our sales in the fourth quarter and represented 15% of our sales for the full year of 2014.
Sales increased an excellent and higher than expected 62% from prior year and 24% sequentially.
Organic growth in the quarter was a very very strong 21% year-over-year and 5% sequentially really strong by any measure.
This significant year-over-year growth was driven by ongoing ramp-ups of new high technology programs as well as generally higher vehicle production volumes combined with the significant benefits from both the Advanced Sensors and Casco acquisitions that we have completed over the course of last year.
For the full year of 2014 we are very pleased as we have achieved excellent growth of 49% in U.S.
dollars and 21% organically for the total of 2014.
No question that these results reflect our success in our drive to expand our interconnect and now sensor product offering into new vehicles around the world and we look forward to further capitalizing on the accelerating revolution of automotive electronics in the future.
Our expanded product offering now extends to many exciting areas of the market from hybrid and electric drives to safety and security telematics and infotainment exhaust management and engine control and transmission and braking all areas which positioned us strongly for future growth in the automotive market.
For the first quarter we anticipate a moderate increase in sales compared to fourth quarter and a more than 30% increase in U.S.
dollars and 45% increase in local currencies compared to the prior year’s first quarter.
For the full year 2015 we expect strong double-digit growth in this market as we realized the benefits of the Casco acquisition as well as of our very successful expansion of the range of automotive electronics into which our interconnect and sensor products are designed.
The mobile devices market represented 20% of our sales in the quarter and 17% of our sales for the full year 2014.
Our sales increased by stronger-than-expected 4% from prior year on increased sales of products sold into smartphones and smartphone accessories as well as laptops which more than offset a reduction in tablet-related sales.
Sequentially we grew a very strong 21% from the third quarter again on increased sales of smartphones and accessories as well as some sequential increase in tablet sales.
This was another excellent demonstration of our team’s ability to quickly react and to flex our manufacturing capacity to increase customer demand no doubt a critical asset in this very dynamic market.
For the full year 2014 sales increased by 5% which certainly represented better performance than we had anticipated coming into the second half of the year.
We are confident that our highly reactive and agile organization will continue to secure a strong position in the ever dynamic mobile device market and remain encouraged by our excellent technology position across the wide range of new mobile computing platforms.
In particular mobile functionality is being integrated into an ever broader array of devices thereby expanding the growth opportunity for both our interconnect as well as antenna products.
Looking into the first quarter we do expect a roughly 25% sequential reduction in sales due to normal seasonality combined with the impact from strong ramp-ups of new products in the fourth quarter.
Just want to note that this is very similar to the seasonal decline that we experienced coming into the first quarter of this last year 2014.
At this point we expect sales for the full year of 2015 to remain roughly at these 2014 levels as increases in products sold into smartphones and accessories as well as laptops are offset by expected reductions in sales related to tablet computers.
Regardless of the overall demand environment though we remain extremely confident that our dynamic agile team has positioned us to benefit from any increases in demand that may arise in this exciting market.
The mobile networks market represented 9% of our sales in the quarter and 11% of our sales for the full year and sales grew again strongly from prior year expanding by 13% on growth in products sold both into wireless OEMs as well as direct to wireless service providers.
As expected sales declined sequentially by 19% as operators around the world moderated their spending from their earlier high levels of investment.
No question that 2014 was an excellent year for our team working in the mobile networks market as they were able to capitalize on the expanded build-outs around the world growing our sales by a very strong 24% from prior year all organic.
Our clear outperformance of the overall wireless market this year is a great affirmation of the strength of both our broad-interconnect as well as antenna technologies combined with our excellent position with OEM and operator customers around the world.
Based on the latest information we have from those customers and looking out into the first quarter and beyond we do expect a further moderation of sales in the first quarter.
And at this time we anticipate a slight reduction in our sales to the mobile networks market for 2015 as operators digest the significant investments that were made in 2014.
But regardless we remain very well positioned in this market due to our broad design and positions on new base station platforms as well as our strong presence with a diverse range of global wireless operators.
The information technology and data comm market represented 16% of our sales in the quarter as well as for the full year of 2014 and very pleased that this market performed better than expected in the fourth quarter as our sales decreased by only a very slight amount from prior year as expected moderations of demand in networking equipment more than offset growth in the storage related products and servers.
Our sales increased actually by 3% sequentially on the strengthening of sales of our products incorporated into both networking as well as storage equipment.
No question that 2014 was a challenging year in the IT data comm market as the overall market experienced significant dynamics and one could even say disruptions.
As a result growth in storage and servers that we did achieve was more than offset by declines in networking equipment sales and thus our total sales declined slightly for the year.
Nevertheless despite those market dynamics we made tremendous progress this year in our development of advanced high-technology products as well as in our initiative to penetrate the many newly arising Web 2.0 and datacenter customers.
Regardless of the many structural changes in this market all of our IT customers are pushing their equipment to new levels of performance in order to handle the rapid expansion of data which is driven in particular by new mobile devices and by the continuing spread of video on the Internet as well as by the acceleration of cloud-based computing.
While we expect a further seasonal moderation of IT data comm demand in the first quarter we do anticipate this market to return to growth in 2015.
And we are excited by the potential of these new technologies together with our accelerating progress with new datacenter customers.
The broadband market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter and 7% of our sales for the full year 2014.
Sales in this market decreased slightly from prior year and by roughly 5% sequentially as domestic MSO build-out activity slowed to the traditional seasonality.
For the full year our sales moderated slightly from 2013 as growth in our new products as well as with non-traditional customers was offset by overall reductions in investments by cable operators which we believe is in part related to the ongoing consolidation that is occurring in the broadband industry.
While we expect demand to remain at these levels in the first quarter we look forward to some degree of renewed growth in the broadband market in 2015.
As operators expand their spending in support of higher-speed data offerings and as we realize the benefits of our expanded offerings of cable and interconnect products.
In summary I just want to say that we are all extremely proud of the company’s excellent growth and record performance in both the fourth quarter and the full year of 2014.
And despite the many uncertainties that remain in the global economy our organization continues to execute extremely well and expand our market position.
The company’s superior performance is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages leading technology our broadened and increasing position with customers across the diverse range of end markets in the electronics industry our presence around the world a very lean and agile flexible cost structure as well as an entrepreneurial and dynamic management team that at end of the day makes it happen.
Now turning to our outlook for the first quarter and into 2015 I just want to comment that there no doubt continues to a great deal of geopolitical and market uncertainly around the world including in particular the increased volatility and significant weakening of certain overseas currencies.
Accordingly and based on a continuation of the current economic environment as well as on constant exchange rates we now expect in the first quarter and the full year 2015 the following results.
For the first quarter we expect sales in the range of $1.286 billion to $1.326 billion and EPS in the range of $0.55 to $0.57 respectively.
This represents a sales increase versus prior year of 3% to 6% in U.S.
dollars and 7% to 10% in local currency as well as an EPS increase of 10% to 14% compared to prior year.
For the full year 2015 we anticipate sales in the range of $5.493 billion to $5.653 billion as well as EPS in the range of $2.41 to $2.49.
For the full year this represents sales and EPS growth excluding one-time items of 3% to 6% and 7% to 11% respectively over 2014 levels.
In constant currencies this guidance represents a year-over-year growth of 6% to 9%.
We are very encouraged by the strong outlook in sales and earnings especially given the many dynamics in the global economy.
And I remain extremely confident in the ability of the outstanding Amphenol management team to build upon these newly established record levels of revenue and EPS and to continue to capitalize on the many opportunities to grow our market position and expand our profitability into 2015.
And operator at this stage we would be very happy to take any questions that there may be.
Thank you.
And the question-and-answer period will now begin.
Our first question comes from Amit Daryanani with RBC Capital Markets.
You may ask your question.
Thanks a lot.
Good afternoon guys.
Two questions for me.
I guess one I think you guys spent a fair bit of time talking about just some of the FX impact in Q1 and in 2015.
Is there a way to think about what is the FX impact on your EPS and potentially even free cash flow for the year? Sure.
I think if you think about what the potential FX impacts on income are I think you have got two components.
One is translation component which is just the mathematics of converting foreign currency sales into U.S.
dollars.
And I think we have disclosed what the sales impact of that is.
I would tell you that if you wanted to compute that impact you could probably use an average ROS on those sales.
So it would be about the same percentage on income than it is on sales.
Yes the second potential impact is for a mismatch between selling price and cost structure.
And I think that’s one where we have a very active program to manage that risk.
And I think we have done a very good job historically of being able to manage that down to a level that has never been material for the business and we don’t expect to see anything different in the current environment with respect to that.
So I think the translation impact is the only one that you would have.
Got it.
That’s really helpful.
And I guess I get $0.07 to $0.08 impact to EPS based on the return on sales math.
I guess Adam maybe you could just touch on the M&amp;A environment your capital allocation in 2015 as you go forward maybe just touch on your ability or desire to do deals how big of a deal would you like to do? And this maybe a little naïve but do you think a declining euro the way it has makes it increase the probability of you guys doing deals in Europe given you have a better currency today than 6 months ago? Yes Amit well thank you very much for the question.
I think what I would just say relative to the overall M&amp;A environment we continue to feel that we have a very strong position as what we term the acquirer of choice in the industry.
We are very pleased with the acquisition that we made here in the fourth quarter of Goldstar just an outstanding company not located in Europe but certainly an outstanding company where it is in China.
And we continue to see in terms of capital allocation that M&amp;A remains the best return for us on our capital together with new product expansion and then we have obviously the buyback as well as the dividend program that Diana has talked about very often.
But relative to M&amp;A we continued to be very aggressive.
We continued to have a very robust pipeline of deals.
And I think what we are very pleased with is as we have expanded the company and expanded the kind of scope of the interconnect solution that we are approaching including everything from connectors to cable assemblies to flex assemblies to antennas as well as now sensors the universe of opportunities for acquisitions if anything has grown over the last half of a decade for us and that opens up many many opportunities for us to pursue interesting companies.
Relative to size there is no question that we have the wherewithal from the capital standpoint and the financial strength to do deals of quite significant size and we would not shy away from that.
At the same time we have a very simple but also pretty strict criteria for acquisitions and that has not changed.
It starts with management and us looking to find companies that are run by strong managers who want to really succeed beyond where they have succeeded in the past by being part of Amphenol.
We look for companies that have outstanding technology and technology that is really complementary to us.
And we look for companies that have a complementary market position in an area where we see growth potential.
I think size has never been one of those criterias and it continues not to be a criteria but no doubt with the financial strength that we have created over these years we have probably more capacity to make a bigger acquisition if that was certainly available.
Relative to the declining euro things go up and things go down.
And I think you know well having followed the company for many many years that we are not opportunistic in the sense that when a currency goes down we immediately change and we hunt for companies in that area to try to get something on the cheap or otherwise that’s really not the mindset that we approach.
We take a very long view to these acquisitions and we have a pipeline of acquisitions that is made up of companies in every geography around the world.
And certainly we will continue to pursue them regardless of where the currency rates have moved in a given day.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Craig Hettenbach with Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thank you.
Adam a question on the sensor market and as you bring that business into the fold just curious kind of the opportunity set that you are seeing from a product development and design standpoint with your customers if you can give us any insight into that? Yes.
Well thank you very much Craig.
It’s just really exciting I mean here we are in a roughly 13 months after having acquired the Advanced Sensors business 13 months and 3 days to be exact and we continue to just have positive surprises I would say every month every quarter almost every week in terms of validating our original intention to get into the sensors market.
How would I describe that I mean I said early on that we were very excited by the sensor market in particular because we saw a great combination of the technology of interconnect and sensors that the value of a sensor comes not just from that sensor element but rather from that total package that you are selling to customers and very frequently that is an interconnect package.
That was obviously we said that at the day when we bought the company and I can tell you that now 13 months later knowing a lot more than we knew 13 months ago no question that that has been validated.
When we go to customers there is no doubt about it.
There is a positive reception to – by the customers to the idea that we can bring to those meetings an engineer who gets the sensor who gets the underlying technology of the sensing element together with an engineer who gets how to connect that into the system because at the end of the day you can have the best element in the world but if it doesn’t connect into the system it doesn’t matter.
It just won’t work.
And I think that is a challenge that our customers have wrestled with for many many years.
And again that has just been validated time and again as I visited customers and as I have talked to our team and those in and out of our team met customers and otherwise that combination of the interconnect together with the sensor is a very very compelling proposition for our customers.
So I think as it relates to the product development we have seen lot of activities between our organization pre-acquisition the interconnect engineering teams together with the sensing engineering teams that came with Advanced Sensors and then later Casco.
Does that mean that you flip a switch and the sales go up by a precipitous amount in a moment of course that doesn’t mean that because there is the lead time to designing those products.
You are working in many cases on very long cycle harsh environment programs in either the automotive or the industrial market medical heavy equipment and places like that.
So these aren’t just immediate kind of switches that you can flip but at the end of the day there is no doubt that there is a positive momentum behind that and that we see great opportunities in the future to leverage the sensors together with the connectors.
Got it.
Thanks.
And as my follow-up for Diana appreciate the color and context around FX any commentary on metal prices particularly copper with the decline if that’s a little bit of help or above and beyond that any kind of puts and takes to below the line-out margins as you think through 2015? Yes.
Relative I mean to the contributors to margin and commodity prices and oil and this kind of thing I mean I think as we have said before there are many contributors to margin and it’s never easy to single out specific items but certainly in addition to strong sales growth and good operational execution a more supportive commodity environment normally is a positive certainly in product areas where metals or certain plastics or even transportation costs can be particularly important.
But the way that we look at this really the ultimate impact on margin depends largely on the balance between input cost and pricing and that balance tends really to be dependent upon the perceptions of demand levels.
And I would say that right now given the current extreme market volatility whether you talk about currencies or commodities or oil economic growth I mean it really prevents a bit of a challenge in terms of – for some markets in terms of establishing what that direction and what that demand is.
And so we really right now wouldn’t say that we see any particular abnormal advantage or tailwind from a margin perspective on a consolidated basis relative to any of these trends from a commodity standpoint.
But I think also as we have said in response to this question in the past you can be certainly assured that our management team is going to do the best to capture and keep any advantage that does present itself in the marketplace from commodities oil or anything else that comes along.
Your next question comes from Amitabh Passi with UBS.
You may ask your question.
Hi thank you guys.
I had a question and a follow-up.
Maybe this is a bit of a finer point and a subtle point Adam but I was curious if I look at your first quarter 2015 guidance it seems like much of the impact is seasonal in some of your markets like mobile devices concerns around FX.
I am just curious are you sensing maybe an increasing level of caution across the Board in terms of order patterns or maybe lead times or are orders being pushed out? I am just wondering if there is a sense of caution in terms of the overall demand environment or do you think again it’s around FX and just maybe seasonality? Yes thank you very much Amitabh.
I think that as we look into the first quarter one thing I will say is the whole world there is a sense of uncertainty.
I think that has not been a change.
I mean every quarter there seems to be something new about which the TVs can speak and the newspapers can write but there is no doubt that there is a lot of uncertainty in the world today.
I think as we look at our guidance I think you correctly characterized that there are some seasonal effects.
There is obviously the impact of currency which is a very dramatic volatility.
And as Diana mentioned you can’t even look at that currency in a vacuum.
It is reflective of some overall dynamic going on in the worldwide market.
I think there are also some specific markets things a market like for example a mobile infrastructure whereas I mentioned we don’t expect that market to grow this year after having a fabulous growth in 2014 a little bit because operators are digesting that which they built over the course of the recent quarters here.
So I think it is largely seasonality.
At the same time there is no doubt about it a general sense of uncertainty.
I would not point though that there has been any significant pullbacks of orders.
There have not been any cancellations or pullouts or some of those more sort of short-term things that one would look at as the sign of a kind of an immediate impending doom.
There is certainly none of that that we have seen.
Excellent.
And then just as a follow-up I guess more specifically on the IT datacom segment you spoke about returning to growth this year.
It looks like in 2014 storage might have been a bit better than networking.
So just wanted to understand what drives growth this year? Are all your end markets storage servers networking performing better? Are you getting greater traction with some of the web scale players? Just any help you can give in terms of the growth drivers? Sure.
I mean I think I mentioned in my early remarks that this has been a very challenging market in particular because of the significant structural changes that have happened in that market.
And you have really what you know very well and better than I through your coverage of that space a true disruption that has happened and a shifting of the balance of power in that and you see that as the OEMs release their results some of which have come out just in the 24 hours or 48 hours.
And what we have done in that time and thank goodness we have the agility and the nimble organization to do so.
It’s a very rapidly redeploy our resources towards those web centric and cloud computing type companies towards the ODM manufacturers towards the direct datacenter market.
And that’s – those are efforts that we have really been accelerating over the course of the last year and which we would expect to pay more significant dividends going ahead.
As I look at those groups servers storage and networking I don’t think that we see a kind of a different shape to those going into this year.
There is no doubt that in 2014 networking was the real drag on the performance I mean that networking business was down significantly compared to a server and storage business that we are actually up on a full year basis.
I think going into this year we wouldn’t expect that to be so much of a differential between those spaces.
But again who knows to be honest because that is the space where there is more change to come no question you will see new players arrives and old players disappear and you will see further shift in the balance of who is spending what money.
But what will not change and that’s very clear is that data will continue to grow exponentially and the desire to process that data and in fact the need to process that data.
This is not going to abate.
It’s a question of hunting down who is ultimately doing it.
And in that case I bet on a nimble organization like ours more than any other to go in and ferret that out and establish where those new buying patterns are happening.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matt Sheerin with Stifel.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good afternoon and happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Thanks.
A question to Adam regarding the GE sensor business you talked about the cross-selling opportunities and obviously the opportunities within sensors from an operating perspective I know the margins there were below Amphenol’s margins what kind of progress have you made and how much is left? Yes.
I think we would say that we have made very good progress there.
If you look I mean that’s not the only factor.
We have had a lot of great execution in driving our margins up quarter-to-quarter over the course of this year.
But very clearly we did talk about it in the first quarter last year that the kind of dilutive effect of the lower than average margins of the Advanced Sensors business did pull down our margins in the first quarter.
I think the fact that we have brought those margins back up and now in the last quarter 50 basis points higher than before we acquired the Advanced Sensors business is a reflection of the great execution of our total team as well as some impact from improvement in Advanced Sensors.
No one has ever done in Amphenol though.
So there will be much room to go.
Got it.
And regarding your commentary on oil and gas market being softer which obviously makes sense how big a business is that for you relative to your industrial exposure and are you just seeing backlog or bookings start to fall going into the year? Look I mean the beauty of our industrial business and very much like total Amphenol is we have a very very broad industrial business and there is not any segment across our industrial business which dominates that space.
And while it’s true that oil and gas has been one of the helpful drivers and that it won’t be a help going into this year it is still a market that we continued to believe will have strong performance as I mentioned in my early remarks.
So look there is no question when the price of oil drops by more than half people are going to drill less they are going hunt less and they are going to explore less and they are going to ultimately use less equipment and those equipment makers are going to use less connectors in making that smaller amount of equipment so that is what it is.
Our team will react very well.
We have a very broad presence again in many areas of the energy market and that’s not even just confined to oil and gas it includes alternative energy.
But you can rest assured that those individuals in the company who are in that space who have seen no doubt about it some pullbacks in order volumes they are taking the appropriate Amphenol like reactions in terms of measuring their resources and adjusting their resources accordingly.
While we reallocate resources to the high growth opportunities that still remain across the industrial market.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Mark Delaney with Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Good afternoon and thanks very much for letting me ask a question.
I was hoping if you could talk first on the M&amp;A situation and have you see any change in the valuations and the level of competitive activity for any of your competitors are trying to bid for some of the same customers that you are and is that impacting the valuations that you are able to get? Yes.
I commented earlier that we still feel very positive about the M&amp;A environment and there is no doubt about that.
I mean look multiples go up and multiples go down.
We tend not to sort of chase market multiples.
We tend to develop long-term relationships with companies.
And then ultimately if we develop mutually a trust between us we are usually able to find a fair price that satisfies both sides.
And I think that’s been our approach in acquisitions.
We are not a kind of tactical deal-based acquisition company.
We are very much a long-term view towards acquisitions.
There are certainly lots of companies in our space and in other spaces related to our space.
We want to make lots of acquisitions.
And they are going to buy some companies and we are not going to buy some companies but that’s no change.
I mean that has been the case for a decade and a half across this industry.
But over the course of that time period we have managed to buy somewhere around 70 companies and we have acquired 12 companies just in the last 3 years as the equity markets have expanded and multiples have expanded.
And we have continued to still be able to find good companies for fair prices.
I don’t say it’s cheap.
We are not trying to get cheap prices but we are getting fair prices and excellent companies.
And I think we will continue to find good opportunities to continue on that path.
Understood.
And then you also mentioned the expansion of the buyback program in your prepared remarks if you could just help us understand how you plan on implementing the buyback? Sure.
I mean we implement the buyback program as we always have done in the past really each quarter we take a look at a very balanced look at what our acquisition program looks like and we then make the decision on that basis as to how much additional capital it makes sense to deploy.
If you go back and look at last year if you look at the last 5 years you know what the results of that has been that about half of the free cash flow of the company has gone back to shareholders in the form either of dividends or stock buybacks.
And so if one wanted some sort of proxy one could use that historical pattern I would just say that that we will and we do I think as Adam said before we prioritized the acquisition program in terms of use of the company’s financial strength because we really believe that that provides the best long-term return for the company and for the shareholders but other than that if you wanted to use an historical pattern for a proxy of what the company would do with a stock buyback program I would think that will be fine.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steven Fox with Cross Research.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Two questions for me.
Adam first off on the auto market outlook you discussed for 2015 you mentioned strong double-digit growth.
I wasn’t sure what that meant from an organic standpoint versus say how fast you are going to grow over global vehicle production? And then you did mention a bunch of market extensions there I don’t know if you could highlight one or two that are driving that? And then just real quick on tablets declining this year is that a function of unit demand for tablets market share shifts that your customers or with your products or just any design changes that is impacting you? A little color there would help? Thanks.
Sure.
Well thanks very much Steve.
I think with your first part on the auto market we do have still a very positive outlook for that market and we have just made outstanding progress.
Our whole organization who works in that space I just can’t applaud them enough for what they have achieved here over the course of the last 5 years in terms of expanding our product offering and getting really positioned on high technology complex interconnect systems that are enabling next-generation electronics in cars.
And so as we look going into next year and I mentioned we have strong double-digit outlook we have also a very strong outlook organically in that space.
And I don’t know what the latest numbers are for car expectations I know you wrote that in the report but I am sorry but I forget exactly the number you said but I know maybe that’s a low single-digit or so outlook for car volumes and we would certainly expect our business to perform significantly above those levels on an organic basis as a result of these excellent design-ins we have on really long-term next-generation systems.
Relative to the mobile devices market I did mention that we expect growth in smartphones and related accessories together with our laptops being offset by some reduction in tablets.
I think that reduction in tablets is a combination what is predominantly driven by just unit volume expectations in the tablet space where I think there has been – that’s been widely reported of some of the unit volumes that go.
We talked I think a number of quarters ago about some content reductions in the tablet space.
And while there maybe some impact from that I think the broader impact comes really from the reduction in units of tablets.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Two questions… Good afternoon.
Happy New Year Shawn.
Thanks Adam.
Two questions but the first on mobile networks is there anyway with the weakness you are anticipating for 2015 if you can maybe give some geographic insights and maybe if you are seeing are region up versus other regions down.
And then the second Diana I just wanted to confirm I think last time on the call you said you are targeting CapEx for this year around 3% to 3.5% of sales just wondering if that number holds true? Well thanks very much Shawn.
I think it’s a little too early to say what region is going to perform at what level in the mobile networks market going forward.
I think what we are very pleased with here in 2014 is that all the regions Asia North America and Europe all grew in double digits.
I think that growth was strongest in Asia there is no question.
But we had also very very strong growth in Europe and excellent growth in North America as well.
So looking at this year on the basis of our expectations that some of these operators are going to be taking a little time to digest their investments I don’t know that that would be so much differential across the regions but it’s early to say in that market.
And from a CapEx standpoint that still would hold true Shawn.
It would be about 3% 3.5% of sales that would be down from 2014 levels where we were funding some new buildings and so forth that won’t repeat in 2015.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jim Suva with Citi.
You may ask your question.
Thank you and Adam and Diana congratulations to you and your team there at Amphenol for great results and outlook.
Thank you Jim.
I have one question for Adam and one question for Diana and they are pretty unrelated but Adam when we talked about the integration of your acquisitions such as the GE sensor market and things like that and great progress there.
But I have to wonder about on the cross-selling opportunity is that still more to come in the future and the reason why I ask it a lot of designs for connectors and interconnect with sensors are designed in from a product inception and necessarily don’t rule out immediately to say hey stop using this competitor’s connector and start using Amphenol’s connectors.
So I guess the question Adam is that still more in the future to come and if so does that typically take and I guess this is your first real sensor company acquisition do you envision that kind of more like a 2 to 3 year down the road of being able to designing more Amphenol content or when do you expect that to happen is there still more upside.
And one for Diana on the question a little follow-up on the raw materials if I remember correctly I think the at the coaxial business has a significantly more percent wise of say copper and plastic/petroleum-based products and if so can you walk us through about the timing of when raw materials could potentially help your company such as I believe you would have to buy the materials procure it and put it together then sell it so maybe there is a little bit of a lagging impact to raw materials going lower to your margins so maybe a couple of quarters down the road.
And do you typically give back like half and keep half the savings in general or how should we think about that? Thank you.
Jim maybe I will go first.
I don’t know that I would give a very different answer on the cable business than I gave on the interconnect business.
I think that the going way way back in the cable business when we had no sort of ancillary products and we had a lot of hard-line cable there was one commodity in particular that was certainly a dominant piece of the puzzle there.
I would say now the business is a little more diverse from a product standpoint to start with and I think you have that same relationship that I talked about between pricing and cost structure.
And so I wouldn’t say that in that business we necessarily see a significant tailwind at this point.
I would reiterate though that if we certainly get the opportunity for significant savings that – and get the opportunity from a demand standpoint to keep those we certainly are quite good at doing that.
We have a very good profitability track record and then we will certainly make every effort to get the most bang for the buck there.
But we really just don’t see in either segment at this point a significant benefit coming through purely because of commodity prices.
Yes.
And Jim relative to your first question on the integration and the various opportunities for cross-selling I mean I would just say once again that we have – there is tremendous activity across the company of getting engineers together with engineers getting salespeople together with salespeople and working with customers.
But you correctly point out that there is a time cycle.
There is a cycle to program development.
It is not always that you have to be there on the first day of conception of something because in fact it’s not always at that time when the connectors or the sensors are designed in.
And I think there is one additional thing.
As you look in industrial and in particular in automotive there is an advent now of more what I would call mid-cycle upgrades and that comes from a very simple dynamic.
It is the fact that all of us are used now to upgrading our personal technology on a very frequent basis.
I mean we are getting a new phone every 6 months.
My kids would prefer to have one every 3 months I think but they are getting it every year or two and very unhappy because of it but we have a human need to upgrade technology because there is such a rapid pace of improvement of the functionality of that technology.
The automakers the industrial equipment makers they have not been blind to this dynamic.
And thus you are starting to see more and more potential for what I would call non-mission critical mid-cycle upgrades.
We saw that very clearly in things like the lighting.
We made a wonderful acquisition several years ago of a company in automotive lighting.
And immediately what we saw was changing the lights much more frequently than they are changing the body types.
It’s called the cosmetic upgrade.
They are doing the same things with some of these electronic systems.
So putting in a new temperature sensing system of some sort putting in some sort of new telematic system whenever that is there are these mid-cycle upgrades which have the potential to shorten the lifecycle that is there.
I can tell you I was just a couple of weeks ago in Las Vegas at this Consumer Electronics Show which I in many ways wouldn’t wish on my worst enemy because you wear through at least a pair of shoes and you bump into a lot of people over the course of a few hours.
But what was amazing is just to see the proliferation in the automotive industry of the electronics.
I mean that show is becoming an automotive show where it used to be a computer show years ago.
And I think that’s another reflection of this expansion of electronics that you see of things that are moving faster than just new body types and new engine types and new transmissions that used to be the kind of gating feature on these long lifecycles.
So I think it’s true that the cross-selling will take time.
It always takes time regardless because we are not in the business of kind of throwing these new companies into chaos.
We let them run their company the day they come into Amphenol.
We don’t want things to change.
And from that respect we want the same people to be running that business and performing but then we slowly opened doors of opportunity to them both collaborating with their peers and opening doors into customers where they wouldn’t otherwise have had a presence and therein lies the long-term value that we can create with these acquisitions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from William Stein with SunTrust.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
I’d like to dig into the very good operating margin performance for a second.
You have long had 20% aggregate operating margin sort of bogey I think this is the second time you have exceeded it and you have had 25% fall through target and you had very good fall through in the quarter.
I am wondering if either owing to your growing revenue in sensors and more integrated products Adam that you discussed you talked about flex circuits and other sort of more integrated products I am wondering if that’s potentially resulting in the ability to deliver higher still either fall through or aggregate operating margins? No I mean maybe I will make some comment briefly and then let Diana also address this.
I think that is not really the main driver.
I mean we believe that there is good product – there is good profit opportunities across all of the spaces that we participate in.
And I think those areas that you point out really open up great opportunities for profitable growth for the company and expansion.
Sure.
I mean I think that we have done a great job in 2014 in terms of expansion and you referred to that.
I think we have also guided in 2015 on a year-over-year basis to strong margin expansion.
And I think that the keys to that really are the same as they have always been.
It’s a focus on technology and it’s a culture of accountability attention to detail from a cost standpoint and the company’s entrepreneurial structure.
I think as Adam said that applies across the board to everything that we do that doesn’t apply more or less to one technology or the other.
I think that if you look at the 2015 guidance and you look at the earnings per share growth know that we have guided.
If you just take the high end as an example we have got a 6% sales growth from the high end and we have got in 11% earnings per share growth.
And so if you look at the diversified group of EPS growth drivers that are really contributing to that performance I think this is extremely strong guidance for the year.
And you have got organic sales growth in multiple markets that drives that.
You have got margin expansion that I talked about with our margins going from about 19.6% to 20% next year.
We have got the contribution from our acquisitions program that Adam talked about at length.
We have got the contribution from the stock buyback program and we have got a lower effective interest rate from the refinancing actions that we took in 2014.
So I think that when we look at the guidance we have given in 2015 we don’t see any need to set any other goals and I think these are great goals.
This is a very strong performance both from an operating margin perspective and from a total EPS growth standpoint.
And I think as a team we certainly will feel very very good about the achievements of those goals as we lay them out for 2015.
Great that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thanks a lot.
Adam could you comment a little bit about the diversification within mobile devices given the flat guidance for the year particularly if you are participating with some of the newer players that seem to be gaining share rapidly in the emerging smartphone market? Thanks.
Sure.
I think I discussed earlier about the product diversification.
And I think I will just remind you that we have a strong position really across the board with customers and in every space in the mobile devices markets.
I think that the – our position is not totally different from the various market share positions of the various customers that are out there and has always been the case.
And I think what we have been very successful over the years is regardless of who the winners are and who the losers are we have managed over very long-term to build our business successfully.
And we remain committed to continuing that trend going forward.
There is no question that there have been some very nice new companies who have come about and we have participated with many if not all of those companies in a variety of fashions both with our interconnect as well as our antenna products.
And we will continue to do so.
And I think as you look into this coming year it remains a market that is very hard market to predict.
It remains the market where the winners of yesterday are not the winners of today.
And the winners of today may not be the winners of tomorrow.
But regardless we will remain committed to staying present with all of those.
The whole underlying success that we have had is really based on a cultural difference of our organization who works in mobile devices who play – who effectively works across these many different customers in these many different products in a way that reflects just a tremendous agility ducking and dodging as things come your way.
I mean it is not an easy market for them but they do a fabulous fabulous job by remaining quick by getting quickly on to the right programs and effectively all the programs.
But ultimately the outlook that we have given is one that is reflective of the fact that it is a difficult market to predict and one where if as I said there are further opportunities for growth I am sure our organization will be the first to really pounce upon those and execute well.
Thanks Adam.
And a quick one for Diana if I could just a follow-up on your comments from the previous question your 2015 guidance the midpoint incremental margins are well north of 30%.
And when you look at the realized sort of incremental margins across the last several quarters they have very strong north of 20% and 22.5% range for most of the time and if you look over the last several years that’s being true too so what do you think is really changing within sort of that is driving the incremental almost 10 points more of incremental margin within the guidance range? We don’t see 10 points more of incremental margin when we look at the guidance we see conversion margins as we call them that are a little above 25 but certainly not 30.
So I guess I don’t have exactly the same math that you have.
It is true that we had some quarters in 2014 to your point that we are in excess of 30.
And I think that when we talk through those quarters and those really were Q2 and Q3.
We had a certainly strong operating execution with some contribution from some of the acquisitions coming up to speed.
And I think as I said before it’s hard to pinpoint so precisely every single element that contributes to enhanced operating income margins.
But I think that we feel certainly very comfortable with the guidance that we have given it does include as I said before an expansion in ROS for the year and does have conversion margins that are I would say slightly higher than our 25% goal but not materially different.
And we continue to go along and think that that is the appropriate goal for the company.
We always try to do more try to do better if we can but I think we will feel quite good at the end of the day when we achieve these 2015 goals.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian White with Cantor Fitzgerald.
You may ask your question.
Great.
Just on the March quarter outlook at the midpoint it looks like sales fall 8% sequentially I know historically the last I think 5 years it’s been flat on average.
So what is really driving the seasonality that seems a little more magnified in this March quarter? Yes.
The 5 years I am not sure what acquisition impacts you have in there.
I think if you look from an organic standpoint the first quarter tends to be down unless you have a particular market that is doing something unusual.
I mean if you would look at last year’s first quarter as an example we did still have a sequential decline but in that particular quarter as an example the mobile network market had a big sequential upswing.
So you do have some markets that from time-to-time behave unusually in the first quarter but I think as far as we are concerned our normal range is down 4% 5% kind of range.
Maybe this is a percent more.
At the high end of guidance it’s a couple of percent more.
At the low end of guidance I guess it depends upon which you want to look at but I don’t think we feel that this is an unusual first quarter from a seasonality perspective.
Okay.
Because the only first quarter I see that’s weaker was first quarter of ‘09 which was down 13%.
In the history I never see a quarter go down more than that.
Yes.
I mean sometimes we have acquisitions Brian that come in in the first quarter that muck up the comparisons.
I mean you kind of need to look at the organic numbers.
And I would just off the top of my head I don’t know all the stats in front of me but our sales tend to be down a few percent in the first quarter on an organic basis.
Okay.
And then Adam when we think about this sensor market do you feel like you have all the tools in that market that you would like you can service all the verticals that you would like or what percent of the way through are you? It sounds like at a big opportunity it’s exciting and it’s new? Yes.
I know it is a big opportunity it’s exciting and it’s new though it is all very true but do we have all the kind of tools? I mean I would say do we have all of the products to offer all the attractive markets? And the answer is absolutely not.
I think when we acquired the GE Advanced Sensors business we are very excited by one thing in particular which was it was a very diversified company but it was very diversified but it was certainly not everything.
And so it was a great place to start the Advanced Sensors because it gave us the presence across the automotive and industrial market.
Within the industrial market it gave us the presence in a variety of areas heavy equipment medical HVAC in smart buildings and things like that.
It gave us also an access into pressure and temperature gas and moisture.
And then the addition of Casco added to our automotive sensor offering with rain sensing and light as well as additional temperature sensing but no question.
I mean we are far far from having what I would call a comprehensive sensor portfolio.
And that’s the great opportunity.
Because the opportunity comes both in our organic developments of new products which our teams are certainly doing and are being driven and supported to do much more than they were under the umbrella of a big industrial conglomerate.
And at the same time we have a robust pipeline of sensor acquisitions which over the coming years and half decades and decades ahead we will pursue with the same level of aggression and effectiveness that we have done in the interconnect market.
And we don’t today have every connector either.
It’s a big beautiful diversified market where we still see great opportunities for expansion.
And I think that’s doubly true with the sensors.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Mike Wood with Macquarie Securities Group.
You may ask your question.
This is actually Ryan Hunter on for Mike.
And I just have a few quick questions.
First in regards to the Goldstar acquisition is this more opportunistic due to declines in China heavy equipment market over the past few years or a technology acquisition and the synergies between – with your auto and current industrial business? Yes.
I think this was not opportunistic I mean we have known the company for a very long time.
We have a great sense of understanding and also optimism relative to the China industrial market and its totality.
And I think we see great opportunities for continued expansion with that company.
It’s a fabulous fabulous company I mean really you walk into their factory you don’t feel like you are out in the middle of nowhere China which is kind of where their operations are.
You feel like you are in really a world class manufacturing operation and thus the customers who want to have that same world class support they really flock to Goldstar.
And I think the great – there is a great opportunity domestically in China but there is an equal and attractive opportunity servicing customers around the world with their low cost base and so those are – it’s a are very very exciting company and certainly far from opportunistic in our case.
Cool and we have seen obviously a recent drop in input costs like gold and copper and can you guys discuss what tailwinds that you have embedded in your fiscal year ’15 guidance from price costs and what end market would be the biggest beneficiaries? I think Diana already mentioned a lot about the fact that we see that what’s important is not necessarily the input costs but the balance of input costs in the end market environment.
And I think as she mentioned very well we will no doubt seize on whatever opportunity comes from those input costs but it is not just an automatic there is not just an automatic flow through and if the market environment – if those input costs are reflective of an overall market environment which is not as robust then you don’t tend to be able to just put everything into one’s pocket.
Very good.
Well I think this was the last question and we truly appreciate all of your attention and support and look forward to seeing you or hearing from you at least in three months from now.
Happy New Year again and we will talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today’s conference.
And have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the First Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
Following today’s presentation there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
Until then all lines will remain in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the Company today’s conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today’s conference host Ms.
Diana Reardon.
Ma’am you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
My name is Diana Reardon and I’m Amphenol’s CFO.
I’m here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO and we’d like to welcome everyone to our first quarter call.
Q1 results were released this morning.
I’ll provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends.
We’ll then have a question-and-answer session.
The company closed the first quarter with sales of $1.327 billion and $0.057 of earnings meeting the high-end of the Company’s guidance.
Sales were up 7% in U.S.
dollars and 11% in local currencies compared to Q1 of 2014.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency impacts sales in Q1 2015 were up 5%.
Sequentially sales were down 7% in U.S.
dollars and 6% organically from Q4 of 2014.
Breaking down sales into our two major components our cable business which comprise 6% of our sales in the quarter was down 3% from last year.
Our interconnect business which comprises 94% of our sales was up 17% from last year reflecting the benefits of both good organic growth and the company’s acquisition program.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Turning to operating income operating income increased to $260 million in the quarter.
Operating margin increased to 19.6% compared to 18.8% last year excluding one-time items a strong year-over-year conversion margin on incremental sales of 32%.
The increase of 80 basis points in operating margins over the prior year resulted from an increase in profitability in our interconnect business.
From a segment standpoint in the cable segment margins were 12.1% compared to 12.2% last quarter.
In the interconnect business margins were 21.8% up 90 basis points from 20.9% last year.
The improvement in ROS reflects excellent operating execution both organically and in our acquisitions in addition to aggressive cost management.
We’re very pleased with the Company’s operating margin achievement.
This excellent performance is a direct result of the strength and commitment of the company’s entrepreneurial management team which continues to foster a high performance action oriented culture in which each individual operating unit is able to appropriately adjust to market conditions and thereby maximize both growth and profitability in what clearly continues to be a very dynamic global environment.
To the careful fostering of such a culture and the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry leading operating margins and remained fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
Interest expense for the quarter was $17 million compared to $19 million last year reflecting the benefit of a lower average effective interest rate in the current quarter more than offsetting the impact of higher average debt levels resulting from the Company’s acquisition and stock buyback programs.
The lower average rate is the result of a new note issuance in September replacing a higher cost net maturity in November of last year and the implementation of a new commercial paper program.
Other income was $4.1 million in the quarter equal to last year and consists primarily of interest income on cash and short-term cash investments.
The Company’s effective tax rate excluding the impact of one-time items with 26.5% in both Q1 of 2015 and Q1 of 2014.
Including the impact of one-time items the 2014 rate was 26.4%.
Net income in the quarter was approximately 14% of sales and EPS excluding one-time items increased 14% an excellent performance.
On as reported basis earnings per share in the 2014 period included a charge of $2 million or $0.01 for acquisition related cost.
Orders in the quarter were $1.34 billion up 2% from last year resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 1.01 to 1.
The company continues to be a strong generator of cash.
Cash flow from operations was $188 million in the quarter or about 104% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
From a working capital standpoint inventory was $871 million at the end of the March up slightly from September.
Inventory days were 87 days up seven days from December levels and at the high end of our normal range.
The higher inventory level supports a future step up in certain parts of the business and we expect inventory days to decline going forward.
Accounts receivable was $1.1 billion at the end of March down about 3% from December.
Days sales outstanding were 75 days up four days from December and at the high end of our normal range.
Accounts payable was $583 million at the end of March down about 6% from December levels and payable days were 58 days up one day compared to December.
The cash flow from operations along with proceeds from our commercial paper program of $86 million and $20 million of proceeds from stock option exercises were used primarily to purchase $62 million of the Company’s common stock to fund net capital expenditures of $40 million to fund acquisition payments of $76 million relating both to the Invotec acquisition and the final payment on a 2014 acquisition and to fund $78 million in dividend payments during the quarter including the funding of both the Q1 and Q2 dividends.
During the quarter the company repurchased 1.1 million shares under its January 2015 10-million-share stock repurchase program and 8.9 million shares remain available at the end of March under the program which expires in January of 2017.
Cash and short-term investments were $1.4 billion at the end of March majority of which is held outside the U.S.
Our total debt was $2.8 billion bringing net debt at the end of the quarter to $1.4 billion.
The company had issued $753 million under its $1.5 billion commercial paper program at the end of the quarter and EBITDA for Q1 2015 was approximately $300 million.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent quarter.
Before I turn the call over to Adam I’d like to make a few comments relative to our guidance.
As noted in the press release we’ve updated our 2015 guidance range to sales of $5.50 million to $5.62 billion and earnings of $2.41 to $2.47.
This is a sales growth of 3% to 5% both in U.S.
dollars and organically and 7% to 9% from a local currency standpoint.
EPS growth is 7% to 10%.
This guidance is based on current exchange rates reflecting the negative impact of the significantly stronger dollar and the addition of the acquisition of Invotec which we closed in the quarter.
The negative translation impact caused by the significant strengthening of the dollar in relation in the euro and certain other currencies since our last guidance has been impact of reducing 2015 guidance by about $65 million in sales and about $0.03 in earnings.
For the full year 2015 compared to 2014 we now expect a drag of about $225 million or 4% of sales from the negative effects of translation and an impact of about $0.10 in earnings.
The Invotec acquisition that closed in the quarter adds about $30 million in sales and $0.01 in earnings.
From an organic growth perspective we’d increased our growth range from 2% to 5% in our previous guidance to 3% to 5% in our current guidance.
And Adam will talk about trends by market in more detail in a moment.
I would just add here that we have reflected some shift in demand in the wireless markets in our guidance.
Those wireless markets were previously expected to be relatively flat in 2015.
However we now expect a decline in the mobile network market in the low-teens and a high single-digit growth in sales in the mobile device market with the majority of that growth expected in the second half of 2015.
I will also just note relative to the Q2 guidance that from a sequential standpoint at the high end of guidance sales were up 2% in U.S.
dollars and 3% organically with the negative translation impact from the stronger dollar reducing sales by about 1%.
From an organic standpoint the 3% sequential growth in Q2 sales is somewhat lower than our normal seasonality.
This results from our current expectations that the wireless market will be relatively flat sequentially.
Historically both markets normally increased sequentially going into Q2.
However as I mentioned earlier we now see a softer demand in the mobile network market for the year and therefore do not expect the normal seasonal uptick in Q2.
And in the mobile devices market we now see a flat sequential performance in Q2 based primarily on program timing before a significant strengthening in the second half of 2015.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Diana.
And let me also add my welcome to those of you on the call today.
As Diana mentioned I’m going to highlight some of our first quarter achievements and then I’ll spend some time to discuss their trends and progress across our diverse served markets.
Then finally I’ll make a couple of comments on our outlook for the second quarter as well as for the full year.
With respect to the first quarter I’m just very pleased to report that our sales and EPS were both at the high end of guidance and that’s despite a challenging economic environment as well as the impact of the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
Our sales increased 7% from prior year in U.S.
dollars and 11% in local currencies reaching that $1.327 billion.
And orders at $1.340 billion were a book-to-bill of 1.01 to 1 which is an encouraging sign.
Our profitability in the quarter continues to be very strong as we generated operating margins of 19.6% which as Diana mentioned is an 80-basis-point increase from prior year.
And our EPS grew 14% from prior year essentially despite the rate of our sales growth.
I just want to say that I’m extremely proud of our global team who was once again able to react quickly to the many opportunities that are being created by the electronics revolution all the while exercising the discipline and drive necessary to achieve outstanding operating performance.
And I think our strong results in this first quarter once again demonstrate the benefits of the company’s outstanding entrepreneurial culture.
I’m very pleased in the quarter that we completed the acquisition of Invotec during the first quarter.
And Invotec is the leading UK based manufacturer of highly engineered harsh environment printed circuit boards flex circuits and related assemblies for the aerospace defense and industrial markets that has annual sales of roughly $35 million.
Importantly Invotec represents an outstanding complement to our North American PCB and flex circuit capabilities and positions us to take further advantage of the ongoing drive to proliferate this technology in important aerospace and industrial applications and that is a trend that we’re really seeing across our global customer base in that space.
We’re very excited to welcome the outstanding Invotec to Amphenol and we look forward to continuing to create value in the future with our very successful acquisition program.
Turning to our trends and progress across our served markets I just want to comment first that once again our balanced and broad end market diversification supported the Company’s excellent performance in the first quarter.
And we’re particularly pleased that no single market represented more than 18% of total sales in the quarter.
The fact that the company’s diversification across electronics industry and areas with the wide variety of technology requirements product lifecycles and underlying drivers has consistently been an underlying creator of long-term value for the company.
Turning to those markets first the military market represented 11% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales were flat the prior year in U.S.
dollars and increased by 3% in local currency led by increases in communications vehicle and rotorcraft related products.
Sequentially as we had expected sales were down into mid-single-digits.
Looking ahead for the second quarter we expect sales to increase moderately from these levels and we remain confident in achieving full year growth in constant currency in the military market.
That’s true that military budgets overall appear to have stabilized but at the same time they’re clearly not expanding.
Nevertheless our technology leadership and our broad program participation have enabled us to realize the growth we experienced in the first quarter and have positioned the company to benefit long term from the expanding adoption of electronics in military hardware as well as from stronger spending trends in emerging geographies.
So commercial aviation market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales were up slightly in local currency and declined by 6% in U.S.
dollars on what was positive growth rates of the components used in the production by the leading aircraft manufacturers.
Sequentially sales reduced seasonally by 7% on lower production volumes.
Despite this moderating rate of growth we remain confident that our commercial air sales will grow in the second quarter from these first quarter levels and for the full year we continue to expect to achieve robust organic growth in particular with the anticipated second half ramp-up of certain new airplane platforms.
The world’s airlines continue to demand planes that are more fuel-efficient and that created passenger flying experience leaving aircraft manufacturers to incorporate an increasing range of complex new technologies into their latest generation airliners.
We extremely are well positioned to enable these technologies with our Interconnect value-add cable and printed circuit assemblies and cable management products.
This combination creates an exciting long-term expansion opportunity for Amphenol.
The industrial market represented 18% of our sales in the quarter which is strong growth of 10% in U.S.
dollars and 13% in local currency compared to prior year and 3% in local currency sequentially.
This increase in our sales was driven by excellent performance in the heavy equipment alternative energy and medical segments as well as by contributions from the Goldstar acquisition that we completed in the fourth quarter.
And that growth was partially offset by an expected decline in sales to oil and gas customers that’s related to lower levels of exploration and drilling due to the recently reduced commodity prices.
Looking ahead we expect sales in the industrial market to increase from these levels in the second quarter and we continue to anticipate a double-digit sales growth in local currencies for the full year 2015.
Long term we look forward to realizing the benefits of our broad industrial interconnect and sensor product offerings together with our diversified presence across the many exciting segments of the global industrial market.
The automotive market represented 18% of our sales in the quarter and we experienced again a significant increase in sales from prior year growing 31% and 14% organically as we continue to benefit from the Casco acquisition made last year in the third quarter.
And as we grew our sales of new products used in telematics emissions management and drive train control applications.
Sales were essentially flat sequentially in U.S.
dollars but they grew by 4% on a local currency basis from the fourth quarter.
We’re very pleased to be continuing to outgrow the overall automotive electronics market as we capitalize on our broadened suite of interconnect and sensor technologies which are being incorporated into a wide array of new and complex vehicle electronics.
With the additions of techbox Advance Sensors in Casco during the last 18 months we have significantly expanded our product offering across a wide array of new electronics applications in cars.
In addition we have organically expanded into a variety of new discreet connectors and advanced value-add interconnect systems thereby positioning the Company for continued excellent long-term growth.
Looking towards the second quarter we expect sales in the automotive market to increase further from these levels and we continue to look forward to an excellent 2015 and beyond for this exciting business.
The mobile devices market represented 15% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased 5% from prior year and declined as we had expected by roughly 28% sequentially driven by post-holiday seasonality.
I can just say I’m so proud of our mobile devices team who had once again quickly flex their resources given these significant volume changes all while still preserving strong operating performance as well as very importantly preserving the ability to expand our capacity for growth expected in the second half of 2015.
This organizational agility remains a core advantage of Amphenol in the extremely dynamic mobile devices market.
As Diana mentioned while we expect sales to remain at current levels in the second quarter we now have a more positive view of the demand potential in the mobile devices market in the second half of this year.
Thus we now anticipate achieving growth for the full year of 2015 somewhere in the mid-single digits.
And we remain confident that despite the ever-changing landscape across the mobile devices market our leading technology preferred supplier relationships with a broad range of device markers and most importantly the excellent execution of our outstanding agile organization positions us extremely well for the future.
The mobile networks market represented 9% of our sales in the quarter and sales declined as we had expected by about 9% from prior year in U.S.
dollars and 4% in the local currencies and by 5% sequentially as operators further moderated their network build-out activities in most geographies after last year’s significant infrastructure investments.
As Diana mentioned earlier based on the latest information that we received from our OEM and service provider customers we now expect only a slight increase from these demand levels in the second quarter if not flat performance and due anticipate a decline in our mobile network sales for the full year of 2015.
Regardless of these more muted sales expectations we remain extremely well-positioned in the mobile networks market and are thus very confident that with our industry-leading breadth of interconnect and antenna products we will continue to participate broadly in ongoing next-generation mobile network deployments around the world.
The information technology and datacom market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter and sales in this market increased by a greater than expected 6% from prior year due to strengthening sales of our wide range of high-speed products incorporated into a broad range of data center equipment.
Sequentially our sales were flat due to a seasonally stronger fourth quarter.
And looking ahead to the second quarter we expect sales to grow slightly from these levels and we continue to anticipate full-year growth in the IT datacom market in the mid-single-digits.
This IT market is really undergoing a rapid transformation as cloud and web service providers are driving new innovations across the entire architecture of data centers really around the world.
Amidst this dynamic environment we remain encouraged by our industry-leading high-speed and power products our preferred relationships with leading equipment suppliers and our enhanced and direct focus on service provider and data center customers all of which have created a platform for us to continue to outperform in the future in this important market.
The broadband communications market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter.
And as we had expected sales declined slightly from prior year on the moderation of spending from U.S.
cable operators and were essentially flat to the fourth quarter.
While we do expect a slight increase in demand in the second quarter we now expect more moderate growth in the broadband markets for the full year 2015.
As there really remains the heightened level of uncertainty in the capital spending plans of many of the MSO satellite and telecommunication customers in the space and that’s in particular given the several high profile industry mergers which are still at this stage pending after a long time.
Nevertheless we remain confident that we will realize long-term success in this market due to our proven capability to create innovative solutions for our customers in support of the rapid growth of especially high speed data delivery.
As we drive further efforts to create these enabling technologies we look forward to maintaining our leadership position in the broadband market.
So in summary with respect for the first quarter I’m just extremely proud of the Amphenol organization as we once again executed very well in a challenging and dynamic environment.
Our continued strong performance in 2015 is another clear reflection of the Company’s distinct competitive advantages our broad range of leading technologies our balanced and comprehensive market diversification our worldwide presence and our lean and flexible cost structure.
But above all of these strengths simply our greatest asset remains a high performance culture that is reinforced everyday by Amphenol’s agile entrepreneurial management team.
Now turning to outlook and just to reiterate some of the comments Diana made there continues to still be significant uncertainties across the global marketplace that’s reflected in part by the ongoing weakening of certain overseas currencies.
Accordingly and based on a continuation of these current economic conditions and assuming also that exchange rates remain stable at these latest levels we now expect in the second quarter and the full year 2015 the following results.
For the second quarter we expect sales in the range of $1.315 billion to $1.355 billion and EPS in the range of $0.56 to $0.58 respectively.
This represents a sales increase versus prior year of flat to 3% in U.S.
dollars and 5% to 8% in local currency and an EPS increase of 4% to 7%.
For the full year of 2015 we expect sales in the range of $5.5 billion to $5.62 billion which is an increase of 3% to 5% in U.S.
dollars and 7% to 9% in local currencies.
And we expect 2015 EPS of $2.41 to $2.47 which represents an increase of 7% to 10% over 2014 excluding one-time items.
We are very encouraged by the Company’s continued strong outlook in sales and earnings especially given the many uncertainties in the global marketplace and it is really the ongoing revolution in electronics that continue to create tremendous opportunities for Amphenol.
And I’m very confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities to grow our market position and to expand our profitability and thereby to drive continued superior performance for the Company in 2015 and beyond.
With that operator we’d be very happy to take any questions.
Thank you.
Participants we’ll now begin the question-and-answer session.
And our first question comes from the line of Jim Suva of Citi.
Your line is open.
Thank you and congratulations to your team at Amphenol.
Really great result especially considering the currency and the changes.
Thank you.
Diana and Adam can you help us understand a little bit more granularity on your comments around the mobility? You mentioned some softness.
Is this broad based global is it geographic is it more like smartphone handset or tablet or notebook or how should we think about that commentary? Yes.
Jim thank you very much.
I think we talked about mobility and mobile from two standpoints.
One is the mobile networks markets where we do have a more moderate view of that market as well as the mobile devices market where I think we have somewhat stronger view than we previously had.
So I assume what you’re asking is relative to our comments on mobile networks.
And in mobile networks I think what we have seen is last year there was just tremendous performance in that market.
You know that we grew last year by 24% over prior year which is really far in excess of many of the statistics that one saw coming out of equipment manufacturers or the various capital spending results of the operators around the world and I think that was just a great confirmation of the efforts that we’ve made over many years to broaden our product offering in support of these new technologies in these next generation systems.
But no doubt about it that was a lot of build out that happened last year and I think what we’re seeing on a global basis really is that the operators are really working to digest those investments in particular here in the first half but even throughout the year more maybe than we would have thought previously.
From a regional standpoint last year we saw good growth in all of the regions probably saw a little bit better in Asia but we had strong double-digit growth in every region.
I think in this quarter we probably saw a bit more magnified reductions in Europe and some reductions in North America.
We actually still saw some element of continued strength on a year-over-year basis in Asia.
I think for the full year we would probably anticipate that all the regions would still be in that kind of digestion phase of their investments.
But perhaps maybe Europe would be a little bit weaker than Asia for example.
Relative to mobile devices again we are seeing more strength in that space and that just comes down to our organization’s fantastic ability to continue to win programs at the leading device manufacturers.
I think we did talked about last year that we saw a little bit worst performance last year in tablets a little bit better performance maybe in things like ultrabooks and we’ve seen good performance with some of the new smartphone manufacturers as well as some of the accessories around those products.
And I think that those trends are largely continuing coming into 2015 and we probably wouldn’t expect a much different performance across that market this year.
Great.
And as a very quick follow-up your acquisition.
A lot of times when we hear printed circuit board companies we think they’re a very low margin business.
Am I correct by assuming that this company is a lot more than just printed circuit boards and lot higher value add and maybe give us a little bit of a flavor or color into if that’s a [ph] correct statement more than just printed circuit boards.
Now this is an outstanding question Jim.
And it’s very true that there is a whole industry of printed circuit boards and that’s not an industry that we have in large part participated in.
But we do have a business in very high reliability harsh environment printed circuits be it flex or rigid flex or rigid boards and the related assemblies that is really active in the military area space and industrial space.
And that’s what this company is.
And so it’s by no means a big entry into printed circuits rather it’s a continuation of our approach to present a total interconnect solutions for those very high-reliability application that we see in particular in aerospace military and industrial.
One trend that we have seen and we have been really one of the drivers of that trend from a very high technology standpoint is there are applications in particular in those harsh environments where traditionally those have been managed through big cable bundles.
And that those cable bundles are over timed in certain of those applications being migrated towards a more of a printed circuit technology that integrates connectors and integrate that whole assembly and allows the customers to have a better vibration proof and a more kind of certainty of the application than they would have had in the past.
That’s a very very long term trend that we see and it’s one that we’re really at the forefront of working with leading customers around the world on enabling.
Previously we had that capability predominantly in North America and the Invotec acquisition gives us that high value-add high technology opportunity to support customers also in Europe.
And so it’s very very much consistent with that strategy.
You could call it a little bit of a niche strategy in that broader printed circuit area but it’s very complementary to our overall value-add interconnect offering to those customers.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Sherri Scribner of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Diana I just wanted to bridge the full-year revenue guidance versus what you’ve said a couple of months ago to what you’re saying now.
It looks like you add the acquisition back.
You add the modestly [ph] you had this quarter and then you take out the FX impact it’s mostly the same guidance.
I just want to make sure that I’m understanding that correctly it seems like mostly that changes the acquisition and FX impact.
Sure.
I think that’s the right way to look at it.
I think at the high end that’s exactly right.
It’s the same guidance adjusted for FX impact and adding in the Invotec acquisition.
And from a low end of guidance we’ve increased the range from 2% to 5% organic growth to 3% to 5%.
So I think the way you’ve described is correct.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I guess just for the second quarter guidance it seems a little – it seems like the seasonality is a bit less than you would typically see.
Usually you see sales increased sort of in the mid-single-digit.
On a sequential basis what’s really driving that? And then I guess what’s the strengths that drives growth in the second half of the year? Obviously mobile devices to some extent I just want to get a little more color.
Thanks.
Sure.
I think as I said in my prepared remarks we expect in the second quarter to look sequentially.
We expect not to see the normal sequential increase in the wireless market.
The wireless network market due to the fact that we now see a year-over-year decline in that market and I think Adam just described pretty well what is going on there.
In terms of the mobile device market we actually do have a more positive view of that market and expect now that that market will be up in the mid-single-digit – range for the year.
But in the second quarter due to program timing again we expect that market to be flat.
And then as we move into Q3 and Q4 the second half of the year we expect to see a significant strengthening in that market.
And that’s why you see a little bit less than what our normal sequential seasonality would be in Q2 and we’ll have a little bit higher than normal seasonality if you will when we move into Q3 in the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison of Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
I guess kind of going back to the first question is on mobile twofold on devices am I correct is it solely content gains which give you the bullish view on the second half of the year versus a better volume outlook for the device market? And then second on networks is it – is there an inventory issue of Amphenol products or is it that there’s an inventory issue of end products being put into the market? I just wanted to be clear on that versus just lack of deployment of base stations and associated equipment for the year.
Shawn thank you very much.
Just relative to mobile devices it’s hard for us to always say is it content gains? Is it new wins on new programs? Is it more content on programs that we already had content? I think the best is to say that we’re doing an excellent job of maximizing our content on as many devices as we can and we have a lot of devices in the space.
So to sort of parse it out and say which is content and which is totally new things and which are volume expectations.
But I think that the team is just doing a fabulous job to gain position on coming programs in which we have a lot of confidence as well on programs that we really start to see and start to really see in the pipeline.
Relative to mobile networks I mean I don’t know necessarily that I would call it an inventory although there certainly may be end inventory in the channel of base stations and things like that.
I mean that’s very common when you have a big capital spending year followed by some reductions and that some of the equipment manufacturers may very well have some inventory.
But I think if you just look at the capital spending plan that are widely reported there are many of those that do reflect some significant downturns.
I think there are some of those operators as well who are also involved in some of these broadly reported corporate mergers and whether that is keeping some governor on their spending plans.
That’s something they know that I don’t know.
But there are certainly some moving pieces going on strategically in the industry.
I think all that being said we feel that our position in that space that our position with customers is really stronger than it was before and one thing I’ll say is when you look at our performance last year we did such a fabulous job in a time of high growth than demand to satisfy customers.
They don’t forget that.
They really don’t forget it.
And so when that spending comes and it will come they will always remember who was there for them and who reacted quickly who didn’t caused their crews to not have the parts when they needed them in the field.
And that will reflect positively on our ability to continue to gain position in the mobile networks market long-term.
Very helpful and if I may just may one brief follow-up it seems as if private party multiples – private market multiples on sensor companies has gone a bit sky-high over the past six to 12 months is that anyway change your thinking about the opportunities in that market near-term knowing that you guys are typically a very stood acquirer? Pretty safe to compliment look we’re not a bottom feeder we are still an acquirer we pay fair multiple for a good companies and we have bought many companies in many different valuation cycles.
So whether there are a few data points over the last twelve months that reflect may be higher multiples than we would necessarily have paid does that change the landscape for Amphenol? Absolutely not we continue to have a fabulous reputation among sellers both financial sponsor sellers as well as real owner managers of companies.
As a company that does what it says keeps it word executes quickly pays a fair price and is a fabulous home ultimately for those companies.
And I think that that’s the one who pays only the highest price doesn’t win in every instance.
There are some instances where they do win and if someone wants to pay a much higher price than us in certain occasions we’ll be happily not buying those companies.
But I think that there still remain a lot opportunities for us to acquire great companies using our consistent methodology which hasn’t changed over the years.
And we have not chased kind of market multiples as you know very well regardless of what cycle that we’re in.
We view this as a real long-term game.
When you’re buying a company you’re buying it in our world that leads for life.
And you don’t sort of buy opportunistically when things are cheap and not buy when things are expensive and you don’t only buy because of short-term dynamics that are at play.
We feel very confident that long-term we are going to continue to be successful across the broad range of companies that we want to acquire that includes interconnect as well as sensor companies.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Sherri Scribner of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Diana I just wanted to bridge the full-year revenue guidance versus what you’ve said a couple of months ago to what you’re saying now.
It looks like you add the acquisition back.
You add the modest beat that you had this quarter and then you take out the FX impact.
It’s mostly the same guidance.
I just want to make sure that I’m understanding that correctly.
It seems like mostly the change is the acquisition and FX impact.
Sure.
I think that’s the right way to look at it.
I think at the high end that’s exactly right.
It’s the same guidance adjusted for FX impact and adding in the Invotec acquisition.
And from a low end of guidance we’ve increased the range from 2% to 5% organic growth to 3% to 5%.
So I think the way you’ve described is correct.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I guess just for the second quarter guidance it seems a little – it seems like the seasonality is a bit less than you would typically see.
Usually you see sales increased sort of in the mid-single-digit.
On a sequential basis what’s really driving that? And then I guess what’s the strengths that drives growth in the second half of the year? Obviously mobile devices to some extent I just want to get a little more color.
Thanks.
Sure.
I think as I said in my prepared remarks we expect in the second quarter to look sequentially.
We expect not to see the normal sequential increase in the wireless market.
The wireless network market due to the fact that we now see a year-over-year decline in that market and I think Adam just described pretty well what is going on there.
In terms of the mobile device market we actually do have a more positive view of that market and expect now that that market will be up in the mid-single-digit – range for the year.
But in the second quarter due to program timing again we expect that market to be flat.
And then as we move into Q3 and Q4 the second half of the year we expect to see a significant strengthening in that market.
And that’s why you see a little bit less than what our normal sequential seasonality would be in Q2 and we’ll have a little bit higher than normal seasonality if you will when we move into Q3 in the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison of Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
I guess kind of going back to the first question on mobile twofold on devices am I correct is it solely content gains which give you the bullish view on the second half of the year versus a better volume outlook for the device market? And then second on networks is it – is there an inventory issue of Amphenol products or is it that there’s an inventory issue of end products being put into the market? I just wanted to be clear on that versus just lack of deployment of base stations and associated equipment for the year.
Shawn thank you very much.
Just relative to mobile devices it’s hard for us to always say is it content gains? Is it new wins on new programs? Is it more content on programs that we already had content? I think the best is to say that we’re doing an excellent job of maximizing our content on as many devices as we can and we have a lot of devices in the space.
So to sort of parse it out and say which is content and which is totally new things and which are volume expectations.
But I think that the team is just doing a fabulous job to gain position on coming programs in which we have a lot of confidence as well on programs that we really start to see and start to really see in the pipeline.
Relative to mobile networks I mean I don’t know necessarily that I would call it an inventory although there certainly may be end inventory in the channel of base stations and things like that.
I mean that’s very common when you have a big capital spending year followed by some reductions and that some of the equipment manufacturers may very well have some inventory.
But I think if you just look at the capital spending plan that are widely reported there are many of those that do reflect some significant downturns.
I think there are some of those operators as well who are also involved in some of these broadly reported corporate mergers and whether that is keeping some governor on their spending plans.
That’s something they know that I don’t know.
But there are certainly some moving pieces going on strategically in the industry.
I think all that being said we feel that our position in that space that our position with customers is really stronger than it was before and one thing I’ll say is when you look at our performance last year we did such a fabulous job in a time of high growth than demand to satisfy customers.
They don’t forget that.
They really don’t forget it.
And so when that spending comes and it will come they will always remember who was there for them and who reacted quickly who didn’t caused their crews to not have the parts when they needed them in the field.
And that will reflect positively on our ability to continue to gain position in the mobile networks market long-term.
Very helpful and if I may just one brief follow-up.
It seems as if private market multiples on sensor companies has gone a bit sky high over the past six to 12 months is that anyway change your thinking about the opportunities in that market near-term knowing that you guys are typically a very stood acquirer? Well I appreciate the complement.
Look we are not a bottom feeder.
We are a stood acquirer.
We paid fair multiples for good companies and we have bought many companies and many different valuation cycles.
So whether there are a few data points over the last 12 months that reflect maybe higher multiples than we would necessarily have paid because that changed the landscape for Amphenol absolutely not.
We continue to have a fabulous reputation amongst sellers both financial sponsor sellers as well as real owner owner managers of companies as a company that does what it says keeps its word executes quickly pays a fair price and is a fabulous home ultimately for those companies.
And I think that thus the one who pays only the highest price doesn’t win in every instance.
There are some instances where they do win.
And if someone wants to pay a much higher price than us in certain occasions we will be happily not buying those companies.
But I think that there still remain a lot of opportunities for us to acquire great companies using our consistent methodology which hasn’t changed over the years.
And we have not chase kind of market multiples as you know very well regardless of what cycle that we’re in.
We view this as a real long-term gain.
When you’re buying a company you’re buying it in our world at least for life.
And you don’t just sort of buy opportunistically when things are cheap and not buy when things are expensive.
And you don’t – you only buy because of short-term dynamics that are at play.
We feel very confident that long term we’re going to continue to be successful across the broad range of companies that we want to acquire that includes interconnect as well as center companies.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Daryanani of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys.
Thank you.
Two questions from me one Adam I was wondering if you can just touch on this mobile devices trend that you expect in the back half of is there a lot of breadth to the strength that you guys are expecting or is it really driven by one or two customers because this is historically at least being a fairly volatile part and for you guys in the past.
I’m just trying to get a sense of how good the breadth is from a customer basis on the back half.
Well look I think we’ve always said and I wouldn’t say anything different this year that our breadth in that market is relatively reflective of the overall breadth of who is successful and who’s not successful in the space.
And so I think I wouldn’t say anything different about our outlook for this year.
It is a market where there are always winners and losers of the day.
And sometimes those are different winners and different losers of yesterday and different winners and different losers of tomorrow.
But it is a relatively concentrated market as it relates to who’s winning at a given moment.
And I think from that standpoint our guidance is consistent with how we have always approached that market.
I think we have a strong position across a lot of different products product types as well.
I mean it’s not just phones it’s not just tablets it’s not just ultrabooks I mean there’s accessories and other things that go along with those.
And I think our team has just done a fabulous job on their continued mission to diversify our presence in that space as best one can in the space where there are always winners and losers.
Got it.
And then just on the automotive side your revenue growth the organic trends have been well ahead of what I think order production in content number would suggest.
So if we could just talk a little bit of what’s driving that? And then are you starting to get benefits from cross-selling opportunities with the GE sensor assets you guys acquired? Is that something tangible difference in your revenue line over there? Yes it’s a very great point.
I mean we’re just so proud of this market and how that’s performed.
I mean just to think over the last half a decade here.
I mean six years ago Q1 of 2009 this market was 5% 6% of sales and here it is this quarter 18% of sales.
Really a historical high for us across that balanced diversification that we have.
And I think if I look at why we continue to outperform I mentioned in my remarks earlier that we really see two main pillars of that.
One is we’ve made a lot of great acquisitions.
And over the course of the last five years we’ve acquired just a great range of really interesting really high technology high performance companies ranging from companies that are involved in field connectors to companies involved in automotive lighting to companies involved in data com and power connectivity in the car to sensor companies.
And I think that those acquisitions have really rounded out our high value product offering at the same time as the other pillar has been a real focus on organic growth and driving products into new applications in the car not trying to take share from the traditional players but really capitalizing on new applications new electronics new functionalities that comes into the car.
And so ultimately as it gets to that sort of cross-selling automotive is not a market where things slip on a dime.
At the same time if I think over the last five years have we benefited from cross-selling of some of those acquisitions that we have brought on and have those become drivers of really renewed organic growth for the company? No question about it.
But that does take time.
And so now to your question of does the sensor company which we acquired 16 months ago in the case of Advanced Sensors or Casco roughly less than half a year ago have those started to create meaningful material impacts to sales? I wouldn’t say that they’re material impacts to sales when I say that we have seen meaningful progress in finding those opportunities absolutely.
When do those ultimately translate into kind of moving the needle on a revenue standpoint? There is a certain time horizon to that in the automotive industry whatever that may be once in three years.
And I fully expect given the great progress that our team has managed to achieve that we will see that impact long-term.
But I wouldn’t necessarily say that our results this quarter have any meaningful impact from cross-selling of sensors but they clearly have meaningful impact from cross-selling of other things that we’ve acquired over the last six years.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Delaney of Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is open.
Great.
Good afternoon and thanks so much for taking my questions.
Thank you.
For the first question Adam I was hoping you could help provide some perspective on some of the trends you’re seeing in the industrial end market and I know you commented on weakness in the oil and gas area specifically as you had anticipated but I wanted to see if you’ve seen slowdown in any of your other industrial end markets given some of the weaker data points we’ve seen this earnings season from some of the big industrial companies.
Sure.
Well thank you very much.
Obviously we did talk about oil and gas and I think that’s the real sort of the industrial market the one that’s no doubt in the headlines with the broadly reported price of oil and the resulting slowdown in some of the drilling and extraction and the exploration activities there.
And like anybody else we’re not immune to that slowdown and that had certainly had some impact.
I mean fortunately for us we’re not leveraged on to one or another part of the industrial market.
We have a very diversified industrial market across things like heavy equipment alternative energy lighting machine tool factory automation rail mass transit.
And I think I mentioned where we saw really the strength in the quarter.
We saw that great strength in heavy equipment and that heavy equipment strength was not just because of some acquisition that we made with Goldstar but also we saw outstanding performance in heavy equipment organically where we’ve just made great progress really in taking stronger position with customers in the off-road and heavy equipment market.
We’ve seen fantastic performance in alternative energy where our team there has just done such a fabulous job in what is not an easy market.
I mean solar and wind energy and the other sort of ancillary alternative energies.
Some of those can be very tough markets but we have an organization that just focuses on that space drives costs down and takes share with important customers around the world.
And they’ve done a great job.
We’ve done a great job in things like lighting and machine tool as well.
I think the only space where we maybe saw a little bit of downturn besides oil and gas wasn’t quite as robust in factory automation although in local currencies it was relatively flat.
But otherwise I think we’ve seen pretty broad-based growth in our industrial market.
Yes.
Thanks.
I appreciate the perspective there.
And for a follow-up question on gross margins I know gross margins have gone back to 32% which is a good number and I think that’s been a level that are high after several years.
I think the last time you guys were there were at 2010 2011.
As you look out into the second half of the year if we think about mobile device revenue mix maybe increasing is that something that’s going to put some downward pressure on gross margin or are there other things that can maybe offset what I would expect would maybe be some mix headwinds for 2H? I think that we would more talk about operating income margin.
I think as we’ve said before on prior calls we really don’t manage the gross margin or the SG&amp;A line.
We look at operating income margin and I think that they are within the market we participate in they are certainly to your point a different mix of gross margin and SG&amp;A but it’s the operating income I think that we all care about at the end of the day.
From an operating income standpoint we had certainly very good performance here in the first quarter in line with what our expectations are.
We had a very strong year-over-year conversion margin on incremental sales.
I think the guidance as we’ve laid that out has again good conversion margins in the remainder of the year.
It implies an increase in ROS levels as we go through the year and so we feel very good about what the trajectory of that profitability will be during 2015 and that fully incorporates that mix that you refer to with a stronger mobile device market in the second half.
So again we feel very good about the profitability profile that we expect to see in 2015 and expansion in ROS levels.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Amitabh Passi of UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Adam I have a couple of questions on the IT data com segment.
Looks like sales are sort of stabilizing over the last three quarters or so just wondering are you starting to see somewhat stability with your OEM customers or do you continue to see your business skew more towards the web-scale companies? Yes thank you very much Amitabh.
I think stabilized we’re happy to see actually pretty strong growth in that space this quarter.
We grew 7% for the year.
I think I guided that we expect to have that IT data com grow mid-single digits for the year and I think we’re doing that at a time when you continue to not see such robust growth at least coming out of the publicly traded hardware OEMs around the world.
So I think from that standpoint we are – really continue to gain position in the IT data com space.
There is no question that we have really expanded our activities around working with as you call it the web-scale providers or we call it kind of the data center web service provider customer base.
And I think that’s a real pivot that we have had to make and in typical Amphenol fashion that’s a pivot that we make very quickly because that’s kind of one of the great advantages of our entrepreneurial organization is that agility that we’re able to exercise.
We don’t have to kind of completely restructure ourselves to pivot towards a new trend in that market.
And I think as I mentioned earlier we do see in the IT datacom market quite a significant transformation happening and I think I call it kind of a re-architecting almost of how you work in that IT datacom space and I just think our team has done a fantastic job in capitalizing upon that not just reacting to it but really capitalizing upon that change.
I think where we have seen real progress is in our real leading offering of high speed products as well as with our outstanding power solutions that go into that market and the high speed no doubt about it is such a critical feature.
Whether you are a traditional OEM a traditional enterprise data center or a web service provider the amount of data that people are trying to crank through their systems and really pump out is just increasing at phenomenal phenomenal rates.
I mean I see it in my own TV.
I had a technician in my house last night because I can barely watch Netflix right now because it’s just stopping and starting all the time and it just shows me again the phenomenal potential and the growth that is coming and here I am I’m watching Netflix at most an hour a week and for that one hour if it stops and starts it really is frustrating.
And there’s real value that is created for the end customers and thereby for the operators and the equipment manufacturers by creating high speed solutions that ultimately can support a much better pipe of data.
And so I think from that standpoint it’s a question of really that pivoting towards the new reality of the market together with the continued investment of our leading high speed and power products that have positioned us for the growth that we’ve seen this quarter and that we expect this year.
That was helpful Adam.
And just a quick follow-up there’s some excitement in the market around standardizing 25-gig.
Is that a meaningful needle mover for you guys or in the grand scheme of things would have been noise [ph] I’m just trying to get a sense of how big 25-gig could be potentially for your business.
Yes.
I mean 25-gig is something we’ve actually been developing inhibiting for I don’t know feels like almost eight years now that we’ve been talking about creating and have created interconnect solutions to support 25-gig.
The reality is we’re working on interconnect solutions just well beyond 25-gig.
And one of the reasons for that is that the interconnect sometimes outlast the silicon in these devices.
I mean you can imagine an environment where boxes are being built and they want to change our cards in that box with the latest speed upgrade.
But you got to still put it through the connectors that are residing for example in the backplane or the midplane of such a system.
And so we have always pride ourselves on creating high speed solutions that gives headroom beyond where the customers want to go in today.
And so it’s true that there’s maybe a lot of more publicized talk about 25-gig.
For us we’re talking about things like 56-gig and 100-gig and beyond right now because we need to think far in advance such that when our customers design our product into their core architecture they’ve got room to expand in the future.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Wood of Macquarie Group.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
First question on order growth can you just remind us – you were looking for that end market for the full year.
I think you may have mentioned low double-digit previously.
And with the growth rates in auto be primarily determined by product launches or is it really customer decisions with upgrading to a specific add-ons when they make the car purchase? Thank you very much Mike.
Yes.
I think we have guided for that market to be growing in the low-double-digit.
I don’t know if I’ve given specific number but it’s somewhere in the low-teens I would estimate organically… Organic.
Yes.
Yes from organic.
Obviously we have much higher expectations because of the acquisitions that we made last year.
I think we would see in a local currency basis growth sort of more in the kind of 25% 30% range for the year.
Relative to timing you have a couple of dynamics in play.
Certainly we have good content on new platforms and many times you work for many years on a new system that’s integrated into a new platform and that has a certain ramp cycle to it.
But in addition to that what we have started to see more of over the recent years is what I would call mid-cycle upgrades.
And those mid-cycle upgrades would be things like lighting and onboard electronics where the electronics industry is just moving in a much faster pace than the automotive industry has traditionally moved.
And I think the auto companies have recognized that there are certain feature sets in the car that they can’t wait five years for a platform upgrade to implement.
I mean you’d see it even in any car you drive you buy it with a GPS system and within six months that GPS already feels kind of old and clergy [ph].
And I think that that is the dynamic that the car companies they’re really facing up too quickly.
And so we have seen a few more of what I would call mid-platform upgrades which don’t coincide with that traditional kind of second half of the year product launch that you would normally see in car companies.
And so I think that it’s maybe not quite as magnified to those platform launches as it has been traditionally.
Great and then more than 30% conversion in March on the interconnect business was that upside relative to your long-term goals from the improvement on the acquired companies notably Advanced Sensors.
So does that have a similar impact embedded in our 2Q guidance? Sure.
I think from a year-over-year standpoint that’s 32% conversion margin had contributions from both of those things.
So I think to your point the acquisition program did come along very well during 2014 as we talked about last year and coming into this year so there is a positive impact there.
But the base business or the core business also performed very well from an operational and execution standpoint on that incremental volume.
And so I think we’re getting a contribution from both of those things that you’re seeing in the Q1 profitability level.
And I would say as we work our way through 2015 I think that would also be true where we expect both our base business and the acquired companies to continue to execute well and to continue to move up that scale from a profitability perspective.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fox of Cross Research.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Two questions from me one just a quick check on your DSOs being up four days for the quarter.
I wasn’t quite clear on whether you were saying that there’s a slightly higher level or whether you think that number comes down in the next couple of quarters.
And then secondly Adam can you just talk a little bit more about the broadband business given it’s never been a huge growth area for you organically and some of the things you just talked about seem to suggest that it could be headed for some more muted growth for a while and you have fixed costs that are my understanding is very well associated just with that business.
What is it that that keeps you in it today versus maybe looking out a year or two? Maybe I’ll just start with the DSO question.
Yes.
Thank you.
To your point and as I said the DSO was at the high end of our normal range at the end of Q1 and DSO and payable days are a little bit harder because you can get the end of the quarter sometimes and if you do have a day or two either way.
But I think that over time we would expect I think that to come back down more to the midpoint of our range and it can range anywhere from 70 days to 77 days probably at the end of a quarter.
But we would expect that that would work its way back down towards that midpoint.
Yes.
And Steve relative to the broadband business it’s true that right now we would certainly prefer to have them more robust growth outlook for the business and last year that business was slightly down on a year-over-year basis.
Why are we in that business? And I’ve said it before and I’ll just reiterate it today we believe that it’s very important for the company to participate in all aspects of the electronics industry and that includes in all aspects of how people get Internet and high speed data.
And the broadband remains one of the top ways that high speed data is delivered to homes and businesses around this country and many others.
And we have just an outstanding position in that space and I think our team has done an excellent job to diversify our products such that we’re no longer simply just a cable on a real company that we were many years ago.
It’s very true that right now that industry is going through a lot of change.
I mean you have the very widely reported mergers that are still lingering and delayed.
Then who knows ultimately whether they get approved.
You can imagine that that causes a pause in the purchasing activities of customers.
But we saw a very similar dynamic for close to three years in our wireless networks business and I talked all along about the fact that there was building a pent-up demand in the wireless networks market and ultimately that pent-up demand which we continue to focus on gaining position we continue to position on gaining technology breadth in that space ultimately last year we were able to realize fantastic growth in that space as the operators ultimately realized that they had to satisfy some of that pent-up demand.
What kind of pent-up demand is being created in the broadband space? I mean I can only speak out of personal anecdotes of how terrible that service is in certain areas and you can imagine that as that business shakes out in particularly in the United States that one could imagine a scenario where the build-out activity strengthens again.
And we’re not a company that is just living by the short-term of what’s happening in that market in a given year.
We have long-term conviction that it’s great to be in a space where we have a high technology leadership position in an area that is delivering one of the best delivery systems for high speed data that anyone knows today.
So what will it be this year? We have a more muted expectation.
We anticipate a little bit of growth this year.
What will it end up being next year? Time will tell.
But one day will there be a necessity for investment in that space an investment where Amphenol will be a participant in that? We certainly have that long-term conviction.
Fair enough.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you Steve.
I appreciate it.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Hettenbach of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thank you.
Adam question on the sensors business.
If you think through the strategy there can you give a little context in terms of how much is push versus pull in terms of some of your customers perhaps pulling you into discussions in terms of what you can offer at this point and what the implications are for the growth there? Sure.
I mean look I ‘m not going to tell you that in any of our businesses customers just come screaming and knock down the door.
I mean we got people out there knocking lots of doors.
And so in every one of our business we’re going to push hard and that’s true certainly in the sensor business as well.
I think to the extent that there is a pull it’s a pull that happened internally in Amphenol where we have fabulous relationships with certain customers in certain segments of either the industrial or the automotive market in particular where we don’t have a sensor relationship.
And through that wonderful dialogue that we have with our ongoing relationship from an interconnect standpoint we pull in the sensor team to talk about a collaborative drive whether that is a new integrated product or whether that is just a totally new product that the customers says hey now that you have that sensor let’s talk.
What’s the genesis of that conversation? Is that the customer taking up to notice there is it our sales person promoting it or our engineering team promoting it I have a hard time to say which is push and which is pull.
But no question there’s a lot of dialogue happening at customers across those spaces.
And the customers that I have had the good fortune to visit they just are really happy that a company in whom they have so much confidence like Amphenol now can offer them a broader solution of interconnect of sensors and of antennas which are all products that are real growth areas for customers in most of those spaces.
You talked about something like the Internet of Things which is a very often bantered about almost cliché these days.
Ultimately this Internet of Things as it’s reflected in places like industrial and automotive and otherwise is a network of sensors with antennas and interconnect on them.
And there’s very few companies very very few who can say they’re really a leader in all three spaces and that’s something that we can say very strongly to our customers around the world.
And I think ultimately that will create long-term value for the company and for those customers.
And does it start with a push or a pull it doesn’t really matters as much as in the end that we win it.
Got it.
Maybe just a follow-up there since you mentioned kind of integrated product.
Can you talk about just the design engineer teams working together now and how you envision that as you look out over a couple of years in terms of where the technology might go? Sure.
I mean you know very well Craig having covered the company for awhile that we have still a very simple organization which general managers who run their organizations and they have full accountability and authority to run their businesses and all the functions report up into those businesses.
And so we don’t have an integrated engineering organization across Amphenol.
What we do have is a very successful approach towards collaborating across those companies.
And so to the extent that these integrated products happen it’s through that collaboration that will come for example between an engineer working in our sensor organization and an engineer working in one of the other operations be that in industrial or automotive or otherwise.
And the real question comes is how do you stimulate those dialogues and identify them.
And that’s where our group executives and our management team comes into play so much which is making sure that we are incubating those dialogues on a frequent basis facilitating them and identifying them as appropriate such that we can put those engineers in a room together and get the job done.
And I think we’ve done that really from day one.
So one of the very first things we did when we acquired Advanced Sensors and then later when we acquired Casco was to get a bunch of engineers in a room together to meet each other number one and to exchange kind of hey this is what I do tell me what you do kind of you show me yours I show you mine.
And that initiation of the relationship was something that we took the opportunity very early to do and that has already started to pay great dividends through some of the collaborative activities that we’ve seen.
So I think that long term to the extent that customers have a desire and a need for those integrated products and we think they will and we see them already having that I think our engineering teams will work very well collaboratively still within the basic Amphenol operating structure but in a way that can be very effective to solve those problems for customers.
Okay.
Next question comes from the line of Will Stein of SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Thank you for taking my question.
Two quick ones first in the wireless infrastructure end market I’m wondering if you’re seeing anything meaningful from the small cells this year? Yes.
I think we are very much participating in small cells and I couldn’t break down how much of our sales are resulting from small cells but is there something meaningful? Yes.
I would say that there is something meaningful in small cells as the capital spending of some of our operator customers in particular shifts a bit from macro towards a bit – towards small and microcells.
But we certainly would benefit from that because we have a great product offering that covers that both from an interconnect as well as an antenna perspective.
Great.
And then in the industrial that broad based industrial end market I want to follow up on a question that’s asked earlier.
Often I think we as analysts try to look at results of some of the biggest industrial companies and try to draw conclusions from their results to those of Amphenol and others.
And I’m wondering if that – if you think that’s a reasonable way for us to anticipate demand shifts in this end market or perhaps is much of your demand really coming from either private companies or companies that we might not have a good view of because of their size? Any characterization trying to line up those two let’s say the results of the big companies and your results would be really helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
Will I would love to be able to help you make a model for the industrial market but I think I would fail miserably.
You’d do a much better job than I would.
Our industrial business is so diversified.
And so to look at maybe for example a diversified industrial company I mean there’s a pretty big one down the road here in Connecticut and say is that a proper proxy for the industrial outlook for Amphenol.
I wouldn’t necessarily say that that would be the most highly effective approach to that.
And we work across so many segments of industrial.
Ultimately what ties these industrial markets together is that their applications that tend to go into areas which are a little bit dirtier a little bit more tricky to deal with they tend to have to last a long time.
But I mean you’re talking about applications as diverse as solar cells and high-speed rail factory automation oil and gas things that may – companies that make earthmovers and tractors lighting and next-generation lighting medical.
I mean do those have necessarily the same cadence to them those spaces or is there one or two sort of proxy big companies where one can say well that’s going to drive it not necessarily.
And I think there’s another element too which is the same dynamic that we talked about in automotive which is the expansion of new electronic feature set in that space.
Means that you can’t just say how many more cars are built this year and that’s what are the revenues of Amphenol or Amphenol’s peers going to be in that space.
You have the very same dynamic that happens in industrial.
There is this what I – so not is a very easy to say word but kind of an electronification that’s happening across the industrial market and all those spaces that I referred to where something for example that used to be a hydraulic or a mechanically driven feature on a tractor now becomes electronic or where a train that used to only need power to connect between the cars now need the whole suite of fiber optics and digital and power and RF and other aspects or where a train network now has to be tracked through the whole wireless system something like a positive train control.
I mean I can go on and on about that migration that’s happening in the industrial market away from hydraulics and mechanics and towards electronics which is the same thing we’ve seen in commercial areas the same thing we’ve seen in military it’s the same thing we’ve seen in automotive whereby it’s very hard to just take the overall equipment sales and then put that as a template for what one should expect for Amphenol.
I think clearly our performance over these years has reflected a very different trajectory than one would have seen in overall GDP year overall industrial performance.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you very much Will.
Our next question comes from the line of Wamsi Mohan of Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thank you.
Diana you noted that inventory was a little higher than normal to support future builds.
So in light of the fact that guidance is roughly flat sequentially what end market is this targeting why is it typically higher this quarter? And I have a follow-up.
Sure.
I think we wouldn’t – we’re not going to get into inventory by end market but I think our guidance is from an organic standpoint about 3% growth sequentially so it’s not exactly flat but I think that some of this build is not necessarily just for Q2 but also to some extent goes into the second half of next year.
That being said I mean inventory is a little bit higher but it’s still at the high end of the normal range that the company has had if you go back over the last few years.
So it’s not an astronomical build in inventory that we’re talking about here.
And I think as I’ve said in the prepared remarks we would expect as we go through the year that inventory would come back down at least to the midpoint of the range from a day’s perspective historically.
Okay.
Thanks for that Diana.
And then if I’m looking at this right your guidance implies some organic deceleration in the second quarter reacceleration again on the second half despite some slightly tougher compares in the back half.
So is it fair to think that the puts and takes are largely the mobile network comments you alluded to in 2Q and then the mobile device ramp in 3Q that’s creating this dynamic or are there additional drivers of acceleration that you have confidence in 3Q and further Sure.
I think if you look at the guidance and think about why it’s different than perhaps what you’d expect from a normal seasonality standpoint I think it’s exactly those two markets that you just mentioned.
It’s the fact that the wireless markets which would ordinarily be up sequentially in Q2 for the reasons I already explained.
We don’t expect that and then we do expect a pretty significant sequential uptick in the mobile device market in the second half of the year.
And that does happen from time to time.
If you go back historically you can find other years where that’s happened.
Then I think as Adam has described on many of these calls before it just tends to be a lumpy type of business depending on timing of program introductions and that kind of things.
But it is – those two markets that are giving the 2015 sequential seasonality a bit different look than perhaps what it has been in the past.
Okay.
At this time there are no further questions on queue.
Speakers you may proceed.
Well thank you very much.
And again I thank you all for your attention today and I hope that spring has come as it has here at Wallingford Connecticut to all of you and we look forward to speaking to you again in a short three months.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Thank you for attending today’s conference.
And have a nice day.
Welcome to the Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Mr.
Adam Norwitt.
Sir you may begin.
Well thank you very much and I'd like to offer my greetings to everybody on the call here today.
Thank you very much for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
I am Adam Norwitt CEO of the company and I'm here together today on a very special day with Craig Lampo who is here for his first earnings call as our newly appointed Chief Financial Officer.
Our earnings were released this morning and in a moment Craig is going to provide some financial commentary on the quarter.
And then I will follow-up with an overview of the business and current trends.
And certainly at the end we will have a question-and-answer session as well.
But before going into the results I'd like to first introduce Craig Lampo who has been formally appointed as Amphenol's Chief Financial Officer effective yesterday July 21.
And this has followed a very smooth transition period working together with Diana Reardon.
And I would like to take this opportunity to express my deepest gratitude to Diana who has stepped down as CFO after more than 10 years in the role.
During that time as well as during her more than 27 years so far with the company Diana has made tremendous contributions to the performance of Amphenol.
It has been such a pleasure to work with her as CFO and I am especially pleased that Diana will remain strongly connected to Amphenol both as a senior advisor to me and now as a member of our Board of Directors to which she was appointed yesterday.
Craig Lampo assumes the role of CFO after serving also more than 10 years as our Vice President and Corporate Controller.
During that time Craig has worked hand-in-hand with Diana and me to drive the performance of the company and thereby has gained an intimate appreciation of our strategy operations and the financial management of the company.
But most importantly Craig is a true Amphenolian steeped deeply in the unique culture of this fine company.
And I personally look forward to continuing to work even more closely with Craig in his new role and I'm excited for the long-term positive impact that he will no doubt have on Amphenol's performance.
So I would like to please ask you to join me in extending my congratulations both to Diana as our newest Board member and to Craig Lampo as our new Chief Financial Officer.
And with that let a me turn it over to Craig for his financial review of the second quarter.
Craig please.
Thank you Adam.
It is my pleasure to be on the call for the first time and to provide some financial commentary on the quarter.
The company closed the second quarter with sales of $1.351 billion and EPS of $0.58 excluding one-time items meeting the high end of the company's guidance.
Sales were up 3% in U.S.
dollars and 7% in local currencies compared to the second quarter of 2014.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency sales in the quarter were up 1%.
Sequentially sales were up 2% in U.S.
dollars and 1% organically from the first quarter.
Breaking down sales into our two major components our Cable business which comprised 6% of our sales was down 10% from last year primarily due to a slowdown in spending by cable operators as well as the effect of translation.
The Interconnect business which comprised 94% of our sales was up 4% from last year reflecting the benefits of both good organic growth and the company's acquisition program partially offset by translation.
Adam will comment further on the trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income increased $266 million excluding one-time items in the second quarter.
Operating margin excluding one-time items increased to 19.7% compared to 19.5% last year a strong year-over-year conversion margin on incremental sales of 29%.
The increase of 20 basis points in operating margins over the prior year resulted from an increase in operating margins in the Interconnect business.
From a segment standpoint in the Cable segment margins were 11.8% compared to 12.7% last year primarily as a result of lower volumes.
In the Interconnect segment margins were 21.9% up 30 basis points from 21.6% last year.
The improvement in ROS reflects excellent operating execution both organically and from our acquisitions in addition to aggressive cost management.
We're very pleased with the company's operating margin achievements.
This excellent performance is a direct result of the strength and commitment of the company's entrepreneurial management team which continues to foster a high-performance action oriented culture in which each individual operating unit is able to appropriately adjust to market conditions and thereby maximize both growth and profitability in what clearly continues to be a very dynamic environment.
Through the careful fostering of such a culture and the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry-leading operating margins and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
The company has recorded acquisition-related costs in the quarter of approximately $6 million or $0.02 per share.
The costs include professional fees and other external expenses related to the acquisition closed and announced in the quarter.
In accordance with the current accounting rules these costs are expensed as incurred.
In addition we do anticipate additional one-time acquisition-related charges in the second half of 2015 related to the previously announced FCI acquisition.
These one-time charges will be separately disclosed as is our practice and are not included in our guidance.
Interest expense for the quarter was $17 million compared to $20 million last year reflecting the benefit of a lower average effective interest rate in the quarter -- in the current quarter more than offsetting the impact of higher average debt levels resulting from the company's acquisition and stock buyback programs.
The lower average rate is a result of the new note issuance in September 2014 replacing a higher cost note maturity in November 2014 and the implementation of a new commercial paper program.
Other income was $4 million in the second quarter equal to last year and consists primarily of interest income on cash and short-term cash investments.
The company's effective tax rate excluding one-time items was 26.5% in both the second quarter of 2015 as well as the second quarter 2014.
On and as reported basis the company's effective tax rate was 27.1% in the second quarter of 2015.
Excluding one-time items net income was approximately 14% of sales in the quarter and EPS increased 7% an excellent performance.
On an as reported basis the company achieved EPS of $0.56 which included approximately $6 million or $0.02 of acquisition-related transaction costs as I just discussed.
Orders for the quarter were $1.362 billion up 3% last year resulting in a book to bill ratio of 1.01 to 1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash.
Cash flow from operations was $235 million in the quarter or approximately 130% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
And for the six months ended June 30 operating cash flow was $423 million or 117% of net income.
From a working capital standpoint inventory was $893 million at the end of June up approximately 2% from March.
Inventory days were 87 excluding acquisition impacts which was flat from March levels and at the higher and of our normal range.
The higher inventory level supports future step-ups in certain parts of our business.
And we expect inventory days to decline in the second half of the year.
Accounts receivable was approximately $1.1 billion at the end of June.
Consistent with March levels days sales outstanding was 72 days excluding acquisition impacts down three days from March levels and within our normal range.
And accounts payable was $560 million at the end of June down approximately 4% from March levels.
Payable days were 55 days down three days compared to March levels.
The cash flow from operations of $235 million along with proceeds from stock option exercises of $30 million were used primarily to purchase approximately $81 million of the company's stock to fund net capital expenditures of $43 million and to fund acquisition payments of $96 million related to the ProCom and DoCharm acquisitions.
During the quarter the company repurchased 1.4 million shares under its January 2015 10 million share stock repurchase program.
7.5 million shares remain available under the program through January 2017 and as mentioned in the earnings release the company's Board of Director has approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on the company's common stock from $0.125 to $0.14 per share increasing the yield to just over 1%.
This increase is effective for payments beginning in October.
At June 30 cash and short-term investments were $1.4 billion the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
Total debt at June 30 was $2.8 billion and net debt was approximately $1.4 billion.
At quarter end the company had issued $758 million under its $1.5 billion commercial paper program and second quarter 2015 EBITDA was approximately $313 million.
From a financial perspective this is certainly an excellent performance.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Thank you very much Craig.
It is a pleasure again to be here.
And I will give some discussion around our second quarter achievements.
In particular I plan to discuss the trends and progress in our served markets.
I'm also going to make some comments at the end about our third-quarter and our full-year guidance.
With respect to the second quarter Craig has certainly given a very comprehensive overview but I just wanted to reiterate how pleased I am that we've reported such strong performance in sales and EPS despite what has continued to be a very challenging economic environment.
We achieved sales of $1.351 billion 3% increase from prior year in U.S.
dollars and 7% in local currencies.
And as Craig mentioned our book to bill was 1.01 to 1 with the orders of $1.362 billion.
We're really pleased with the profitability of the company in the quarter which continued to be very strong at 19.7% operating margins.
And pleased in addition that our EPS reached the high end of guidance at $0.58 growing 7% or twice the rate of our sales growth.
Craig also mentioned the increase in the dividend and just to reiterate the 12% increase in the company's dividend to $0.56 per year is really just another great confirmation of the financial strength of Amphenol.
I can just say how proud I am of our organization who despite the many challenges and dynamics in the marketplace was again able to react quickly and capitalize on opportunities across the diverse array of markets that we serve all while continuing to exercise the discipline and drive necessary to achieve excellent operating performance.
It is just yet again a demonstration of the clear strength of Amphenol's entrepreneurial management culture.
In the second quarter our small headquarters acquisition team put a lot of work in really made tremendous progress in the last quarter as we announced the signing of the largest transaction in the company's history while also acquiring at the end of the quarter two outstanding smaller companies.
First as you all know we announced on June 29 that we had entered into exclusive negotiations to acquire FCI for $1.275 billion subject to closing adjustments.
We were very pleased that as of the end of last week we now have signed a definitive purchase agreement for FCI the completion of which is subject only to certain regulatory approvals.
FCI which expects sales this year of approximately $600 million with an EBITDA margin of 20% is a real global leader in interconnect solutions for the telecom Datacom wireless communications and industrial markets with a broad and complementary array of high speed power input/output and miniaturized interconnect products.
We're particularly excited to add FCI's highly talented team of more than 7 000 employees worldwide to the Amphenol family and I tell you this acquisition is just going to be excellent for Amphenol.
We're now going to be able to offer a much wider range of high-technology interconnect solutions to our respective customers across a broad array of end markets while also driving even stronger operating performance.
We anticipate closing the acquisition of FCI by the end of this year once we work our way through the various regulatory approvals.
Also very pleased in the quarter to have completed the acquisitions of ProCom and DoCharm both right at the tail end of the second quarter.
ProCom is a Denmark-based manufacturer of harsh environment high-technology antennas primarily for the industrial market with annual sales of approximately $20 million.
ProCom is just an outstanding complement to our very successful global antenna business in the wireless communications markets.
And it further strengthens our position as a global leader in RF interconnect and antenna technology while at the same time broadening our product offering for the worldwide industrial market.
DoCharm is a China-based manufacturer of highly engineered interconnect assemblies for the China automotive industry with annual sales of approximately $50 million.
In particular DoCharm is a leader in China in the supply of interconnect assemblies for automotive lighting applications and will be an excellent complement to our already successful position in that segment in the Americas and Europe.
As we welcome these outstanding new teams to Amphenol we remain very confident that our successful acquisition program will continue to create great value for the company.
It is really our ability to identify and execute upon acquisition opportunities while successfully bringing those companies into the Amphenol family.
That remains a core competitive advantage for the company.
Turning to the quarter and our trends and progress across our various served markets I would just point out that once again our balanced and broad end market diversification supported our strong performance in the second quarter.
And no single market represented in the quarter more than 19% of our total sales.
Turning first to the military market that market represented 11% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased from prior year by 2% in U.S.
dollars and 5% in local currencies due to increases in military helicopter communications and ordnance related products.
On a sequential basis sales were up 2% primarily with the contribution from the Invotec acquisition.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect sales to continue to increase moderately from these levels and we remain confident in achieving full-year growth in the military market in 2015.
While there is no question that overall military spending is not expanding our technology leadership and broad program participation have enabled us to realize the growth we experienced here in the second quarter.
And as adoption of electronics grows across a wide range of military technologies and as spending increases in certain emerging geographies Amphenol remains extremely well-positioned for the long-term in the military market.
The commercial aerospace market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter and sales in this market were down slightly in local currency and down by about 7% in U.S.
dollars on a moderation of demand related in particular to small and business jets and commercial helicopters as well as some impact from aviation subsystems.
And this was not totally offset by what we did see as stronger performance of our sales to the major airline producers.
Sequentially our sales increased as we had expected by 3%.
While we remain confident that our commercial air sales will grow in the third quarter from these second quarter levels due to the anticipated second half ramp up of several new airplane platforms we expect the overall market to be up slightly in local currencies for the full year.
We continue to be extremely well-positioned on the latest generation of airliners with our Interconnect value add cable and printed circuit assemblies as well as cable management products.
And that strong and broad position creates an exciting long-term expansion opportunity for Amphenol.
The industrial market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter.
Our sales grew 4% in U.S.
dollars and 7% in local currency versus prior year and 2% in local currency sequentially.
This sales increase was driven by a very robust performance in the heavy equipment instrumentation and alternative energy segments as well as by contributions from the Goldstar acquisition completed at the end of last year.
This growth was offset in part by further declines in the oil and gas segment as well as by some moderation of sales to rail mass transit customers.
Looking ahead we expect sales in the industrial market to increase from these levels in the third quarter and we do continue to anticipate double-digit sales growth in local currencies for the full year of 2015.
Long-term we look forward to realizing the benefits of our broad industrial interconnect and sensor product offerings together with the newly acquired antenna products of ProCom.
The automotive market represented 19% of our sales in the quarter and our sales really increased significantly from prior year.
They grew 33% in U.S.
dollars 45% in local currency and a very strong 16% organically.
In fact we grew organically in all geographies.
This extremely strong performance reflected the ongoing benefits of the Casco acquisition made last year as well as continued growth of our sales of complex interconnect products used in a wide variety of applications including telematics safety devices emissions management as well as drive train control applications.
Sales in the automotive market increased sequentially also by a strong 5% from the first quarter.
We're very pleased to be continuing to outgrow the overall automotive market as we capitalize on a broadened suite of interconnect and sensor technologies which are being incorporated into a wide array of new advanced vehicle electronics.
With the recent addition of DoCharm that I already discussed we have further strengthened our interconnect position in the China market while also clearly establishing ourselves as the global leader in automotive lighting interconnect.
Together with other acquisitions made during the last five years we now have a broad range of high-technology interconnect and sensor products that support a wide array of new electronics applications in cars.
In addition we have become a preferred supplier to a broad range of automobile manufacturers around the world.
Looking towards the third quarter we expect sales in the automotive market to increase further from these levels and we continue to look forward to an excellent 2015 and beyond for this exciting business.
The mobile devices market represented 16% of our sales in the quarter.
And sales increased by 5% from prior year and by a greater than expected 7% sequentially that was driven really by higher demand across a range of customers and programs.
We continue to expect a significant increase of sales in the second half and that includes a sequential increase of approximately 40% in the third quarter as we anticipate a significant increase of sales of our products in support of certain new programs.
For the full year we continue to anticipate growth to be in the mid- to high-single-digits.
And we remain confident that despite the ever-changing landscape as well as the certainly unique dynamics of the mobile devices market are leading technology preferred supplier relationships with a broad range of device makers and most importantly the excellent execution of our outstanding agile organization positions us strongly for the future in the mobile devices market.
The mobile networks market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter and sales in this market were weaker than expected declining by 27% in U.S.
dollars and 23% organically from prior year and by 7% sequentially as demand further moderated from operators essentially in all regions.
While we still expect a second half recovery in spending in the mobile networks market it now appears that the speed and significance of that recovery may be more muted than we had originally expected.
Accordingly we now expect a high teens percentage decline in our full-year sales in the mobile networks market.
But I want to say that regardless of these moderated sales expectations we continue to be extremely well-positioned in the mobile networks market and thus remain very confident that with our industry-leading breadth of interconnect and antenna products we will continue to participate broadly in ongoing next generation mobile network deployments wherever they happen around the world.
The information technology and data communications market represented 17% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales in this market increased by 3% from prior year and declined slightly on a sequential basis on lower-than-expected sales of storage-related products.
Compared to last year our robust sales into servers were offset in part by a weaker performance in networking and storage.
Looking ahead towards the third quarter while we expect sales to remain essentially at these levels in the third quarter we continue to remain confident to achieve full-year growth in the mid-single-digits in the IT datacom market.
As data consumption and processing requirements continue to accelerate the IT datacom market is undergoing a real rapid transformation.
And that transformation is in particular around the cloud and web service providers who are driving just accelerated innovations across the entire architecture of data centers around the world.
It is really in just such a dynamic environment that our industry-leading products high-technology as they are our preferred relationships with leading equipment suppliers as well as our very strong focus on service provider and data center customers directly have created an excellent platform for Amphenol to outperform in the IT datacom market.
The broadband market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter and our performance in this space was a bit softer than expected as U.S.
and Latin America cable operators constrain their spending and with sales declining about 7% from prior year and remaining essentially flat to the first quarter.
While we expect an increase in demand in the third quarter we expect for the full year relatively flat performance now for the broadband market.
There continues to remain a heightened level of uncertainty in the capital spending plans of many of the multi-service operators satellite and telco customers in the broadband space.
And that is in particular given the several high profile industry mergers which are still pending as well as the significance of currency devaluations that have occurred in Latin America.
Nevertheless and despite these market dynamics we remain confident that we will realize long-term success in this market due to our proven capability to create innovative solutions for our customers to support the rapid growth in high-speed data delivery.
And as we drive further efforts to create these enabling technologies we look forward to maintaining our leadership position in the broadband market.
So just to summarize the second quarter I can only say how proud I am of our organization as once again our team executed extremely well in what has become a somewhat more challenging and dynamic market environment.
Our continued strong performance in 2015 is a clear reflection of the company's distinct competitive advantages; our leading technology; our increasing position with customers across a diverse range of markets; our worldwide presence; and our lean and flexible cost structure.
Above all of these strengths though our greatest asset remains Amphenol's agile entrepreneurial management team who reinforces that high-performance culture every day.
Now turning to our outlook the global marketplace remains a highly uncertain environment.
Based on a continuation of these current economic conditions and assuming that exchange rates remain stable at their current levels we now expect in the third quarter and for the full year 2015 the following.
For the third quarter we expect sales in the range of $1.435 million to $1.475 million and EPS in the range of $0.64 to $0.66 respectively.
This represents a sales increase of 6% to 9% in U.S.
dollars and 10% to 13% in local currency as well as an EPS increase of 10% to 14% in the quarter.
For the full year 2015 we expect sales in the range of $5.540 million to $5.620 million an increase of 4% to 5% in U.S.
dollars 7% to 9% in local currencies and 3% to 4% organically.
For EPS we expect for 2015 $2.43 to $2.47 an increase of 8% to 10% over 2014 excluding one-time items.
We're very encouraged by the company's continued strong outlook in sales and earnings especially given those many uncertainties that are still around the global marketplace.
It is clear that the ongoing revolution in electronics continues to create tremendous opportunities for Amphenol.
I'm very confident in the ability of our outstanding management team to continue to capitalize on these opportunities both to grow our market position and expand our profitability and thereby to drive continued superior performance for Amphenol in 2015 and beyond.
And operator at this time we would be very happy to take any questions that there may be.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question came from the line of Amit Daryanani of RBC.
Your line is now open.
I have a question and a follow-up.
On mobile devices Adam you're looking for 40% sequential growth in September.
That is probably stronger growth than you have seen for the last several years in September.
Maybe you can talk about is it units that you think are going up or is it content for you guys that is driving this much conviction that you can do that? And baked into your full-year numbers how do you think December plays out in mobile devices? I think it is very strong performance.
As you know over the last several years there are some years where the third quarter is very strong and other years where the fourth quarter is very strong.
But no doubt about it the second half is usually very strong in the mobile device segment; I think this year is no different.
As we look towards the third quarter we see really a variety of levers of growth here.
And that includes units that includes content that includes really expansion of the various products that we're offering into the market.
We sell such a broad suite of products into that market everything from antennas and interconnect to mechanisms and even products that go onto the devices as well as products that go to support our customers in their production processes.
And so there is just a real wide array of products that we're selling onto a wide array of applications with a diverse range of customers.
Relative to the December quarter I think you can do the math that we would anticipate at this point that the December quarter would be sequentially down a bit from the third quarter.
Again there are some years where the third quarter is stronger than the fourth and other years where the fourth quarter is stronger than the third.
It is not a market that I would ever want to give long-term predictions on the various seasonality and cadence of that market.
But this year we're very happy to still be in a very strong position.
And I would just one more time emphasize if you look at our performance in this space over the last several quarters we had a very strong fourth quarter and a very strong second half last year.
We had also a very strong -- a reduction in sales in the first quarter -- if I recall correctly it was nearly 30% from the first quarter to the -- from the fourth quarter to the first quarter we grew 7% sequentially last quarter and now we're going to grow 40% into the third quarter that is not an easy business to run.
And I just give so much credit to our organization being able to flex in such an environment.
At the end of the day that is one of the greatest competitive advantages that we have in this space.
So few can flex at that level in real-time with the needs of the customers I think ultimately that allows us to get maybe a little bit more than our fair share of the market opportunity.
And then if I could just follow up on FCI.
Could you just talk about what's the historical or the growth rate been for the company for the last few years? And as you integrate this once it closes is it reasonable to say the aspiration when you get closer to the Interconnect margins for Amphenol versus the corporate levels for FCI? Yes no it is an excellent question and again we're just very excited about FCI.
FCI has just an outstanding business and I wouldn't necessarily talk about specific growth rates but I would just tell you that they have had good growth over the recent years.
It is a company with a very long legacy.
It comes for many many decades over certain iterations and ownerships.
And the business today that we're buying is really the core electronics commercial business of FCI.
And that is a business that just has done an outstanding job in gaining position across a wide array of products and markets.
I mentioned everything from high-speed to power input-output connectors miniaturized connectors and has done a great job on a regional basis as well with customers where we don't necessarily have necessarily that strength.
And so as we think about their future certainly our aspiration for FCI would be for them to perform at or above the levels of Amphenol.
Otherwise we would not have bought the company.
And as we think about operating performance today the company clearly does not perform at the levels of Amphenol.
As we talked about in the press release they have EBITDA margins of around 20% but their operating margins would be more in the low to mid-teens.
And we certainly see great opportunities for FCI over a time period certainly medium to long time period to bring themselves up to Amphenol level margins.
That has been a recipe that we have applied for many years.
In fact we're coming up to the 10th anniversary of the Teradyne Connection Systems or TCS acquisition.
Believe it or not that was 10 years ago December that we acquired TCS.
And at the time that was a company that didn't perform at the levels that Amphenol aspired to and was able to achieve.
And certainly over the years that organization was able through being part of Amphenol to really reach towards much higher levels of profitability.
And we would certainly have that long-term aspiration for FCI and long-term goals.
Thank you.
Our next question came from the line of Amitabh Passi of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Adam I just had a couple questions for you.
On just FCI are there any cross-licensing agreements or potential revenue dissynergies that we need to be thinking about? Just maybe an overarching comment there.
Sure.
No it is a very good question.
There are a couple of licensing arrangements that we have like we have with many other companies in the industry.
But we don't really view that as revenue dissynergies.
Those licensing arrangements tend to be relatively -- the second source arrangements tend to have relatively small proportions and we don't see that as any material impact to the business.
I mean what we see much more is benefits.
When we think about the products and the complementary aspect of those products as well as the complementary access to customers where there are certain customers where they have done much better and others where we have done much better.
And I think being able to bring that full suite of technologies between both those sets of customers is really something that will far outweigh any immaterial revenue kind of dissynergies as you term it from cross licensing.
And just a quick follow-up we have heard from a few other companies in the supply-chain including semiconductor companies of increasing levels of caution as the order progressed.
I am just curious how things potentially trended for you during the quarter.
Did you see a slowing in the quarter and essentially how you would characterize the environment today.
I think I would characterize the environment as throughout the course of the quarter the macro environment I would say felt a little worse at the end of the quarter than it felt at the beginning.
That didn't necessarily translate into the results of the company I would say.
I think our team did a fabulous job and we had what I would term a pretty normal cadence throughout the quarter in terms of you tend to have a pretty strong June in the second quarter and that was no different in this quarter but it was a bit more of a fight I will tell you that.
And I think that the overall market environment continues to have a relatively high degree of uncertainty around it and probably throughout the course of the quarter was a bit higher.
Any specific geographies or was that sort of a broad-- No I would say that it is more broad.
I mean look I wouldn't -- we're not necessarily a canary in the coal mine for every market and every geography here.
But I just think that there is a general sense that there was uncertainty.
You have to fight sometimes a little bit harder for the last order.
Thank you.
Our next question came from the line of Mark Delaney of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
I was hoping first Adam maybe you could elaborate a little bit more on the strength that you are seeing in the mobile devices end market.
I know you talked about how it can be volatile from quarter to quarter but you mentioned specifically that you are participating in things some directly involved in the manufacturing process.
And I'm just wondering is there a one-time nature to some of those sales or is there something that you would have an opportunity to participate in in future years? Yes no look I think we don't see that as a one-time thing.
What I would say is that in the mobile devices market the demand tends to have certain quarters where it is much higher than others.
And I don't think that will be any different regardless of whether you are participating on the product side or working with them in the production.
There tend to be ramp ups of products there tend to be ramp ups of production processes and there tend to be then some digestion of those ramp ups.
And I think you see that really in the ongoing results of the company over many years where quarter to quarter you have certain quarters that are much stronger in the mobile devices space that tend to be more towards the second half of the year.
Not always.
I mean we have had in other years where actually the first quarter was not such a bad quarter because there was a certain set of product releases.
The cadence of when the activity gets hot and not hot in the mobile devices is something again that doesn't -- that is not entirely predictable in any year year in and year out.
And we don't see that that is a very different dynamic regardless of whether you are selling products that go onto the device or helping to make the device or supporting accessories where we have also a very strong business related to accessories and devices.
I think all of those tend to be relatively lumpy and you have got to be in a position where you can strike while the iron is hot while the opportunity is there.
And the better you can be at striking with a real agile organization at that time the more success you can have over the long term.
And then a second follow-up question if you could just help us to contextualize the FCI acquisition versus the broader M&amp;A program at the company.
I mean some of the deals the company has done in recent years GE Casco and FCI have been larger.
I mean I think to get to deals of this size you have to go back to the Teradyne Connection Systems business you mentioned from 10 years ago.
So there has been a noticeable increase in the size of the M&amp;A.
I'm just wondering if you can talk about what other opportunities are there of this sort of deal size hundreds of millions or billion-dollar type acquisitions.
And is that the type of size we should expect the company to be looking to execute on going forward? Sure.
Look I think I have said for many years that we have some very strong criteria for acquisitions.
And that is first and foremost technology and we want companies with very very strong technology.
And in addition equal billing with technology is we want outstanding people and then we want that to be complementary to the company.
And the criteria that we have never had is size and I think that while it is true that the FCI acquisition is the largest acquisition we have made in the history of the company in absolute dollars from a proportional size the TCS acquisition was actually substantially bigger.
I think at the time it had sales of close to a third of the size of Amphenol.
So I think that we're a bigger company and so we certainly have the capacity to do deals of a wide variety of sizes.
In terms of what is out there and what is available and what will be available it is very hard to say.
I mean there are plenty of companies out there of a certain size.
Will they ultimately one day be for sale? There are some that we certainly hope they will be.
We're very patient though.
I can tell you that even within FCI I mean that has been a process of onward close to a decade where we have been knowing that company having dialogue.
And that is very similar to many of the acquisitions that we have made where we develop a very long-term dialogue with those companies.
And eventually there comes an inflection point where the owner of the company be that the owner/operator or in this case the financial owner decides that they are ready to consider selling that.
And I think that there are large companies that are out there.
Will those be in the near-term or even medium-term actionable from an acquisition standpoint? That is very hard to say.
So it doesn't mean that we won't do acquisitions also of smaller size.
As you saw in the quarter we made two other acquisitions $20 million in size $50 million in size.
We will continue to pursue a very broad range of acquisition targets all around those criteria of having strong technology outstanding people and complementary market positions.
Thank you.
Our next question came from the line of Mr.
Mike Wood of Macquarie.
Your line is now open sir.
Regarding industrial and just local consumption oriented markets in China there are two markets where some industrial companies had been reporting softness.
Can you just speak to what Amphenol is seeing there? And regarding those trends has there been any destocking or you think maybe sell-in is underperforming sell-through? Yes.
So when you talk about industrial in certain of these geographies I wouldn't necessarily say that the performance of our industrial business in this case was really geographically focused.
I mean there was nothing really of note geographically in our performance.
I think I mentioned that we saw a continued and relatively significant decline in our sales to oil and gas markets.
That is not geographical; I mean there is oil and gas in business in Asia in Europe and in North America.
We also saw some declines in rail mass transit as well.
I think rail mass transit -- maybe there was a little bit more of that decline in Asia but not so material to the impact.
So I wouldn't necessarily characterize the performance of our industrial business on a geographical basis.
The strength that we saw in places like heavy equipment and instrumentation again just on an organic basis were not necessarily geographically focused either.
I think those were in new areas where we have new technologies and in particular where we have seen just this increasing prevalence of adoption of new electronics onto industrial equipment.
And that is something that we see in particular in the heavy equipment and the sort of agriculture and mining and those type of very harsh environment large equipment areas of the industrial market where there is seems to be actually quite an acceleration of the adoption of electronics.
As companies by to embed more functionality in their devices and in their equipment in order to compete in a marketplace which is maybe not so favorable.
And as a follow can you just speak to your capacity? You mentioned your M&amp;A pipeline but just in terms of the leverage which I roughly calculate around two times EBITDA after FCI would be closed.
Do you feel at all constrained by additional deals this year or by an operational capacity? Sure.
I will take that one.
At the end of the quarter -- I mean the answer is no.
At the end of the quarter the company has in excess of $2.1 billion of capacity between our cash and revolver availability.
Not to mention certainly our strong operating cash flow that the company continues to generate.
As we previously disclosed we have earmarked about $1.3 billion of that capacity for acquisitions of FCI the majority of which will be funded with our international cash.
And certainly while this is a somewhat bigger deal than we've done in the past as Adam just mentioned relative to the size of Amphenol certainly it is not our large deal.
And certainly is well within the company's capital leverage capacity given full and appropriate consideration to certainly the importance of our ratings.
In the future we will certainly continue to have a thoughtful and balanced approach to deploying our capital and financial strength giving appropriate consideration and priority of certainly first to our acquisition program and then to our dividend program and probably lastly to our stock buyback program.
So in the near-term depending on future acquisition activity including FCI that weighting may be a little bit more skewed towards our acquisition program.
But as a management team we believe this certainly provides the best long-term return to our shareholders.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison of Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
And Craig congrats on the official appointment wanted to dig in a little bit more on just mobile infrastructure in terms of where you are seeing the incremental weakness by geography if you could help us out with that.
And the weakness that you are seeing in the back half does that mean that you are seeing projects spill into 2016 or is this stuff just -- that is not going to be built out? Yes no.
I think it is actually pretty interesting.
When you look at it on a year-over-year basis in local currency essentially all geographies are down by the same amount.
And so the amount by which we were down that kind of 23% in local currency that was spot on in each geography really kind of the same number.
And while that is a coincidence of course because there is not necessarily a correlation I think it is indicative of one thing.
And that is that you had a very significant build out cycle last year no doubt about it.
And there is always some digestion.
But in addition to the digestion there is a little bit of what I would call indigestion that comes from a few [Technical Difficulty] happening.
And one of those is just broadly in the carrier space there is a lot of activity corporate activity mergers discussions acquisitions regulatory things that are happening.
That is one.
And then you see that is more in the West in North America in particular and then a little bit in Europe.
But you have also in China some government-related actions that are happening that are also keeping a damper on the mobile infrastructure spending in the first half.
I think as we look towards the second half we do anticipate the second half being stronger than the first half just not at the level that we had originally come into the year talking about.
I mean if you remember Shawn very well last quarter we also had to adopt a bit more negative view of this market and we incrementally feel a little more negative this time.
And that doesn't feel so great in that wireless infrastructure market.
But it just appears that the spending is being extended a little bit and in the end the overall levels for the full year will be less.
Does that mean that it that is kind of permanently lost? I don't think so whatsoever.
At the end of the day the data rates the consumption the expansion of devices is still going unabated.
I saw just a statistic which I am sure many of you saw this week I mean overall mobile data usage up 51% year over year in the second quarter and on a global basis.
I mean those are numbers that have tremendous ultimate impact on the requirements to invest in next-generation networks.
And we see still an amazing amount of activity around designing the next generation.
You talk about 3G then to 4G LTE then to 5G.
I am sure one day we're all going to be sitting around here and I'll have a full head of gray hair and we will be talking about 10G.
But there is just this sort of immutable march forward in the demands of mobile data that ultimately does drive the investment cycle.
And as I have said for years past it goes in these cycles.
We never relax our efforts to gain strong position across a wide array of OEMs and service providers because we know that ultimately that pent-up demand has to get satisfied.
We saw that last year and we're very confident that over the coming years we will continue to see strong needs of capital investments and equipment upgrades and technology advances in the wireless infrastructure market.
And just as a follow-up on FCI I guess one of the concerns I have received is that FCI being owned by private equity for a number of years now almost 10 maybe Bain has squeezed a lot of blood from the stone.
How do you generate the margins and push margins higher in that business? Is it revenue synergies? Is it ways to sprinkle -- I don't know if this is the best term -- the Amphenol dust on the business and bring it into the fold and there is opportunities there? Is there something else? Because I guess the general concern is that Bain was running it pretty lean.
What opportunities does Amphenol have to improve the cost structure and margin profile? Sure it is an excellent question.
And it is true Bain owned it for nine years and I think by owning it for so long by the way we're not able to kind of starve the business either.
They had to and they did continue to invest very strongly in the business over many years.
As we look towards the operating improvements I think you mentioned a number of things and I am not going to claim that we have pixie dust at Amphenol.
But we certainly have an approach in the company towards expansion of operating profitability and really alignment of accountabilities such that you achieve that operating profitability.
And that is something that we will work very hard with the FCI team who is very excited by the way to be a part of that entrepreneurial culture.
And we think that in and of itself has tremendous impacts on the profitability of the company.
That was something we saw at the time with TCS that is something that we have seen with the GE sensors business.
I mean time and again when you bring a company in that has come maybe from a slightly different approach and you bring them into that decentralized accountable model of Amphenol you have really some fabulous impact that comes from that.
Obviously from a revenue and a technology I mean there are a lot of great great opportunities to leverage the unique technologies that each of us have where collectively we can create better solutions for our customer either better cost solutions or better technology solutions.
I mean FCI has just certain really fantastic innovations across the company where we will seek to apply some of those innovations more broadly across Amphenol and vice versa.
And I think that that can also have a great impact on the overall operating results of the company.
Thank you.
Our next question came from the line of Sherri Scribner of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Adam I was hoping you could help us think through the guidance.
It looks like you took the full-year guidance up at the low end but kept the high end the same.
But the third quarter numbers look better than most people's expectations.
So that implies that the fourth quarter was a bit lower than people's expectations.
It seems to me that that is probably related to the seasonality of the mobile devices segment this quarter.
But was hoping you could give us some thoughts on that seasonality this year and the fact that the guidance didn't really change that much.
Sure.
No I think you have answered your own question Sherri as far as I am concerned.
As usual you do the analysis perfectly.
It is very true that we have raised -- we never gave third-quarter guidance first of all.
So I think we have always given full-year guidance and we're very happy to be able to sustain that full-year guidance.
I think we feel that the third quarter is strong in mobile and I think I already mentioned that we would anticipate in the December quarter to see a little bit of a sequential moderation in our sales into the mobile devices market.
I think relative to that full-year guidance we have obviously the benefit of the two acquisitions.
And I mentioned as well that from an organic standpoint we see our range at really a 3% to 4% organic growth range.
And that is a slight tick down from what we had seen before all for the reasons that I discussed in the various markets and in particular across the carrier market.
So I think that the uncertainty in particular in those carrier-based markets the mobile infrastructure and broadband markets with all that is going on in that space that injects maybe a little bit more dose of conservatism into our outlook.
But net-net we're extremely pleased to have that guidance really holding at the high end bringing that up at the low end and with a real strong sense of confidence given a market environment that we think has incrementally gotten a little bit more challenging throughout the course of the quarter.
And it actually feeds into my follow-up which was in the press release you noted an increased level of uncertainty globally.
In answer now you just suggested maybe that is just related to the carrier segment.
But wanted to get a sense of where you are seeing the uncertainty.
Is it generally pretty broad is it some segments like carrier or is it some other segments too? Thank you.
No I think when I talked about the carrier that is really the specific impact to our outlook.
I think the general comment about uncertainty in the marketplace is really more of a general one.
As I mentioned I think early on just as the quarter went on it was a little bit more of a fight to get the orders.
I think our team is really up to the task and they did a fantastic job given that environment and we're confident that we will continue to do an excellent job given that environment going forward.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of William Stein of SunTrust.
Your line is now open.
Congratulations on the good outlook relative to what we're seeing elsewhere.
And that is really what I would like to focus on.
One of the areas that some other component and semiconductor companies have talked about is channel inventory adjustments denting their Q3 outlooks.
I am wondering if you are saying anything in this regard if you are seeing any actions by either end customers or the channel in reducing inventory? Yes look in the channel as it is distribution distribution represents under 13% of our sales in the quarter.
And I don't know that we have seen anything really marked in terms of massive inventory reduction or changes.
I wouldn't say that the distribution channel has been very frothy in the quarter.
And when we talk about it being a little bit more of a fight maybe there is some component of that that is related to distribution.
But again it hasn't been that there was like a pivot in the behavior of our distributors or in the behavior of the sell-through with our distributors.
I think that it is just a little bit more sometimes of a challenge and maybe a little bit more of a conservatism on their part but we don't see big inventory reductions pullbacks massive corrections coming out of that channel right now.
And one follow-up if I can I'm wondering if you might give us an update on the progress of the sensor business? You have done a couple of acquisitions there in the last year or two.
And I know that you highlighted some design wins in particular in automotive I think.
Maybe you could just kind of give us an update on how that part of the business is progressing? Sure.
No look we continue to be really excited about our sensor business.
It is coming up believe it or not on a year and a half.
We passed the year and a half mark of owning the GE sensors business; end of this year it will already be two years.
Time flies.
And Casco was acquired nearly a year ago.
And I would just reiterate as I have said on the last several calls that we feel really excited about that.
And we continue to get great affirmation from customers that us owning a sensor business is a really good thing for the company a good thing for our customers and a good thing for the technology solutions that we can provide.
We're working very hard on a very collaborative basis across the company to uncover and to pursue opportunities where we can really bring in a sensor and an interconnect together with maybe our industrial business or our automotive business.
And I would say that we have had good wins in that area.
I wouldn't point to anything that is really material to the outlook of the company as yet but I think the long-term prognosis for our sensor business is excellent as is the long-term prognosis for the opportunity of having that sensor and interconnect solution.
The ability to package the sensor together with a harsh environment or otherwise interconnect solution is something that is very special.
And it is something that our customers appear to have a great desire to engage with us on.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Hettenbach of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
I guess it is not pixie dust maybe the word is Amphenolian.
But just on the automotive business that has come quite a far way in the last couple years through a mix of the organic as well as acquisitions.
Can you talk about where you are from a penetration standpoint and how much you have to gain from that versus just the overriding increasing content theme? Sure.
I mean look we're still small on a relative basis compared to some of the major participants in the space.
But we're a little bit less small than we were five years ago that is -- there is no doubt about it.
And we have made outstanding acquisitions over those five six years and we have continued to do that here in the quarter -- at the end of the second quarter with DoCharm.
And I think when I look at that business today and I compare that business to circa 2009 a couple of things.
Number one is a much broader offering of products across a broader range of applications.
That is number one.
Number two is we now have kind of at a minimum a foot in the door sometimes a leg and sometimes even the whole body but at a minimum a foot in the door with the vast majority of major automotive OEMs in most geographies.
I think with the exception of Japan where we have never had a strong position.
And I wouldn't say that we have necessarily gained that strong position even if with some of the Japanese OEMs outside of Japan we have actually gained a strong position.
And then the third is just regionally.
Where our automotive business would have been six years ago two-thirds or three-quarters European today that automotive business is actually quite balanced on a regional basis.
Europe is still marginally the largest territory.
But really it is marginal as compared to North America and Asia.
And with the acquisition that we've just made that will bring even a stronger position with us in China both with the international as well as the indigenous participants in China.
And look we certainly read the papers and hear everybody talking about is there a downturn in China and all of this.
I mean the reality is we have still such a small position and still so much to gain across the range of electronics in those cars that we still feel a great sense of confidence in our automotive business.
And I think ultimately that has translated into the strong performance we had this quarter 16% organic growth in the quarter and our continued outlook where we anticipate still for the year to have kind of mid-teens organic growth in the automotive market.
And that is clearly not reflective of just rising with the tide in overall unit sales.
So there is a lot of gaining of position on new applications with new products from us that is really driving that growth.
Just as a quick follow-up you mentioned just some of the change occurring in the data center.
That has been another area of potential concern in terms of is there any slowing on the hyper scale side.
Any insight in terms of kind of what you are seeing from data center growth into the back half? Sure.
I think I did talk about the fact that we had a good quarter in IT datacom compared to the overall market.
We still anticipate kind of a mid-single-digit growth in the IT datacom market for the year.
There is no question this transformation that is happening in the IT datacom market the real shifting of the balance of power from traditional OEMs building boxes and putting them in boxes and shipping them to this more sort of Web 2.0 cloud web service I mean there is so many different names you can call it.
That transformation continues unabated.
And I think that shifting of the balance of power is a very dangerous time in the market for someone who is caught unawares.
And I think our team has just done an outstanding job and we've made a lot of real significant organizational moves let me say.
Taking people who were really strong people focused on certain areas and saying I am cutting the cord with you there and putting you into something totally new.
It is hard for them because now they have got to go from wearing a tie to wearing shorts and Birkenstocks when they go to the customers.
But ultimately that transformation of our people and then the tailoring of the technologies to what the needs of the web service company that is something that we think is going to bear fruit long-term.
You've got to chase where the money is in a space like this and I think that we have done so far a great job of that.
But it is not a space without its peril when you see the dramatic change that is happening in that area.
Thank you.
Our next question came from the line of Jim Suva of Citi.
Your line is now open.
And to make up for my lack of smartness I will just ask one question with no follow-ups.
Can you just help us understand FCI has been around for a very long time with a long history although the company has gone through a lot of international restructuring challenges and you announced that you are acquiring FCI Asia.
Can you help us better understand what does that all include? Geographic reach? A lot of their businesses over the past decade or 15 years have kind of been divested or slowed or closed down or things like that.
Are you acquiring all that is left in FCI? And if so is there still much heavy lifting to do to get it integrated? Or in the past their cost structure has been very French and Spanish and kind of Western Europe high cost basis.
If you'd just help us understand kind of what you are all buying here and what type of effort it is going to take.
Thank you.
Thank you Jim actually this was much more than one question so you are still very smart.
Let me just clarify relative to FCI Asia as it is called that is the legal name of the company.
FCI is a global company it happens to be headquartered in Singapore.
It has a long history and it was originally well let me say on an interim basis it was a French company.
Long ago [indiscernible] Electronics which is one of the predecessor companies was certainly an American company.
But FCI as a global business is really around the world.
They moved the headquarters to Asia a couple of years ago.
It is true that FCI used to have several other businesses which over a certain number of years Bain took the approach to divest them kind of one by one.
They had in automotive business I'm sure everybody is familiar with that.
They had a power business a real high-voltage business that was divested a number of years back.
They had also this what was called microelectronics business which was a very specialized business that was also divested.
And we're buying really the totality of what Bain owns today which was originally known as FCI Electronics which was the commercial electronics interconnect business of FCI and that was always the piece of FCI that we had our eye on for this nearly a decade.
And in terms of the heavy lifting that has been done I mean the company has a great performance and it has performed better than maybe it did in the past.
But we still see excellent opportunities in the future to improve operating performance of the business.
And I think I already discussed a number of the different levers that we intend to exercise as we look towards improving the performance of FCI.
Thank you.
Our next question came from the line of Mr.
Steven Fox of Cross Research.
Your line is now open.
Just a couple quick ones around some of the comments you made Adam on acquisitions.
On the two acquisitions announced today I was wondering if you could just provide a couple of examples around where some of the European deals you said they have RF interconnect exposure into the industrial markets.
Can you give us some examples of that? And similarly for the Chinese business where you said automotive lighting that complements some other deals you have done can you just give us a couple of examples of that? And then I had a quick follow up.
So first with ProCom ProCom is actually an antenna company.
Sorry if I misspoke.
It expands our RF interconnect and antenna offering but it is really a focused antenna company in the industrial market and really predominantly in the industrial market.
It is a very special business in that they make antennas get used in very harsh environments.
I mean take for example on a freighter ship where you have very complex wireless communications that have to happen on a freighter in the middle of the ocean.
They would make those type of antennas.
They make antennas that are used in emergency radio systems for police and fire departments.
They make -- just a real wide variety of antennas that are used across a range of applications where we today don't participate.
And that is what is so exciting about ProCom.
It is obviously a small company just over $20 million in sales.
But it is a company with a unique technology then we would look to expand their presence to other geographies where today they are a very European focused company.
And together with our strong presence on industrial interconnect and with industrial customers we see here a great opportunity to leverage that antenna business into a new market area beyond just the wireless communications of mobile devices and mobile infrastructure where today we have a very strong position.
Relative to DoCharm I did mention that DoCharm has -- one of their main specialties is around complex interconnect assemblies that go into automotive lighting applications.
You may recall that a number of years ago we acquired a company called [indiscernible] was really one of the leaders in automotive lighting in Europe and North America and that business has just done fantastic with us since we acquired it.
What we really like about that business is twofold.
One is in the lighting that tends to be a very important application; lights have to work in a car.
And it also tends to be a little bit more of a harsher environment part of the car because it tends to be a little bit closer to the air and rain and moisture.
And so it allows you to really embed certain technology into that product for a product that really has to work.
It has a safety element to it in addition and it has to work in a slightly tougher environment.
And in addition it is an area where lighting tends to change at a somewhat different and faster cadence than overall model changes.
You have what are called in cars facelifts now and those facelifts are sort of mid platform changes in the car where they don't change the drive train they don't change the underlying architecture of the car but they do things to the car to make it look a little better to upgrade a little bit the electronics.
And those facelifts and mid-cycle upgrades have started to become a real positive aspect of the automotive market whereby you used to really -- if you didn't get on something you had to wait three to five years to get onto the next one.
Today with that mid-cycle upgrade and those facelifts it allows you to have a little bit different velocity to winning business.
And that is something that we really like about this lighting business.
I think the last thing I would say about DoCharm is because it is a real indigenous Chinese company founded by a fabulous entrepreneur [Technical Difficulty] very successful in his space it gives us a different level of position in the Chinese indigenous market.
And we're very happy that the entire management team is very committed to staying with Amphenol.
And they have great role models of companies in China who have been acquired by Amphenol but whereby the owner has stayed with the company for many many years.
We have one where the owner has been with us still for 12 years after the fact.
And I think that the continuity of the management together with the strength of presence with the local customers is something that has a lot of value.
And then just really quickly during your prepared remarks you mentioned that Goldstar and Casco were helping organic growth.
And I was just wondering if you can clarify whether that was sales synergies with existing businesses or bringing their business into your customers? Or were you just referring to their own growth on a standalone basis? Thanks.
Yes sorry again if I misspoke Steve I apologize.
But I did not mean that they were helping our organic growth I meant that our overall growth was aided by the additions of Goldstar and Casco.
Thank you.
Our next question came from the line of Wamsi Mohan of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Adam relative to most of your recent acquisitions FCI appears to be very different in that you need to do a lot more heavy lifting with integrations whereas in many of your other acquisitions you tended to acquire entities that just leveraged your scale reach and technology but you don't have to sort of do much in terms of integration.
So two questions one what are you expecting in terms of integration cost for this acquisition? Will you be including that in your non-GAAP earnings as you refer to accretion? And secondly should we expect to see more acquisitions from Amphenol given the relative size that you are now as a company that you would need to go after targets where you would have to on an ongoing basis be more involved in integration? Thanks.
I think it is true that FCI is a larger company and that it has maybe some work to be done as it joins with Amphenol in terms of aligning it appropriately in the business.
But let's not forget that the core thing that we look to do in companies like that is to just instill the culture of Amphenol.
I think we talked about at the time when we acquired GE sensors that that was a very different culture it was a very different organization.
And there was maybe a little bit more work that we had to do in that case to align the company towards and Amphenol like measure of accountability and operating discipline and really to bring that sort of cultural change into the company.
And that comes down to essentially making sure that you have got direct line management general managers who run businesses to which they are held accountable and for which they have authority.
And I think that is the main thing that we would make sure is the case here with FCI.
I think we have really the -- all wherewithal to make sure that that is the case.
We have a great playbook to apply.
And ultimately it doesn't mean that we're going in and monkeying around with the whole thing but rather we're making sure that there are the appropriate accountabilities for the focus businesses within FCI.
By the way that is something that the current and soon-to-be prior owners were already heading towards with FCI.
As they migrated the business as they drove that towards more accountability they were in many respects looking to emulate Amphenol already.
And so I think we can just accelerate that emulation a little bit as it joins with us.
And maybe I'll let Craig comment a little bit on just how we would view costs related to the acquisition.
Sure.
I mean we would expect some similar charges to those we've had in the past for things like transaction-related fees expenses and purchase accounting-related items like inventory and backlog valuations that would be amortized early in the first year and these items certainly would be one-time in nature and we would call these out.
In addition certainly given the size of the deal it is possible that there could be some other nonrecurring charges.
If so we would certainly call them out.
At this point we don't have any more questions over the phone.
That is very good.
Well thank you again everybody for your attention today.
I know it is a busy day for all of you and we truly appreciate your time and I hope it is not too late to wish you all a very enjoyable and pleasant summer.
Hopefully you will get after this busy earning season a little bit of time to have some vacation with your families.
Thanks again and we will talk to you all in about 90 days.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
Hello and welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
Following today's presentation there will be a formal question-and-answer session.
Until then all lines will remain in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the Company today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today's conference host Mr.
Craig Lampo.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
My name is Craig Lampo and I am Amphenol's CFO.
I'm here together with our CEO Adam Norwitt.
We'd like to welcome everyone to our third quarter conference call.
Q3 results were released this morning.
I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends and then Q&amp;A.
The Company closed the third quarter with record sales and EPS of $1.460 billion and $0.65.
Sales were up 7% in U.S.
dollars and 11% in local currencies compared to the third quarter of 2014.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency sales in the third quarter were up 5%.
Sequentially sales were up 8% in both U.S.
dollars and organically from the second quarter.
Breaking down sales into our two segments our Cable business which comprised 6% of our sales was down 10% from last quarter primarily due to a slowdown in spending by cable operators as well as the effective currency translation.
The Interconnect business which comprised 94% of our sales was up 9% from last year reflecting the benefits of good organic growth and the Company's acquisition program partially offset by currency translation.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income increased to $295 million in the third quarter.
Operating margin increased to a very strong 20.2% compared to 19.9% excluding one-time items in the third quarter of last year.
This was a year-over-year conversion margin on incremental sales of 24%.
The increase of 30 basis points in operating margins over the prior year primarily resulted from an increase in operating margins in the Interconnect business.
From a segment standpoint in the Cable segment margins were 12.5% which is equal to last year.
In the Interconnect segment margins were 22.3% up 20 basis points from 22.1% last year.
The improvement in ROS reflects excellent operating execution both organically and from our acquisitions in addition to aggressive cost management.
We are very pleased with the Company's operating margin achievement.
This excellent performance is a direct result of the strength and commitment of the Company's entrepreneurial management team which continues to foster high-performance action-oriented culture in which each individual operating unit is able to appropriately adjust to market conditions and thereby maximize both growth and profitability in a market environment which certainly became more challenging as the quarter progressed.
Through the careful fostering of such a culture and the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry-leading operating margins and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
Interest expense for the quarter was $17 million compared to $21 million last year reflecting the benefit of the lower average effective interest rate in the quarter and more than offsetting the impact of higher average debt levels resulting from the Company's acquisition and buyback programs.
The lower average rate is a result of the note issuance in September 2014 replacing a higher cost note maturity in November of last year and the implementation of the new commercial paper program.
Other income was $4 million in the third quarter compared to $5 million last year and consists primarily of interest income on cash and short term cash investments.
The Company's effective tax rate excluding one-time items was 26.5% in both the third quarter of 2015 and the third quarter of 2014.
On an as-reported basis the Company's effective tax rate was 26.8% in the third quarter of last year.
Net income was approximately 14% of sales in the third quarter of the year and EPS increased 12% excluding one-time items which is an excellent performance.
Orders for the quarter were 1.44 billion up 8% from last year resulting in a book to bill ratio of 0.99-to-1.
The Company continues to be an excellent generator of cash.
Cash flow from operations was $285 million in the third quarter or approximately 140% of net income.
The Company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income and for the nine months ended September 30 operating cash flow was $708 million or 124% of net income.
From a working capital standpoint inventory was $888 million at the end of the quarter approximately equal to June.
Inventory days were 80 excluding acquisition impacts which is down seven days from June levels as expected.
Accounts receivable was approximately at $1.2 billion at the end of September up approximately 7% from June.
And day sales outstanding were 71 days excluding acquisition impacts which is down one day from June levels.
Finally accounts payable were $661 million at the end of the quarter up approximately 18% from June levels.
Payable days were 60 days up five days compared to June levels.
The cash flow from operations of $285 million along with proceeds from the commercial paper program of $94 million and proceeds from stock option exercises of $6 million were used primarily to purchase approximately $52 million of the Company's stock to fund net capital expenditures of $41 million to fund final payments of $28 million related to previous 2015 acquisitions and to fund dividend payments of $39 million which resulted in an increase of cash cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $200 million net of translation.
During the quarter the Company repurchased 1 million shares under its January 2015 10 million share stock repurchase program.
6.5 million shares remain available under the program through January 2017.
At September 30 cash and short-term investments were $1.6 billion the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
and total debt at September 30 was $2.9 billion and net debt was approximately $1.3 billion.
At quarter end the Company had issued $852 million under its $1.5 billion commercial paper program.
In the third quarter EBITDA was approximately $350 million.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent performance.
Before I turn the call over to Adam I wanted to just make a couple of comments relative to the assumption that we have included in our guidance.
The midpoint of sales guidance for the year has been revised from $5.580 billion to $5.488 billion a reduction of $92 million or 2%.
About half of this reduction is due to the weakness in the global industrial market.
The remainder relates to moderation in demand in automotive and IT datacom market.
We believe this weaker demand is the result of a higher level of uncertainty in global markets as growing turbulence in certain economies has impacted global industrial demand.
This has resulted in increased levels of caution from customers in several of our end markets and has translated into lower demand expectation.
Our fourth quarter guidance of $1.330 billion to $1.370 billion in sales or a 6% to 9% sequential decline reflects the impact of these items.
I would also like to note that the majority of the sequential decline in the fourth quarter is driven by the 20% plus sequential reduction in sales in the mobile devices market due to program timing.
This is consistent with our previous expectation and results in an annual growth rate in the high single digits in the mobile devices market.
Given our current expectation of the fourth quarter sales levels we are taking appropriate actions to adjust our cost structure.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Thank you very much Craig and I'd like to also offer my welcome to all of you on the phone with us here today.
As Craig mentioned I'm going to discuss some trends in the progress across our served markets.
I'll also highlight some of our third quarter achievements.
And then finally I'll spend some time to comment on our outlook for the fourth quarter and the full-year 2015 and certainly we'll have time for questions at the end.
With respect to the third quarter I'm just so pleased that we're able to report record results here in the third quarter despite an economic environment that has recently grown even more challenging.
We achieved record sales of $1.460 billion which was an increase of a very strong 7% from prior year in U.S.
dollars and 11% in local currencies.
We booked record orders of $1.444 billion with a book-to-bill of just under 1-to-1.
And very importantly we equalled in the quarter our highest levels of profitability that we have ever achieved as we reached an industry leading operating margin of 20.2%.
Our record EPS in the quarter of $0.65 grew a very strong 12% also from prior year.
I think Craig elaborated on our cash flow and we're very proud to have generated $285 million of cash in the quarter.
I think that cash flow is just a great reflection of the discipline and focus of the entire Amphenol management team.
Indeed in this current highly uncertain environment our organization did just a really outstanding job in the quarter of maximizing performance in the face of substantial challenges that have emerged in the global economy.
This is yet another confirmation of the strength of the Company's agile entrepreneurial culture.
Turning to the trends in our served markets I just wanted to say that we continue to be very focused on driving end market diversification across the Company and once again that strategy has supported the Company's strong performance here in the third quarter.
Turning first to the military market that market represented 9% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales decreased from prior year by 3% in U.S.
dollars and just slightly in local currencies as distributors' buying patterns became more conservative and as reductions in both communications and avionics applications were not fully offset by growth that we saw in ordnance engines and rotorcraft.
Sequentially sales in military were a bit softer than we had expected falling by 2%.
As we now look ahead to the fourth quarter we expect sales to increase slightly from these levels and we essentially expect the military market to be flat to prior year for the full year 2015.
Amidst the current moderate spending environment we remain very confident that our broad technology position and expansive participation across a wide array of military programs positions us very well to capitalize on any spending that gets ultimately triggered.
In the context of the modern complex geopolitical environment military electronics continues to be an enabler for government who are seeking to ensure their own security.
As adoption of electronics grows across a broad range of military technologies and as spending increases in geographies around the world Amphenol remains extremely well-positioned for the future.
The commercial aerospace market represented 5% of our sales in the quarter and sales in this market were down 10% in U.S.
dollars and 5% in local currency.
We experienced in the quarter a moderation of demand in particular related to business jets and commercial helicopters as well as some reduced demand related to some avionics subsystems combined with a little bit of conservatism in the distribution channel related to that.
Sequentially sales decreased by greater than seasonally expected 10% for those same reasons.
While we expect the normalization of demand from both our OEM and distributor customers in the fourth quarter and thus anticipate a double-digit sequential sales increase from these levels in the fourth quarter we now expect our sales into this market to essentially be flat in local currency for the full year.
Regardless of that flat outlook we continue to have an outstanding design and position on the newest commercial aircraft with a broad array of connectors value-add cable and printed circuit assemblies as well as cable management products.
This strong and comprehensive product position creates a great long-term expansion opportunity for Amphenol.
Industrial market represented 16% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales fell slightly in U.S.
dollars and were up slightly in local currencies.
While our sales grew robustly in heavy equipment and alternative energy that growth was offset by significant declines in oil and gas as well as more moderate reductions in several other segments of the industrial market.
Sequentially our sales fell by 3% in the quarter.
Looking ahead we have recently seen some more significant reductions in demand expectations of many customers in the industrial market and this appears to in particular result from turbulence in certain emerging economies together with the collective impact of the downturn in commodity prices.
Accordingly we now expect sales in the industrial market to remain at these lower levels going into the fourth quarter.
Regardless of this near-term moderation of our outlook Amphenol's position across the many segments in the industrial market remains extremely strong and our team looks forward to leveraging our wide array of advanced technology interconnect sensor and antenna products to drive strong performance in the future in the very diversified industrial market.
The automotive market represented 18% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales once again increased very strongly from prior year growing 29% in U.S.
dollars 39% in local currency and 13% organically an excellent performance by any measure.
That continued performance in this important market resulted from ongoing momentum of our sales of an ever-growing array of interconnect and sensor products used in automotive electronics together with the contributions from the Casco and DoCharm acquisitions that we have completed over the last year.
Sequentially sales were up just slightly from the second quarter.
While we continue to be very pleased to be out-growing the overall automotive market we have recently begun to see signs from certain tier customers of a moderation of demand expectations in particular in China.
Accordingly we now expect a slight reduction of sales in the fourth quarter from current levels.
Normally we would see a slight seasonal uptick in the fourth quarter.
Nevertheless we retain a very positive long-term view of the automotive market as our broadened product offering of high-technology interconnect and sensor products positions us to capitalize on the continued expansion of automotive electronics for many years to come.
I think very importantly we now have really expanded our reach into and our position with automotive customers around the world essentially in all geographies.
The mobile devices market represented 23% of our sales in the quarter and sales in this market increased by an extremely strong 40% from prior year and 51% sequentially as we were able to capitalize on our expected higher levels of production supporting new programs.
In particular we experienced strong demand related to laptop accessories and production related products in support of customer ramp-up.
As we have previously discussed we anticipate an approximately 20% reduction of sales sequentially into the fourth quarter as volumes are reduced from the peak demand levels that we experienced here in the third quarter.
For the full year 2015 as Craig mentioned we expect growth to be in the high single-digits.
There is no question that the mobile devices market is among the most dynamic in which we participate.
It is really a tremendous credit to our organization that they were able to flex their resources so quickly in reaction to accelerated customer demand and thereby to achieve this excellent performance here in the third quarter.
Long-term we remain confident that our leading technology our preferred supplier relationships with a broad range of device makers and the excellent track record of execution of our outstanding agile organization positions us strongly for the future in this very exciting market.
The mobile networks market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter and although sales declined by 24% from prior year and 19% in local currencies we were pleased to see a 5% sequential sales growth in the third quarter and that was driven in particular by some increased demand in North America.
Looking ahead we don't expect any further increase of activity in base station buildout for the remainder of the year of 2015 and in fact expect our sales to be down slightly in the normally seasonally softer fourth quarter.
This has no doubt been a challenging year in the mobile networks market as operators in many regions have deferred their investment plans as a result of a wide array of external factors.
Nevertheless I think we all know that the ongoing demand by consumers for expanded coverage and capacity continues to grow significantly.
So given our strong position in the mobile networks market we remain very confident that with our industry-leading breadth of interconnect and antenna products we will continue to participate broadly in next generation mobile network deployments as they are triggered around the world.
The information technology and datacom market represented 15% of our sales in the quarter.
Sales increased by roughly 3% from prior year and 2% sequentially as stronger sales in server related products were partially offset by reductions in demand that we saw from networking and in particular storage customers.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter customer forecasts have recently reflected some degree of weakening demand in particular for products used in storage and somewhat for servers.
Accordingly we now expect our sales to the IT datacom market to reduce somewhat from these levels in the fourth quarter which normally would be seasonally stronger.
Regardless of this near-term moderation of demand our position in the IT datacom market remains extremely strong.
We continue to make outstanding progress designing in our advanced high-speed and power products into next-generation equipment and at the same time we are accelerating our penetration of cloud and Web service providers who are rapidly expanding their influence in the IT hardware industry and we look forward to gaining further momentum in this market long-term.
Finally the broadband market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter and sales in this market were a bit less robust than expected as cable and satellite operators continue to constrain their spending levels with our sales falling about 6% in U.S.
dollars and 2% in local currency.
Sales were up slightly on a sequential basis from the second quarter.
We expect sales to remain at or slightly below these levels in what is normally a seasonally slower fourth quarter and we continue to see that many multiservice operators satellite and telco customers remain conservative in their spending on network upgrades in particular given the several high-profile industry mergers which either have recently been completed or still pending together with the significant currency devaluations that we've seen in certain emerging markets in particular in Latin America and those devaluations are also constraining spending.
Nevertheless we remain confident that we will realize long-term success in this market primarily due to our proven capability to create innovative solutions for our customers in support of the rapid growth of high-speed data delivery.
As we drive further efforts to create these enabling technologies we look forward to maintaining our leading position in the broadband market.
So just a final word here on the third quarter I just want to say I'm extremely proud of our organization as we once again executed very well in the third quarter despite a heightened level of economic uncertainty and a very dynamic market environment.
Our continued strong performance here in 2015 is a clear reflection of our distinct competitive advantages our leading technology our increasing position with customers in diverse markets our worldwide presence and a lean and flexible cost structure.
Above all these strengths though our greatest asset remains Amphenol's agile entrepreneurial management team who reinforces that high-performance culture every day and in particular who excels in times where markets are more uncertain.
Now turning to the outlook for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2015 as Craig and I have already mentioned we have recently seen increased signs that turbulence in certain economies have begun to impact the outlook for global industrial production and that has resulted in a moderation of our sales expectations in particular in the industrial automotive and IT datacom market.
Based on these conditions and assuming that exchange rates remain stable at current levels we now expect in the fourth quarter and for the full year 2015 the following results.
For the fourth quarter we now expect sales in the range of $1.330 billion to $1.370 billion and EPS in the range of $0.58 to $0.60 respectively.
This represents a sales reduction from prior year for the fourth quarter of 4% to 7% in U.S.
dollars and 2% to 4% in local currency and an EPS reduction of 5% to 8%.
For the full-year 2015 we now expect sales in the range of $5.468 billion to $5.508 billion an increase of 2% to 3% in U.S.
dollars 6% to 7% in local currencies and 1% to 2% organically and we expect EPS for the year of $2.38 to $2.40 an increase of 6% to 7% over 2014 excluding one-time items.
As Craig alluded to our team is of course reacting very quickly to adjust resources in the face of this reduction in our outlook for the fourth quarter.
We remain singularly focused as an organization on reacting quickly to changes in the market environment while continuing to pursue the many opportunities for expansion that are still present in the global electronics industry.
In fact it is really in challenging times like these that the unique agility and drive of the Amphenol management team is most important and with that I remain extremely confident in the ability of that outstanding team to continue to capitalize on opportunities to grow our market position and achieve superior profitability and thereby to drive continued strong performance for the Company through the remainder of 2015 and beyond.
With that operator we'd be very happy to take any questions that there may be.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question came from the line of Amit Daryanani of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Two questions from me.
One I guess Adam could you just talk a little bit more on the industrial markets in terms of when did you start to see the softness in the quarter and when I think about the guide Adam it's sort of flat sequentially in December quarter that doesn't seem overly conservative in my head so maybe talk about the comfort level you have that things don't get worse from what you saw in September within that industrial bucket? I think with respect to the industrial market I think what we certainly saw is really more recently towards the end of the quarter and even coming here into October is when we started to see some expectations from customers being revised downward.
I think that we continue to have an outlook in the industrial market that is kind of flat but we used to have an outlook that is going up in the quarter and that's why the change in our guidance.
We had a lot of expectations from customers of actual growth going into the end of the year which now we don't see happening.
In terms of the conservatism of that I think we have taken due prudence in looking at the expectations from our customers and we feel confident in the number that we have now given otherwise we wouldn't be giving them obviously but I think that we continue to perform in the industrial market very well.
Last quarter we continued to really expand our market position but not at the levels that we would've thought coming into the quarter.
That's helpful.
And then I guess just in the mobile devices side you did somewhat better than you guys thought obviously in the September quarter and it's going to be down 20 in December I'm just curious how do you think of seasonality as you get into the March quarter? I don't want to get too far ahead but is that essentially you're pulling your seasonal so March should not be down as severely anymore how to just think of that segment and then did you have a 10% customer this quarter? I think just with respect to the third quarter the trajectory that we saw in the market was maybe a little bit better in the third quarter than we thought but in general the trajectory that we're seeing here in the second half is what we have expected to see.
I think it's still premature to talk about what we would see in the first quarter and I think it's still premature to talk about the nature of which customers we have at what percentage at this time.
I think the reaction of our team here in the third quarter is something that I think is just so important to emphasize.
When we see that we were able to grow the sales by the amount that we were able to grow and you can imagine on the flipside going down by 20% here in the fourth quarter you remember last year or this year in the first quarter our sales were down by 30% I think it is just a really great testament to the organization that they were able to capitalize on the upside that we knew was coming in this case and adjust to the variations in that market going into the fourth quarter and whatever the first quarter will bring no doubt about it the team will maximize performance and also ensure a secure bottom line going into the first quarter.
The next question came from the line of William Stein of SunTrust.
Your line is now open.
Adam I just want to synthesize some of your comments and relative to the last question when you say that I forgot exactly what the wording of the press release and the comments were but I want to distinguish bookings from billings am I correct in looking at or reading everything that we've read and listening to the call that it's bookings that sound like they eroded more in the September month and into October as well is that sort of the linearity we should think about for bookings? I think it is a little tricky to look at bookings and how do bookings reflect on the subsequent quarter in particular when you have such a strong mobile quarter.
As you may recall our mobile business essentially books as it ships.
So it's not a book to ship kind of a business and so in a quarter like the third quarter where we did have a very strong sequential growth in our sales for mobile the bookings in fact followed and we had a book to bill in the quarter of just under 1-to-1.
What I would say is that as we went through the quarter that 1-to-1 got a little bit less into September and into the expectations that we saw here in October.
And so I think from that standpoint the trajectory during the quarter clearly at the end of the quarter that 1-to-1 ratio eroded somewhat and that was one of the signals of the expectations of demand from the customers going to the fourth quarter.
That's very helpful color Adam.
And then maybe one more on the automotive end market we've seen some weakening data from China in the earlier part of Q3 but much more recent data has been more positive in response to a stimulus presumably in China and I'm wondering is this lag that we're seeing what looks like a lag in your business where you had strong Q3 Q4 outlook is weaker do we take that as just a normal lag through the typical direct supply chain or is this a lag because of distribution or is there some other explanation and thanks very much? I think that as you termed it weakening from China I've said before even if our business in China has grown significantly from where it was in Asia has grown significantly from where it was before we're still not a great bellwether for what is happening in China.
I think that we have started to see as the quarter drew on some pullback in demand from customers in Asia and in China specifically.
Is there a lag due to normal direct supplier versus distribution what I can say is we don't do a lot of sales through distribution in the automotive market globally and that includes also in China.
What is the kind of lag through the various tiers because we're not selling in general directly to automotive OEMs you can imagine that there could be some lag there.
I don't know there has been a lot of talk of the recent stimulus in China and the reduction of VAT taxes on certain things and what does that translate into what types of cars what types of OEMs are benefiting from that I mean that can all have some impact.
Then I think again our position is not as broad as to say that we're a perfect reflection of what's happening in China.
What we see from our customers just of late has been some reduction in the expectations that we would've had.
Traditionally the Chinese market and we're just getting to know the Chinese automotive market a little bit it tends to be more of a second half loaded market than does the rest of the worldwide automotive market which tends to be more of a first half loaded market and I think that where you normally would have seen a buildup towards that higher levels demand I think maybe you see a little bit less of a buildup towards those higher levels of demand even if the demand is not necessarily falling off but it may only be a kind of a flat end demand.
That's one theory that one could ascribe to that but again we are not a great representation of the totality of the Chinese automotive market.
The next question came from the line of Mike Wood of Macquarie Security Group.
Your line is now open.
First question just on auto segment relatively a slight decline seen in global auto production over the past few months and it looks like you're pointing to a low single digit growth ramp on that segment in the fourth quarter at a much narrower content expansion than we've seen in the past.
Curious if there's something in there that's kind of making it look smaller than you've typically seen or is this just what may be now normal from a content expansion in that segment? I think what's implicit in our guidance for the fourth quarter is kind of a high single-digit local currency expansion of our prior year.
I think we just had a fabulous quarter in automotive 13% organic growth 39% in local currency in the third quarter and I think we continue to outperform the overall automotive market and we continue to have a conviction that we will continue to outperform the automotive market overall.
What is growth in units versus what is growth in content versus what is growth in Amphenol I think that will remain to be seen in the coming year and years to come but our position continues to expand we continue to leverage the acquisitions that we've made as well as the organic developments that we've made and we certainly feel that our ability to expand and the room for us to continue to expand in that space is not limited at this stage.
Great.
And as a follow-up the resources just that you discussed in your prepared remarks would that take time to fully be implemented should we expect it in the first quarter to sort of all flow through in incremental margins? I think that we always take very quickly action in Amphenol when we see demand changes and I think for those who follow the Company for many cycles you know that that doesn't take us to sit back and wait for kind of a news headline that says things are bad we look case by case across our 90 operating units and as we see demand decline or demand expectations decline from customers we take immediately action.
And so there's not necessarily a lag from when we start to see it to when we start to take action.
We take the action right away and we do that action in order to secure our conversion margins going into that time and I think if you look at our guidance here in the fourth quarter it's a very strong guidance from a bottom-line standpoint and I think that is reflective of our normal operating approach which is to take quick action in the moment as soon as we're seeing the problems from customers.
The next question came from the line of Matt Sheerin of Stifel.
Your line is open.
So just following up on that question Adam regarding your approach to taking cost at the operating level obviously reacting to near term order trends but as you look and obviously visibility into the Q1 is going to be tough here it seems like we're seeing a bit of a pause from customers and typically getting into the December quarter it's very backend – sorry front-end loaded so do you get a sense at all that this is a pause and you may start to see end markets like industrial and auto where you typically see things pickup in March that you may get signs that we will see that following a pause or will you continue to take cost as though it's going to flat-line here and be weak for a while? I think we don't bet on the future when we see this.
I think that's just a hallmark of the Company.
So we are not guessing where Q1 is going to go for example in the industrial or in the automotive markets.
We're taking the action in what we see today and we do that in a very prudent but also a very aggressive fashion and that's something that we do if we think that it's a one quarter or a two quarter or whether that is a significant downturn in the economy we try not to differentiate because once you get into the business of making cost reductions by guessing where the future is going to be you never make them in a timely fashion and that has always been for us a principle that we follow regardless.
Whether that's a one quarter a one month a two quarter or a one year we believe in our Company that you got to take those actions quickly and then you get out in front of customers rapidly to make sure that you're driving incremental sales and expanding your market position.
If you end up in a situation where that is a longer time period you are ahead of the game and you're out there with customers already while your competitors are sitting in conference rooms trying to solve the restructuring that they are trying to do.
That's just not how we approach these matters and I think the fact that we do that with these 90 general managers around the world it's not a big thing.
We're not sitting here at headquarters saying all right what percent of headcount do we take out we're talking 90 times to 90 GMs and several of those have some different expectations than they used to have well what are you doing about it? It's a very simple straightforward thing.
And most of the time we don't even have to ask they've already done it and we just get to them and we have a confirmatory discussion that yes we did what we needed to do and let's move on and get some orders.
Okay that's helpful.
And just regarding the mobility business I get the guide after a very strong September quarter but you understand that smartphones is a chunk of your revenue there but obviously you're doing wearables notebooks tablets could you go through some of those sectors and talk about performance how you're positioned there and how you're seeing demand trends? Sure.
Look I think we have a very strong position across the mobile devices market and I pointed out that in this quarter we especially saw strength from a lot of next-generation laptop products which have become much more connected devices now.
I think everybody is seeing that there was this kind of wave of tablets that came over the last three four years and there seems to be now kind of a back to the future here on October 21 of 2015 back to the future to the laptop where the laptops are becoming more an integral device and I think we've spent a lot of time making sure that we're well positioned on these next-generation products.
In addition we've gotten a lot of progress on accessories and accessories everything from wearables to smart devices and there's a whole kind of range of things that you can't really put into a category anymore.
And I think we talked last quarter about the fact that in addition to that we have worked with customers on – working with them in their production ramp-ups and helping them with products that can support their quick ramp-ups and I think across the board we are working in every opportunity with customers in the mobile devices market and they really rest on kind of two pillars.
One is that we continue to please our customers and not disappoint our customers from the standpoint of technology and we continue to exceed their expectations in terms of execution and in that market that ability to execute time and time again when they need you is something that means they keep coming back for more regardless of what the product is what the end product is what our product is that we're selling and that's something that we continue to emphasize strongly with our team and I think ultimately was one of the reasons we were able to perform so strongly here in the third quarter.
The next question came from the line of Jim Suva of Citi Your line is now open.
Congratulations to you and your team at Amphenol.
Two questions and I'll give them both kind of at the same time.
First of all on the mobility side and maybe my numbers and memory is a little inaccurate or old I had thought that this quarter mobility was going to be up kind of close to say 40%-ish due to seasonal and I think I heard you say maybe it was up 50%.
So it sounds like was that stronger than what you thought and then for the full year you had mentioned unchanged does that mean kind of the decline for Q4 coming down a little bit bigger or does it take up the full year up a little bit more? Then my second question is I believe Amphenol recognises sales on sale into the assembler so a large OEM when they place orders is it truly based upon your reduction in your forecast upon end market demand or is there inventory buffer that we can think about or is it like a multi-quarter adjustment just trying to get a feel on this recent slowdown doesn't have a multi-quarter impact due to both the assembler as well as the end product? I think with your first question with respect to mobile devices we expected sales to be up sort of approximately 40 or a little bit more than 40 and they were a little bit better than that.
I think you're correct in pointing that out.
And maybe the fourth quarter is a little bit worse but it's not meaningful compared to what the other things that we talked about.
I think that relative to your question about timing we obviously recognize our sales when we sell them to the person who places the order to us and the person who places the order to us is sometimes the OEM if they are building it and sometimes it's the contract manufacturer if they are building it.
In many cases we deal with contract manufacturers in particular in the markets that are more related to information technology communications market and whatnot.
Is there an inventory buffer is there an inventory correction? We don't have great visibility into the inventories of that supply chain.
We have about 11% of our sales go through distribution in the quarter and I think there we have some degree of inventory visibility but relative to our sales that go into contract manufacturers across the communications market there I can't tell you that we have a good read on what their inventories are.
We know only what you know through publicly available information and is that representative of an inventory correction or an inventory buffer I think it's hard for us to say at this point.
The next question came from the line of Craig Hettenbach of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
First question any update on the timing expected for the FCI transaction? No I don't think we have any news to report on that.
As we talked about last time we would expect that the deal would close by the end of the year.
We are still in the regulatory approval process and have regulatory approval processes essentially now in the hands of the China antitrust regulators.
As I think all of you know that is a real black box in China.
We are doing everything that we can to expedite it but it is not something that is necessarily easy to predict.
To the extent that there any news or update comes we certainly would let everybody know.
At this time we don't have any reason to think that it's any different although that it remains in that black box.
All right and then just a follow-up on M&amp;A more broadly and just thinking through the pipeline anything to be said in terms of periods of disruption like we're seeing now or when demand comes in do you see there will be opportunities to be more opportunistic or how you're seeing the landscape for M&amp;A as you go into 2016? Look we are very pleased with our M&amp;A progress this year.
We have closed three deals we have announced the fourth we continue to have a really great pipeline of acquisitions that we are pursuing and we continue to have great availability to pursue those acquisitions financially.
Does one quarter of a little bit of economic uncertainty create a different dynamic in the market for acquisitions? I don't think so.
I mean when we look back over time periods that were even more severe than this 2009 or others the fourth quarter of 2011 it's not that sellers miraculously stand up and say I'll sell my company to you quicker or cheaper that's just not the dynamic that we see.
We deal with very patient sellers and we're a very patient buyer and we take a very long-term approach to these things and so it's either corrections in the equity market or uncertainty in the overall economy that doesn't tend to drive acquisition activity any differently for us.
If you look over the years we have had years which are very strong economic years where we have done lots of deals we have had other years where we've done fewer deals and the same can be said of less strong economic years.
So I would not anticipate that there will be any meaningful change to the dynamics but what I would just emphasize again is we have a very strong pipeline and an outstanding track record here of being the acquirer of choice in this industry and as we look out over the interconnect and now the center industry for acquisition opportunities we remain very confident that we will find more acquisitions for the long-term.
And I think I would just add here acquisition for the Company is a real organic capacity that we have.
There's some years where our acquisitions will be at about that target that we have of generating about a third of our sales growth and there are other years where it can be more or less.
I think what you see this year with our current guidance that at the high end of guidance or at the midpoint we'd be somewhere 6% 7% growth in local currencies and acquisitions would make up a little bit more than half of that in this year.
We've had other years where they've made up a little bit less than that.
But I think overall it's the combination of the organic growth that we achieved together with the acquisition growth that ultimately creates great value for the Company and allows us to continue to expand our position with customers across the many markets that we serve.
The next question came from the line of Sherri Scribner of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Adam I just wanted to ask on the fourth quarter your commentary on the different sections almost seem to suggest that we're seeing moderation and caution almost across the board throughout most of your segments.
I think in all of the commentary for 4Q you've guided to relatively flattish or slightly down obviously with the exception of the devices market.
I know you called out industrial automotive and infotech and data as being particularly weak but I was hoping to get some additional granularity on what you're really seeing in terms of where the weaknesses is coming from is it coming mostly from commentary from the [indiscernible] is it specifically U.S.-based is it Europe based any additional commentary on sort of what you're seeing would be helpful? I think you're correct in one sense which is we do see slight changes across many of our markets.
I think what both Craig and I talked about those that the predominance of the change that we see and the change that's reflected in our guidance at the midpoint is really coming roughly half of that coming from industrial and the remainder coming from auto and IT datacom not to say that we don't see small changes in the others and I think you're correct in saying that more of those are negative than are positive and that's the reflection of this overall market environment which as we've said appears to be more uncertain now than it was before.
I talked about the fact that in automotive for example we see more of a reduction in expectations coming out of China.
So that clearly has some geographical influence to it.
As it relates to the industrial market broadly there's no doubt about it that China and other emerging geographies there has been some sort of step-down in the expectations or in the actual growth that is occurring in those markets and that has kind of a knock-on effect across the industrial market.
And whether that is in things like heavy equipment or whether that is in areas like medical or oil and gas there's no doubt that that feels like it is a little bit of a broader geographical spread of where our customers are but the origin of where that uncertainty comes may come more from those emerging markets as kind of the trigger to that weakening that we've seen in the expectations of our industrial customers.
And I think the IT market is not wholly unrelated to that either in that when you see an emerging market some reductions typically the IT market has a very strong fourth quarter that tends to be seasonally the strongest quarter as budgets flush and other things happen and I think the moderation that we've seen there can also be somewhat linked back to that overall economic sense that may have started in emerging markets that says that maybe there's not going to be that pop-up spending coming here at the end of the year and those places – and then that has a carryon effect through the overall market.
So I think that if you want to pin it on a geography I wouldn't pin it specifically on one country like China or Brazil or Russia but there's no doubt that collectively across emerging markets there appears to be a less sanguine view of demand going into the fourth quarter.
I mentioned also in my prepared remarks relative to industrial that the downturn in the commodities market has obviously been very severe everybody is well aware of what has happened there and I think there have been some well-reported knock-on effects of that across the industrial market and what that means for equipment and all of that.
One could even look at something like oil and gas and draw a link to helicopters where we've seen a reduction in our commercial air and particularly in helicopters which was an important growth part of that where the largest single purchaser of commercial helicopters is in fact the oil and gas industry and you can bet that they are purchasing a few less helicopters these days than they were.
So I think there are some linkages from that that have some of those knock-on effects that you alluded to but to find just one golden goose here in terms of what's causing that that I wouldn't be able to do.
Okay I think those comments were helpful.
So thank you for that additional color.
I also just on the automotive market that's been a strong growth driver for you over the past couple of quarters can you talk a little bit about what you saw in the quarter in terms of auto production and what you're expecting for 4Q given that things are softening a bit and what's the outlook longer-term? Sure.
I think we have never tied too much our results to just unit production and I think that's very simply put because we see the opportunity to grow in the electronics in the car we see a lot of electronics growing and we continue to outperform unit production just growing last quarter organically by 13%.
Clearly that's well in advance of any unit production numbers that have either come out or expected to come out at this stage.
So I wouldn't tell you that we have a good view on what units are going to do here in the fourth quarter.
This is not where we focus on.
I think we focus on servicing our customers at the various tiers of the automotive industry and based on the information that we've gotten from them going here into the fourth quarter we have adjusted our expectations accordingly but I don't think we're a good read on what is the unit going to be in the automotive market.
The next question came from the line of Shawn Harrison of Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
First question I just wanted to I guess the trends in the IT markets that you're seeing the incremental weakness is there any reasons to suggest that that's also not affecting the FCI business so when that comes onboard the revenue run rate that was highlighted at the time of the acquisition announcement is maybe a bit lower or a bit more challenged to growth dynamics? Sure.
Look I mean I think that what we see in the IT datacom market is probably not different from what others will see in that market and then FCI being another player in that market would they see some of that? That may very well be.
I think the fact is we don't buy FCI for just their performance here in a quarter or two we acquire that company with a long-term view that is a very positive long-term view of the benefits that come from the combination of Amphenol and FCI and if there's something happening in the market in either the short-term or the medium-term that doesn't change at all our expectations for the company nor our confidence that that's a great thing for Amphenol.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up I know it's tough to ask you to look out into 2016 and use a crystal ball but are there end markets where you expect growth to be challenged or maybe potentially limited and no organic growth in 2016 given the trend you're seeing currently? Look I think the crystal ball is not easy to exercise right now.
I think we have just taken our expectations down here in the fourth quarter and I've talked a lot about why that is.
What is that going to turn into as the calendar page turns into January it's too early to say what that would be.
I think that I mentioned in each of the markets those areas where we see that the Company still has great potential and great position and as we look into next year will there be some markets that will perform better than others and others that will perform worse than the rest no doubt about it.
I mean that's the beauty of the diversification of the Company.
I think at this stage though it's too early to give kind of a prognosis about what may be starting here on January 1.
Fair enough thanks as always.
The next question came from the line of Steven Fox of Cross Research.
Your line is open.
Adam just first question real quick I know you've given a lot of color on the markets but when you think about the different distribution channels that you have cited as maybe showing some weakness are there any that you would say were over-inventoried or would you say it's a fairly good reflection of demand any color there will be appreciated? I think we may have seen some slight inventory adjustments in the quarter in a few of those.
I mean the areas where we have more distribution is industrial commercial air and military.
Those are the three markets where we have the most distribution presence.
We have some limited distribution presence in others.
But I think there was also sell-through.
We certainly saw on the sell-through side that orders at sell-through and that limited visibility that we have across that 11% of our sales were certainly started to moderate as the quarter went on.
And so I don't know that there was significant inventory movement at that stage.
Okay great.
And then just specifically on the auto expectation just relative to what the Company was thinking 90 days ago and now I guess it will be interesting to sort of understand how much maybe was sort of Amphenol specific on where you had expected maybe programs to ramp that are delayed whether they were mid-model upgrades or new models et cetera and how much was just pure unit demand if there's any way to sort of provide color on that it'd be appreciated? I think the best I can say is virtually all of the changes that we've seen in the automotive market appear to be just generalised forecast reductions from customers.
These were not due to program delays and certainly not due to losses of business that we had.
That was just overall forecast coming down from customers.
Now forecast can come down because of units they can come down because of take rates they can come down because of mix of units and the types of cars that are there.
I think I mentioned in China for example that there is – while it's true that there are various stimulus programs that people have talked about there's also some talk about the mix of cars and whether those are higher content or lower content cars that are being stimulated in China.
That's one example maybe of an area where even if units are at a certain level if the overall mix of the size of the cars and of the feature sets of those cars is different that would naturally have some impact on us in the short-term.
So I think that we certainly would not point to anything where we were losing or where there was a delay per se it's just the forecasts are coming in lower.
The next question came from the line of Mark Delaney of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
First question was on M&amp;A I was hoping you could clarify if you closed any acquisitions in either the third quarter or quarter to date that you can point to.
And then related to that if you could just update us on the M&amp;A landscape and I know there's been some discussion on the topic already but if you can talk about the potential size of acquisitions that may be out there and just given that Amphenol is now a much larger company than it has been historically if there's either enough small deals or larger deals that are potentially available that can move the needle and still support the overall revenue growth as it has in the past? No we didn't close any deals in the quarter or announced any deals in the quarter.
We certainly would let to know when and if we do.
I did mention we have already closed three deals so far this year and we have signed another one the FCI deal and I think we feel very good about the M&amp;A landscape.
We have made over the last five years I think some 22 23 acquisitions maybe 25 Craig reminds me and we have a really fabulous execution ability on those acquisitions.
You asked a question as the Company grows in size how do we balance small deals versus larger deals? I think we have demonstrated how we do that.
We continue to strive to find unique entrepreneurial kind of tuck-in acquisitions and we have a strong appetite still for those companies and in the second quarter we acquired DoCharm and ProCom both just really outstanding companies in their respective fields and those are great acquisitions in that they bolster our capabilities either in a certain technology in a certain region with a certain set of customers.
At the same time we continue to make larger deals and I think we announced the FCI deal.
It was just a year ago September that we made the Casco acquisition a year prior to that that we made the Advanced Sensors acquisition.
So I think we have continued to find large sized transactions which can kind of move the needle at the same time as we continue to prosecute a great pipeline of tuck-in acquisitions and we would view that very much the same going forward.
The Company has just a great track record of M&amp;A and our financial strength enables that at the same time as our organizational structure and our culture enables us to assimilate those companies very smoothly and I think that's a great advantage for the Company going forward.
Thank you for those comments.
And then for follow-up on the mobile networks market I know 2014 was a very strong year on those lots of build-outs and so this year is partly impacted by some of the consolidation that's going on at the customer base and tough comps and maybe inventory reductions I was hoping you could just kind of comment what your customers are suggesting this business can be at over the intermediate-term and is there still growth potential from further LTE build-outs as we go forward or should we expect lower growth to continue in mobile networks as we start thinking into 2016? Look I am obviously not a great forecaster of growth in mobile networks having taken our expectations down twice already this year both at the end of the first quarter and the end of the second quarter and we do see today even if we grew in the third quarter on a sequential basis we don't expect further growth here in the fourth quarter.
I think it's safe to say that our view and the industry's view coming into this year was a more positive view of the mobile networks market than ultimately we think it's going to end up.
And the reasons for that have been well written about whether that is the digestion of last year's outstanding investments that were made whether that's the variety of mergers and corporate combinations that have either been talked about or signed or executed upon and there's also other kind of extraneous things that have happened for example in China with the anticorruption investigations that have gone on and by all accounts have deferred some of the spending there.
So what does that mean going into next year I think it's very hard to give a prognosis at this stage but I think what's very clear is that this is a market that is ultimately driven by consumer demand consumers who are consuming more and more video on their devices who are using their devices as kind of a replacement for their desktop for their television for their home computer for their work computer.
So as mobile devices become essentially the linchpin around which we revolve our technology live I know personally that I just got a text message two days ago I was not so happy about when my kids blew through my huge monthly data plan and I had to pay another $15 three days ago.
So there's no doubt about it that I don't think I'm the only one blowing through my data plan every month on my family shared data and there is a huge demand growth in demand for data in the mobile networks market.
How does that ultimately manifest itself in the spending in the capital spending of the wireless operators around the world? That is a timing that is very difficult to give a prognosis on.
I think we saw in the third quarter some incremental strength from North America and we are very pleased to be well-positioned for that.
We have not seen that strength in places like Europe and Asia.
There's been some signs of strength in India as an example.
That's a market that we haven't seen a lot of strength in for three four five years.
So I think for us the most important thing is that we are well-positioned and we continue to grow our position in all the places.
When the spending comes we'll be ready for it we'll be well-positioned and we'll be the first phone call for our customers.
Our final question came from the line of Wamsi Mohan of Bank of America.
Your line is open sir.
Adam I was just wondering with all the consolidation in the IT datacom space do you see this ultimately as a market with an overall shrinking TAM for Amphenol as hardware moves to more commoditized platforms and companies move more to cloud-based deployments and how do you think about the R&amp;D deployment as it pertains to this end market and investing in like high-speed backplane connectors? I think the simple answer is we don't think of that as a shrinking TAM Wamsi but we do think of it as a changing TAM and we've talked a lot about that.
There is no question that the consolidation is a reflection of a lot of changes in that marketplace.
What used to be OEMs who would make boxes put them and ship them to customers who needed some IT hardware that has really changed and is in the process of flipping on its head.
It's a slow flip how that happens that change towards the Web service providers and others some of whom have taken it upon themselves to design and spec out their own equipment but it is no doubt an enormous change in that market.
It's actually a very exciting change for a company who can get on top and ahead of that and I think that's something that we have really positioned ourselves to do.
The reality is if we look last quarter in the IT datacom market we grew in local currencies about 4% organically also about 4% last quarter and I could tell you that a good portion if not all of that growth came from expansions that we've seen in sales to non-traditional customers.
And so we continue to expand our position with these non-traditional customers in the IT datacom market on a global basis and I think that as that settles out over time we will have a great position there and whether that's in high-speed backplane products whether that's in power products whether that's in high-speed cable assemblies and I/O connectors and fiber optics we have a wonderful product offering there that can service customers regardless of what part of the supply chain that they are in.
No doubt about it it's a changing TAM but I would not say at all that that's a shrinking TAM long-term.
Thanks Adam.
And just to follow-up on your comment would you say the non-traditional buyers have similar margin profile on your products relative to the traditional players? Look I mean we make good money on all what we sell.
I think that I would not differentiate between them in terms of the potential.
Ultimately margin is related to how much value you can deliver to your customers and I can tell you that customers across the IT datacom market have enormous needs for new technologies and to the extent that you can enable their new technologies and their needs with your new technologies then ultimately they are willing to pay a fair price not a higher price a fair price and then it's incumbent on us to get our costs in the right position such that we can make money on any business that we participate in.
Very good.
I think operator it appears that that's our final question.
At this time Craig and I would like to once again thank all of you for your time today and we look forward to speaking to you again here in about three months.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today's conference and have a nice day.
A recording of this conference will be available for 30 days following this call.
You may access the recorded conference by dialing 1-866-358-4539 or 203-369-0140.
PIN is 7183.
Thank you for participating.
We will now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call for Amphenol Corporation.
[Operator Instructions] At the request of the company today’s conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to introduce today’s conference host Mr.
Craig Lampo.
Sir you may begin.
Good afternoon.
My name is Craig Lampo and I am the Amphenol’s CFO.
I am here together with Adam Norwitt our CEO.
We’d like to welcome everyone to our fourth quarter conference call.
Q4 results were released this morning and I will provide some financial commentary on the quarter and then Adam will give an overview of the business and current trends and then Q&amp;A.
The company closed the fourth quarter with sales and EPS of $1.431 billion and $0.63.
Sales were flat in U.S.
dollars and up 3% in local currencies compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
From an organic standpoint excluding both acquisitions and currency sales in the fourth quarter increased 1%.
Sequentially sales were down 2% in both U.S.
dollars and organically after a very strong third quarter.
For the full year 2015 sales grew 4% in U.S.
dollars 8% in local currencies and 3% organically compared to 2014.
Breaking down sales into our two segments our Cable business which comprised 6% of our sales was down 4% from last year primarily due to the effect of currency translations.
The interconnect business which comprised 94% of our sales was up 1% from last year reflecting the benefits of both organic growth and the company’s acquisition program partially offset by currency translation.
Adam will comment further on trends by market in a few minutes.
Operating income increased to $289 million in the fourth quarter.
Operating margin excluding one-time items was a strong 20.2% equal to both the fourth quarter of 2014 as well as the third quarter of 2015.
On an as-reported basis operating margins were 19.5% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
From a segment standpoint in the Cable segment margins were 12.5% compared to 12.1% last year.
The increase in margins related primarily to strong operating execution and some favorable impact from commodities.
In the interconnect segment margins were 22.4% which is consistent with last year on similar sales levels.
We are very pleased with the company’s operating margin achievement.
This excellent performance is a direct result of the strength and commitment of the company’s entrepreneurial management team which continues to foster high-performance action-oriented culture in which each individual operating unit is able to appropriately adjust to market conditions and thereby maximize both growth and profitability in a challenging market environment.
Through the careful fostering of such a culture and the deployment of these strategies the management team has achieved industry-leading operating margins and remains fully committed to driving enhanced performance.
Interest expense for the quarter was $17 million compared to $20 million last year reflecting the benefit of a lower average effective interest rate in the current quarter more than offsetting the impact of higher average debt levels resulting from the company’s acquisition and stock buyback programs.
The lower average rate is primarily a result of the implementation of a new commercial paper program.
Other income was $4 million in the fourth quarter of ‘15 compared to $5 million last year and consists primarily of interest income on cash and short-term cash investments.
The company’s effective tax rate was 26.5% in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to 26.4% in the fourth quarter of ‘14 excluding one-time items.
On an as-reported basis the company’s effective tax rate was 26.2% in the fourth quarter of ‘14.
Net income was a very strong 14% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2015 and EPS was $0.63 equal to the fourth quarter of 2014 excluding one-time items.
For the full year 2015 EPS excluding one-time items was $2.43 up 8% over 2014 an excellent performance considering the current market environment.
Orders for the quarter were $1.463 billion a 2% increase over the fourth quarter of 2014 resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 1.02 to 1.
The company continues to be an excellent generator of cash.
Cash flow from operations was a record $322 million in the fourth quarter or approximately 159% of net income.
For the full year operating cash flow was $1.030 billion or 133% of net income.
The company continues to target cash flow from operations in excess of net income.
From a working capital standpoint inventory was $852 million at the end of December down 4% from September.
Inventory days were 79 days down 1 day compared to September.
Accounts receivable was approximately $1.1 billion at the end of December down approximately 5% from September.
Days sales outstanding was 71 days consistent with September levels.
Accounts payable was $588 million at the end of December down approximately 11% from September levels.
Payable days were 54 days down 6 days compared to September levels and still within our normal range.
The cash flow from operations of $322 million along with stock option proceeds of $25 million were used primarily to reduce debt by approximately $27 million to purchase approximately 53 million of the company’s stock to fund net capital expenditures of $39 million to fund dividend payments of $43 million which resulted in an increase of cash cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $162 million net of translation.
During the quarter the company repurchased 1 million shares under its January 2015 10 million share stock repurchase program.
5.5 million shares remain available under the program through January 2017.
At December 31 cash and short-term investments were $1.8 billion the majority of which is held outside the U.S.
The company used just under $1.2 billion of its cash and short-term investments net of cash acquired to fund the previously announced FCI acquisition on January 8.
We are very pleased to have been able to fund the entire acquisition with cash on hand.
Total debt at December 31 was $2.8 billion and net debt was approximately $1 billion.
After funding the acquisition of FCI net debt is approximately $2.2 billion.
At quarter end the company had issued $824 million under its $1.5 billion commercial paper program and Q4 2015 EBITDA was approximately $343 million.
From a financial perspective this was an excellent performance.
Before I turn the call over to Adam I wanted to just make a couple of comments relative to our guidance.
As previously noted we completed the acquisition of FCI on January 8 and consequently the results of FCI will be included in the consolidated company results effective as of that date and therefore are incorporated in our guidance.
For the full year 2016 we expect that the FCI acquisition will generate approximately $0.12 of accretion on sales of approximately $570 million.
I would also note that while the acquisition is accretive to EPS the inclusion of FCI in the company’s consolidated results will reduce our operating income margin by approximately 90 to 100 basis points as FCI currently operates at a low double-digit operating income level.
As we have previously stated the management team is fully committed to improving FCI margins up to the average of the company over time.
From a sales perspective our guidance reflects an organic growth rate excluding all acquisitions and currency impacts of down 6% to down 3% in the first quarter of ‘16 and down 1% to up 2% for the full year of 2016.
In addition our guidance excludes any one-time charges associated with the FCI acquisition related to external acquisition transaction costs or other one-time acquisition related costs such as amortization of backlog or any one-time costs associated with improvements in cost structure.
Adam will now provide an overview of the business and current trends.
Well thank you very much Craig and it’s my pleasure to also welcome all of you to our call here and I hope it’s certainly not too late to wish each of you a Happy New Year.
As Craig mentioned I am going to highlight a little bit our fourth quarter and as well as reflect back on our full year achievements in 2015.
I will then spend some time to discuss the trends and our progress in our served markets.
And then finally I will make a few comments on our outlook for the first quarter and the full year and of course we will have time at the end for questions.
With respect to the fourth quarter certainly our results in this quarter were stronger than expected as we exceeded the high end of our guidance in sales and earnings despite what is clearly a heightened level of market uncertainty.
Although we had expected some decline from prior year our revenues ultimately were flat in U.S.
dollars and increased by 3% in local currencies reaching that level of $1.431 billion.
I think Craig mentioned as well that the company booked a record $1.463 billion in orders which represented a book to bill of 1.02 to 1.
We are especially proud that in the quarter we equaled our highest levels of profitability in the company’s history as we sustained our industry leading operating margins at the same 20.2% that we achieved in the third quarter.
In fact over the last five quarters three of those quarters we have achieved that 20.2%.
Operating cash flow was another real highlight in the quarter as we reached a new record of $322 million of operating cash flow and actually free cash flow of $281 million.
These are really just great confirmations of the company’s discipline and financial strength.
I am extremely proud of this Amphenol organization.
Our results this quarter confirm once again the true value of our entrepreneurial culture as we once again exercised both the agility and the discipline necessary to perform well despite what are clearly significant and mounting uncertainties across the worldwide economy.
Craig mentioned that we closed the FCI acquisition in – just here recently in January.
And we are extremely excited to have completed that acquisition on January 8 after we finally received the last antitrust approval which was from China at the end of December.
FCI is the largest acquisition in the history of the company.
It represents a significant expansion of our interconnect product offerings for customers in the IT datacom industrial mobile infrastructure automotive and mobile devices markets.
But most importantly we have added a truly outstanding group of talented individuals to our organization.
In fact just last week we hosted a large group of the FCI management team here at our headquarters in Wallingford and what I can only confirm for you is that they are all truly excited to be part of the Amphenol organization.
Looking into 2016 as Craig discussed we expect approximately $0.12 per share of accretion from the FCI transaction on revenues of approximately $570 million.
Long-term we look forward to capitalizing on the wide range of opportunities that will now be available to Amphenol given our broader range of technologies and deeper penetration of customers in these many exciting markets that FCI brings us.
And as we welcome this excellent new team to Amphenol all I can say is that we remain very confident that our successful acquisition program will continue to create value for Amphenol into the future.
Now with respect to the 2015 there is no question that 2015 was a very strong year for the company in particular given the many economic and geopolitical disruptions that emerged throughout the year.
First we expanded our position in the overall market growing our sales by 4% in U.S.
dollars and 8% in local currencies ultimately reaching that new sales record of $5.569 billion.
In addition we expanded our operating margins to the new record of 19.9% for the full year while generating EPS of $2.43 both excluding one-time items.
This represented a growth of 8% in EPS from prior year.
We also had as you all know a very busy year in our acquisition program as in addition to FCI we acquired Invotec DoCharm and ProCom earlier in the year.
These acquisitions are going to create great value for the company in fact already are creating that value as we expand our position across really most of our served markets.
And in particular we have now been joined by a great range of new talented managers thereby strengthening our already impressive management team.
In 2015 it’s once again a reflection that our consistent focus on growing with the broadening array of customers across all of our diversified end markets has ultimately resulted in Amphenol strengthening our position across the many segments of the electronics industry.
And in addition our entrepreneurial organization has accelerated the development of innovative interconnect technologies in support of our simple but long-term mission to be the enabler of electronics revolution.
These developments have allowed Amphenol to capitalize on exciting new markets and thereby have broadened the opportunity for our future expansion.
While 2015 was not always an easy year as we entered 2016 I can just say that our management team is highly confident that we have now built a new platform of strength from which we can drive even better long-term performance for many years to come.
Now turning towards our progress across our various served markets I just want to comment that our team remains extremely focused on maintaining a balance and diversified market position.
And this is really an asset that becomes even more valuable during times of economic uncertainty.
And I think we all know that we are in those times.
In 2015 not one of our end markets represented more than 19% of our sales and I will just say with the acquisition of FCI we continue to expect that no market will make up even 20% of our sales as we now see it.
Turning to the markets first the military market represented 10% of our sales in the fourth quarter and also 10% of our sales for the full year of 2015.
Sales in the military market were down slightly in U.S.
dollars and were flat in local currencies from prior year as growth in military airframe was offset by reductions in communications and rotorcraft.
We were in fact pleased in the fourth quarter to see stronger than expected 4% sequential increase from the third quarter with strength across most types of military equipment.
For the full year 2015 our sales were down slightly in U.S.
dollars and were up 2% in local currencies in the military market.
While the overall market has remained basically stable in 2015 we are pleased to be seeing the early signs of some renewed growth.
Our team has done an excellent job of strengthening our overall market position during these most recent more moderate years as we have continued to expand our high technology product offering across many complex new equipment platforms.
Looking into 2016 while we expect sales in the first quarter to remain roughly at the levels of the fourth quarter we now expect to achieve growth in the low single-digits for the full year as we realize the benefits of our expanded content on new military equipment and as certain new programs launch.
The Commercial Aerospace market represented 6% of our sales in the fourth quarter and 6% also for the full year.
Sales were down by 4% in U.S.
dollars and were flat in local currencies compared to prior year as stronger sales on to new airplane platforms were offset by reductions in commercial helicopter and business jet related sales.
We were actually very encouraged during the quarter to achieve a strong 12% sequential increase from our third quarter sales levels which was driven in particular by ramp ups of new large jet programs.
For the full year 2015 our sales declined by 7% in U.S.
dollars and just slightly in local currency driven by reductions in commercial helicopter and business jets sales.
And we believe that that was related in part to the significant declines in the purchases of such equipment by oil and gas companies.
Regardless of this more challenging market environment in 2015 we are very pleased with our continued progress across the commercial end market as we have taken excellent advantage of the proliferation of new electronics on next generation jetliners which we are enabling with our broadened range of high-technology interconnect products.
Looking ahead to 2016 we expect sales to remain at or slight above these levels in the first quarter and we expect to return to solid growth for the full year as production volumes of certain new planes ramp up creating an exciting long-term opportunity for the company.
The industrial market represented 17% of our sales both in the quarter and for the full year.
Sales in this market grew by actually a strong 7% in U.S.
dollars and 10% in local currency and that was driven in particular by growth in the hybrid bus and truck heavy equipment and alternative energy segments as well as by some contribution from the Goldstar acquisition we made last year.
And this was offset in part by significant and continued declines in our sales to customers in the oil and gas segment.
Sequentially our sales grew by a higher than expected 6% resulting also from strength in those same segments.
For the full year of 2015 sales in the industrial market grew by 5% in U.S.
dollars and 8% in local currency as the contributions from our acquisition program together with that same strength in hybrid bus and truck heavy equipment and alternative energy was in part offset by the significant declines in oil and gas.
I can just say that we remain very proud of our diversified industrial businesses and we have continued to make progress selling an ever broader range of interconnect sensor and antenna products into the many growth segments of this market.
Now with the addition of FCI we have significantly strengthened our position across a wide array of embedded computing applications in the industrial market and we believe that this highly complementary offering is going to create an excellent long-term growth platform for the company.
For the first quarter we anticipate sales to increase from the current levels due to the benefit from the FCI acquisition and looking towards the full year of 2016 we now expect sales growth in the high-teens in the industrial market for the full year as we benefit from contributions of FCI together with moderate organic growth from the many segments of the industrial market.
The automotive market represented 18% of our sales in the fourth quarter as well as in the full year of 2015.
Sales in that market increased a very strong 5% in U.S.
dollars and 12% in local currency.
And this was driven by stronger sales of our products used in a wide array of new vehicle electronics.
Sequentially our sales were a bit stronger than expected and slightly exceeded our Q3 levels.
For the full year 2015 we are very pleased to have achieved another year of excellent growth as our sales grew by 23% in U.S.
dollars 33% in local currency and 12% organically.
This is an outstanding year by any industry comparison for our automotive products.
Our successful strategy has included driving an expanded range of interconnect and sensor products across a more diversified range of vehicles and onboard electronics around the world while at the same time identifying complementary high-technology acquisitions.
We look forward to continuing to realize the benefits from this approach for many years to come.
For the first quarter we expect sales to increase moderately from current levels.
And for the full year 2016 we expect to achieve mid to high single-digit growth as we continue to benefit from our recent acquisitions as well as our expanded range of automotive electronics into which our interconnect and sensor products are designed.
The mobile devices market represented 20% of our sales in the quarter and 19% of our sales for the full year 2015.
Our performance in this market was actually somewhat stronger than we had expected as sales were essentially flat to prior year and down by 14% sequentially from our very strong third quarter.
Once again our team demonstrated their incredible dynamic agility as they were able to flex their resources quickly in the face of this sequential reduction all while staying poised to capitalize on any upside opportunities for incremental sales that became available in the market.
For the full year of 2015 our sales in the mobile devices market increased a very strong 13% from prior year driven by growth in next-generation laptops mobile accessories as well as production-related products for customers in the mobile market.
We remain very confident that our highly reactive and agile organization will continue to secure a strong position in the ever dynamic mobile devices market and are encouraged by our excellent technology positions that run across a wide range of new mobile computing platforms.
In particular mobile functionality continues to be integrated into an ever broader array of devices expanding the growth opportunity for our interconnect and antenna products.
Looking into the first quarter we now expect a sequential reduction in sales of approximately 30% due to normal seasonality as well as the impact from strong ramp-ups that occurred during the second half of 2015.
This decline is roughly similar to the seasonal decline that we experienced in the first quarter of 2015.
At this point we expect sales for the full year 2016 to be slightly down from our 2015 levels.
Regardless of this more muted outlook for 2016 we remain extremely confident that our dynamic and agile team has positioned us to benefit from any increases in demand that may arise in this always exciting market.
The mobile networks market represented 8% of our sales in the quarter as well as for the full year.
And our sales in this market were a bit better than expected but still declined from prior year by 7% in U.S.
dollars and 2% in local currencies.
Sequentially our sales were essentially flat to the third quarter as growth in sales to wireless equipment manufacturers was offset by a normal seasonal decline in sales to service providers.
No question that 2015 was a very challenging year in the mobile infrastructure market as our sales declined 18% in U.S.
dollars and 13% in local currency primarily due to a pause in spending by many wireless operators around the world.
Nevertheless we have continued to expand our position with customers around the world in the mobile infrastructure market.
And in particular we have made great strides in developing new interconnect and antenna products that are integrated into next-generation wireless systems.
Looking into the first quarter as well as the full year 2016 we do expect a significant increase in our sales to the mobile infrastructure market due to the contributions from the FCI acquisition.
While we do not at this time though expect overall spending environment to improve our broadened product offering positions us better than ever before to capitalize on the opportunities that will arise when spending inevitably resumes in the future.
Now turning to the information technology and datacom market sales in this market represented 15% of our sales in the fourth quarter and 16% of our sales for the full year 2015.
As we had expected our sales were down slightly from prior year as well as prior quarter as sales moderated in products that are integrated into servers storage and networking equipment.
For the full year of 2015 our sales grew by 2% in U.S.
dollars and 3% in local currency as declines that we saw in storage and networking products were offset by increased sales into server applications together with the strong progress that we have made selling into the new generation of web and datacenter customers.
Regardless of this current moderation in growth I could just say that we continue to make excellent progress in our development of advanced high-technology products as well as in our penetration of the many newly arising Web 2.0 and datacenter customers.
Now with the acquisition of FCI we have truly the leading product offering for customers across all areas of the IT datacom market and this positions us very strongly as customers adapt to deal with the significant expansion of data traffic in all aspects around the world.
Both our traditional as well as the new generation of customers are driving their datacenter equipment to new levels of performance in order to handle the rapid expansion of data that’s driven in particular by the proliferation of new mobile devices as well as by the continuing spread of video on the Internet and cloud computing.
Looking ahead to the first quarter and the full year 2016 we expect a significant increase in our sales due to the FCI acquisition.
And we continue to look forward to creating great long-term value with our many investments in this space.
Finally the broadband communication market represented 6% of our sales in the quarter as well as for the full year.
And sales decreased slightly in U.S.
dollars and were flat in local currencies from prior year as domestic MSO build-out activity slowed due to the traditional seasonality in that space.
Sales were down slightly from the third quarter because of that seasonality.
For the full year our sales were down by 5% in U.S.
dollars and 2% in local currency.
And essentially we were impacted by both the reduction in capital spending due to the many corporate consolidations that have occurred or are occurring in the broadband market together with the slowdown in spending by operators in certain regions in particular Latin America which as a result more due to the significant currency devaluations in that region.
For the first quarter while we expect demand to increase moderately from our current levels we do believe that it’s still too early to expect growth for the full year of 2016.
Nevertheless as the industry eventually digests the many consolidations that are ongoing we will be very well-positioned to capitalize with our expanded range of interconnect and cable products on the growth opportunities that will no doubt emerge.
So let me just say with respect to 2015 I am just extremely proud of our performance.
While the global economy did weaken throughout the course of the year and the market environment remains even today very uncertain the Amphenol organization continued and continues to execute extraordinarily well both organically as well as through our acquisition program to expand our market position while strengthening our financial performance.
The company’s superior performance is a direct reflection of our distinct competitive advantages our leading technology increasing position with customers in diverse markets worldwide presence our lean and very flexible cost structure combined all with our agile and entrepreneurial management team.
Now turning to the outlook.
As I have already mentioned several times there continues to be a great deal of market uncertainty around the world and accordingly and based on a continuation of the current economic environment as well as on constant exchange rates we now expect for the first quarter and the full year 2016 the following results.
For the first quarter we anticipate sales in the range of $1.380 billion to $1.420 billion and EPS excluding one-time items in the range of $0.55 to $0.57 respectively.
This represents a sales increase versus prior year of 4% to 7% in U.S.
dollars and 6% to 9% in local currency and an EPS change of down 4% to flat the prior year.
For the full year 2016 we expect sales in the range of $6.04 billion to $6.2 billion and EPS excluding one-time items in the range of $2.54 to $2.62 respectively.
For the full year this represents sales and EPS growth of 8% to 11% and 5% to 8% over 2015 levels.
In constant currencies this guidance represents a year-over-year growth of 9% to 12%.
We are very very encouraged by our current and strong outlook in sales and earnings especially given the many dynamics across the global economy.
And I am extremely confident that in the ability of our outstanding management team to build upon our newly established record levels of revenues and EPS and to continue to capitalize on the many opportunities to grow our market position and expand our profitability in 2016.
And with that Operator we would be very happy to take whatever questions there may be.
Thank you.
The question-and-answer period will now begin.
Our first question came from the line of Matt Sheerin of Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
Thanks and good afternoon and happy New Year Adam and Craig.
Thank you.
First I have just a couple of questions actually on FCI.
I know when you announced the deal last summer I think you said it was at $600 million run rate for FY ‘15 and now you are guiding around $570 million this year I know they have a lot of distribution exposure what was the run rate coming out of 2015 and did they see the same weakness that other semiconductor and component suppliers saw in the distribution channel was that why the number is lower now? Thank you very much for the question.
I wouldn’t actually say that it’s related necessarily to distribution channel.
At the time we gave the guidance I think there is two aspects of why the $600 million becomes $570 million.
Number one is FCI certainly was impacted by currency as other companies were.
They have similar if not even slightly more exposure to certain currencies.
And so there is a significant impact of currency translation.
In addition we closed on the deal in January 8 so we lose a solid week of sales in the year.
And I would just tell you that if you think about the markets where FCI is we have what I consider a relatively prudent and conservative outlook in those markets looking forward.
And I would say that FCI is no different than that.
But I wouldn’t necessarily say that there is any significant change in terms of distribution that is any different from what maybe we have seen nothing.
That’s not the big thing happening.
Got it.
And I know you talked about Craig mentioned the plan to improve margins and get the FCI operating margins to the Amphenol level could you give us a little bit more color on how you plan to get there in potential timeframe? Sure be happy to do that.
As we previously mentioned we don’t integrate companies in a traditional sense.
We certainly will look at the overall cost cost structure and to maximize certainly the value of their great technology that they do have.
I think what we will do is over time look at certainly all these aspects of their cost structure look at their organizational structure and whatnot and certainly we will be able to – we are confident we will be able to increase the margins over that time.
This is certainly not going to be an overnight action.
We are certainly in the process of working with management to go through kind of the details of the organization.
But we are very confident and that we would be able to bring the profitability levels up over some time period.
Yes.
And the only thing that I would maybe add to that is the management team from FCI they have also that same aspiration.
We have seen this in many times with acquisitions that we have made where the performance of that company has may be at somewhat less of a level than ours.
They always from the outside say how is it that they can do it and as soon as they come into Amphenol they start to see how there is that sort of cultural ability to achieve those high margins and there is nothing better than a little bit of a peer interaction to help that same management team find ways to spend less or sell the product at a higher value wherever that may be.
Ultimately with FCI just like it is with every one of our businesses it comes down to the margin is the price less the cost and I think that there will be many actions that can be taken on both sides of that equation.
But the most important action is already there which is that the team is committed to it.
When does it happen ultimately what’s the timing of that this is a very hard thing to predict at this stage.
And I think we have taken an approach to guide towards the margins as they are today.
Over time though we remain very confident that we will bring that to close to if not above the levels of the company.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Amit Daryanani of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Perfect.
Thanks.
I have a question and a follow-up as well.
So I guess maybe to start up on FCI question Adam when you guys announced the deal you also talked about low to mid-teens operating margins of FCI I think the guidance implies 9% or so operating margins so just maybe explain what’s the delta there if there is mark to market accounting or something else that’s driving it lower? Yes.
I think what Craig mentioned is that it’s low double-digit operating margins in the company.
As you know when you make an acquisition there are various things you have to do with amortization and other aspects that are related to acquisitions.
But we think that that’s a low double-digit operating income company today.
Got it.
And then just broadly given the market volatility you are seeing I would love to get your perspective on your desire to execute further deals post FCI.
And really as you look at deals moving forward your leverage is around 1.7 times I think right now is there an appetite to do $1 billion plus kind of transactions as they come up or would like to do more to tuck-in deals as you go forward? Yes.
I think we have always said and we remain very committed to the fact that we want to stay as an investment grade company.
In particular when markets are turbulent like they are today I think the investment grade rating is a very important thing.
That being said we still have a lot of capacity.
And I think Craig talked about that that we have still significant capacity remaining even where we were to get to investment grade.
The reality is our position as an acquirer of preference for companies around the world that has not changed and that continues to grow and we have an excellent pipeline of acquisitions.
Are we going to make another FCI tomorrow I guess probably not.
But do we have a great pipeline of acquisitions a variety of sizes and are we committed to continuing to drive our acquisition program which has created so much value for the company no doubt about it we are still very committed to that program.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mike Wood of Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Hi excellent job navigating this very tough market.
First question just wanted to get some help on the guidance bridge it looks like the currency that you had guided to roughly offsets the FCI accretion so I am just curious with flat organic growth if you could just maybe point to one or two things that’s driving the majority that roughly $0.15 earnings bridge to your midpoint.
And I am wondering embedded in that if there is some prior acquisition margin ramps like from advanced sensors or something? Yes.
I think Mike it’s not quite clear what you are asking but it appears that what you are asking is did we have here a slightly higher conversion margin on our organic sales.
And if that’s what you are asking there is maybe a slightly higher conversion margin on that.
We have an environment right now that we think there can be some slight positive impact from some of the commodity benefits that we had.
And we started to see Craig mentioned that we saw a little bit of benefit in the quarter in our cable business.
And you can bet that our team is being very aggressive on that.
But overall we think that is still a guidance that is well in line with the profitability trends of the company.
Okay great.
That’s exactly what I wanted to understand.
And then just Adam from your perspective managing the business is there any – in terms of how you manage day-to-day given this market volatility what do you do proactively do you react to market movements to try to cut costs in front of potential contagion risk or are you just sort of looking at how trends are coming in and running it as a normal course of business? So I am going to be a little flip in a second which is to say that we spent two decades building a culture of a company that has then the inherent agility at the Street management level to react to changes.
That’s number one thing we do.
That’s not something you can do overnight.
It’s something we have spent the better part of two decades kind of incubating and developing in the culture of the company.
And I think I have mentioned many times in the past for those especially who followed us through many cycles that in a time of turbulence this is really when the Amphenol management team excels the most because we have around the world 90 plus general managers.
Those general managers are facing customers every day as they are going back from the customers with the information that they have gathered and they are going into the factory to allocate and arrange their resources.
And you can bet in certain times that they are hearing from customers not positive news and when they are hearing not positive news they don’t report to someone who reports to someone who reports to someone at headquarters and then we make sort of a big decision about what to do they go back to their factory that say hey I don’t see the orders I better adjust my resources and that can mean cutting cost with people that can mean cutting spending that can mean redeploying towards growth opportunities whatever it is.
That’s the essence of the agility that is embodied and really across this entire organization.
So in a time like this where everybody wants to sort of buckle their seatbelts because it doesn’t feel like a very smooth flight this is when the Amphenol team buys new pairs of shoes gets out there makes sure that they are getting real-time information from customers goes back make some real-time cost adjustments real-time resource reallocations to make sure that we preserve strong operating performance and we expand our market position.
That’s the playbook that we have had through many cycles.
God forbid if we go into a cycle like that we are going to have that same playbook.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Sherri Scribner of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks.
I wanted to ask a quick question Craig on the assumptions for SG&amp;A as we move into fiscal ‘16.
How should we model SG&amp;A with the FCI acquisition trying to understand what hits SG&amp;A and what hits the gross margin line for FCI? Sure.
No problem.
Yes in regards to SG&amp;A as you know the company Amphenol continues to tightly manage SG&amp;A to maximize return on certainly this very important customer-facing resource of the company we have always deployed a very strong return on investment policy with both our sales and engineering efforts.
With the inclusion of FCI which currently carries a higher level of SG&amp;A we expect to see an increase in our SG&amp;A for 2016 with our overall SG&amp;A percent probably increasing about 80 to 90 basis points I would think probably you can include.
And then if you want to think about on the gross margin side I would just add that although FCI does have slightly lower margins I wouldn’t think that that’s going to have such an impact on the company overall.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then Adam I wanted to ask you a big picture question.
You mentioned a number of times that there is a lot of uncertainty in the market.
It seems like the industrial segment has gotten a little bit weaker.
There is a lot of concern about China.
Could you maybe talk about what you are seeing maybe specifically in China and then also what you are seeing on the industrial side? I know you provided some detail but it was a little bit masked by the growth related to FCI.
Thanks.
Sure.
I mean I think what we saw in the fourth quarter relative to industrial was actually a pretty positive result compared to what we had thought coming into the quarter.
You remember Sherri very well as we came into the quarter we saw some signs of a pullback from customers in the industrial market.
And it seemed to be really very much related to this turbulence in the many emerging markets.
I think I gave a lot of credit to our organization and by the way some of that organization in China that we have worked to identify where there are segments of growth in industrial.
So I mentioned maybe a new piece of business that we haven’t talked about before as part of industrial and that’s this whole universe of hybrid transportation equipment.
As an example our team just did a phenomenal job over the last year or two to ferret out this whole new area that is there that is really harsh environment hybrid performance going into things like buses and trucks.
And as you probably know China is an area where that is happening more than any place in the world.
And so the reality is actually our business in China in the fourth quarter did pretty well because we had really ferreted out some of these new things.
I mean you think we grew in industrial year-over-year 10% in local currencies in the quarter and that’s with oil and gas being down by a very very significant amount.
As we look at the guidance going into the year I think we continue to have a favorable outlook for the industrial market.
Organically we expect it to be kind of mid single-digit growth for the year.
And I think that that’s a very robust outlook actually given all what one reads in the paper everyday which seems to be not a great time to be reading paper these last few days.
So I think that – and that’s coming again from our organization really poking their necks everywhere they can and ferreting out growth opportunities and then executing really fast to capitalize on those and to redeploy the resources towards those growth opportunities.
Thank you.
And the next question is from the line of Craig Hettenbach of Morgan Stanley.
You may now ask your question.
Yes thanks.
Adam you highlighted just the strength of the combined company with FCI and IT.
Any other end markets you trust in terms of where you will have more of a critical mass or strategic place? And then also from a geographic perspective kind of what FCI does for you? Sure.
Thank you very much Craig.
I definitely hired an IT.
I think I also mentioned in mobile infrastructure where we have just a tremendous span of presence.
And then industrial I talked about the fact that what we get with FCI is something that we have really never had and we have in all honesty struggled to build organically which is a real pervasive presence across embedded computing on a broad sense.
And the embedded computing revolution that’s happening in the industrial market whether that be in places like factory automation in energy management in heavy equipment wherever I mean you can go up and down the list of industrial applications where they are putting more sensors and there is more processing power and thus there is more embedded computing.
And it is that sort of excellent job that the FCI team has done to repurpose essentially very robust computer interconnect products some of which are not so new but repurposing them into those embedded computing applications where the reliability of the product becomes such a premium.
So I think those we see all really really real strengthening of our position.
Relative to geographic I think that FCI as we have talked about in the past they have a significant position in Asia but they also have a very strong position in the North American and European distribution channels.
And I view that the strength in the distribution channel is really one and the same with the geographical strength that it brings because it allows us access with those types of products that we haven’t had in the past.
So I think that there is really strength both from market and a regional perspective.
Got it.
And then just as my follow-up in mobile devices you guys have done a good job growing that business as we see smartphones start to slow and you guys have also kind of navigated and your end market mix has shifted overtime with new opportunities.
So just curious as that market slows do you think you can still drive new opportunities or content or will you see better growth opportunities in other end markets as you go forward? Well look I think I have just said relative to our guidance that we do expect that market to be down moderately coming into 2016.
It’s a very volatile space.
It’s one where we came in to 2015 with relatively muted expectations.
Ultimately our team was able really to outperform in that space growing for the full year essentially by 13% which was certainly not what we had expected coming into the year.
But it is a very hard market to kind of put a line in the sand on and say that’s – we do anticipate to grow.
So we are taking what I believe is the prudent but a necessarily prudent approach to our outlook for the market.
That being said I tell you that we continue to grow our position.
And we grow our position with a range of customers.
Obviously it’s not like there is millions of customers out there.
So there is some concentration in the customer base but we continue to diversify.
We continue to attract new applications.
If you look at where the growth came this year it wasn’t necessarily for example from something like tablets which several years ago had driven a lot of our growth.
We saw more growth coming out of new-generation interconnected laptops which years ago we didn’t work in laptops.
And now we seem to have built a very significant business there as laptops become essentially mobile devices.
So what will it ultimately be? What will the kind of new architecture of mobile be? This is very hard for us to predict.
Will we continue to have a very strong position and will we capitalize on every opportunity that we see? No doubt about it.
And I think nobody executes like the Amphenol team in the mobile devices market.
Thank you.
And the next question is from Wamsi Mohan of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Adam can you comment on the auto end market it’s been very strong growth for your organically how are you viewing production versus content growth and any regional color that you might share would also be helpful here in 2016 and I have a follow-up? Great.
Thank you very much Wamsi.
I think I have already shied away from talking too much about content versus unit volume.
To be honest we don’t pay for all these reports.
I couldn’t even tell you exactly what content growth is and what unit volume growth is.
I think I read the same papers but I know there is lots of other detailed studies that we don’t pay for.
What I can tell you is our growth is clearly above the market.
When we look at our performance here in the year of 2015 whether that was in the fourth quarter or whether that was the full year growing 12% organically for the year growing 33% in local currencies there is no question this is a very strong report.
And as we look into 2016 I think we continue to have a strong guidance with real mid to high single-digit organic growth and a very positive outlook there.
So where does that come from it’s clearly not just coming from units.
I think that’s very clear.
So it’s coming from our penetration to new applications what I would say is a broadening range of new applications and also a broadened base of customers.
I mentioned during my prepared remarks that we have made a lot of excellent acquisitions.
And one of the great things that we have got through our acquisition program in automotive beyond just the product capability is access to OEMs and vehicle manufacturers where traditionally we may not have had that open door.
And I think that that has been a real great asset in particular as we now have a product offering ranging from interconnect to sensors and even to antennas in the automotive market.
From a regional perspective I would just tell you that in the quarter we actually saw on a year-over-year basis not bad performance in a place like Asia.
Actually sequentially even we grew in Asia by double digits and I think the difference between our original expectations in the automotive market and ultimately the results that we were able to get was in part due to a great job that our team did in Asia to drive sales.
Thanks Adam.
Thanks for the color.
For my follow-up on mobile devices did you see incremental deterioration on demand as you went through the course of the quarter and your guidance was slightly down year-on-year for the full year is that a function of just market declines or is there any share changes options within that and do you have any production related accessories sales that you expect in 2016? Thanks.
Yes.
So the answer – let me answer it in reverse order.
We do continue to have some production related accessories sales in 2016.
I think that over the course of the fourth quarter you naturally see a declining rate of sales during the quarter because the beginning of the quarter tends to be stronger sales than towards the end of the quarter.
So I think that we would have expected that and we did see that.
I mentioned that our sales in the quarter were a little stronger than we had come into but still over the course from October through to December certainly you saw lower sales in December than you saw in October.
And with respect to our guidance for the full year we do not anticipate any share loss across.
But on the other hand we don’t win everything.
So there is always new programs there is always new positions that you have on new products but there is no share loss that we would note or that we have noted across any of our business in mobile.
It is just a volatile space where each new thing comes out you fight for as much content as you can get.
And then you see how many the customers are going to sell of it.
And then you react accordingly and you get your resources in the right position to support that demand.
Thank you.
The next question is from Steven Fox of Cross Research.
You may now ask your question.
Thanks very much.
Good afternoon.
I was just curious Adam if we could – if you could talk a little bit higher level about the markets.
You are calling for about flat organic growth for the full year my understanding of the company is historically you do better than the markets which seems implied more of your markets going down and up I was curious which markets you are most concerned about under that premise and which ones do you think have some organic growth prospects besides your own ability to grow above the market that you can take advantage which ones are more positive? And then I had a follow-up.
Thank you very much Steve.
I think I would – I think I went over most of that in the prepared remarks but I would just say that we have probably a more positive view of military of commercial air industrial and automotive and we have a less positive view of mobile devices broadband wireless infrastructure and IT datacom.
I think that in a nutshell how we see the markets.
I think those latter four markets we would expect to be essentially flattish organically at a market level.
Obviously we have a big impact on wireless infrastructure and IT datacom with FCI.
So we will report certainly strong sales growth in those markets.
But our organic expectations are more muted in that space.
On the contrary we feel very good about automotive about industrial aerospace.
And as I mentioned very early on we start to see some renewed signs green shoots if you will of growth in the military market.
Great.
And then if I could just follow-up real quickly on the FCI deal my understanding is that a lot of the value obviously not all of the value was with the technology that you mentioned in the data center and datacom area can you just sort of talk about how that may be either accelerate your growth or how you take advantage of those products as part of Amphenol a little bit more you have alluded to it a few times but if there is any examples you can give that would be great? Sure.
No look I think number one I would just modify it slightly which is we see a lot of benefit of the product and the technologies from FCI in the IT datacom but we also see that in mobile infrastructure and we see that absolutely in the industrial space where we also have very complementary and additive high-technology products.
But with respect to IT datacom we have talked for several quarters about the real transformation that’s happening in that space where you have a kind of generational shift whereby the balance of power is moving towards these service providers be they are web service providers data center service providers or whatever you want to call them.
And many of those are really kind of calling the technology shots today whereas before they were just unpacking boxes of stuff and configuring it.
And I think in such an environment the ability to present to those customers are kind of an A to Z product offering that helps them reach their price performance requirements is more critical than ever before.
It used to be that you could have a couple of pillar products you could work with the couple of box builders and you could know that that product was what the box builder needed.
Today the range of customers that you have to work with and interface with is so much broader that if you don’t have a product offering that fills essentially every hole whether that be in high-speed connectors whether that be in power connectors in I/Os in cable assemblies you run the real risk of missing out on the one that ultimately will grow.
And I think with FCI we eliminate that risk wholeheartedly.
We get a total A to Z offering.
We can walk into customers of any nature and say you tell us what you need and we have it somewhere on that ultimate price performance curve that the products all fall on.
And I think that that is something that will over the long-term pay great dividends for the company.
Obviously here I am talking about an IT datacom market in 2016 where we had a more modest expectation.
But I think that is something that is commensurate with the market environment that we are in.
It is a very uncertain environment.
IT spending also it’s a capital item and I think that at the end of the day capital spending tends to be a bit more constrained when the markets are crazy like they are today.
Ultimately though data is flowing at speeds unlike we have ever imagined applications are growing logarithmically and people need to equip their data centers and their networks with the equipment ultimately that can handle those speeds.
And we are going to have the best solution for it.
Thank you.
The next question is from Shawn Harrison of Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon Adam.
Hello Shawn.
Wanted to just get into I guess the mobile networks business it sounds like you have a dour outlook again for the market and I am wondering if there is any signs of life out there because it’s been probably about 18 months since we have seen I think any positive growth and all regions were down in 2015 and so if can you just maybe comment on what you are seeing globally in that market and if there is the potential for it to rebound at any point in time in the year? Sure.
I mean look dour and dour I think we have an outlook essentially for the market organically to be at about the level that is it this year.
So that’s certainly less dour than it was in 2015 when we were down 13% in local currencies.
I think 2014 we were up by a significant amount.
If I recall 23% 24% increase.
So I don’t know about six quarters even if maybe the first half of 2014 was a little stronger than the second half.
I think in the fourth quarter essentially our sales were flat to the third quarter and that is in a quarter where normally you would be down sequentially.
So if you talk about signs of life I think one could interpret that flat performance in the fourth quarter where normally you see that to be down is maybe not the worst sign that one ever sees.
I think that ultimately they will – there is developing like there was last time a pent-up demand for capacity and coverage that needs to be one day solved.
And to solve that pent-up demand it will take equipment it will take antennas it will take the interconnect products that we have and it will be upon us who has really the broadest range of products at least in our industry to support both the OEMs and the operators.
In fact last quarter I think I mentioned we actually saw growth from the OEMs on a year-over-year basis and that was the first quarter in I would say three or four that we saw OEM growth in wireless infrastructure.
It is normal in the fourth quarter to see the operators down a little bit.
From a regional basis I would tell you that we have seen actually pretty good performance in North America in the wireless infrastructure market at least in the recent quarter.
And we have started to see actually in Asia some pretty solid signs here in particular in place like India.
India is going through quite a significant infrastructure build.
We seem to be at the early stages of that.
And our team has done an excellent job to position ourselves.
I am never going to bet on India in terms of a market but I will tell you that we are very strongly positioned in India and to the extent that they do ultimately build that the levels that they have that can be also another sign of life for mobile networks.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up just I think the free cash flow dynamics of Amphenol are well understood but what is the free cash flow profile of FCI like is it very similar to Amphenol? So we expect similar free cash flow return of the FCI business for fiscal ‘16 as Amphenol generates? Yes.
I would say that it’s actually very similar to Amphenol.
So that’s I think a good way to think about it.
Thank you.
The next question is from Will Stein of SunTrust.
Your line is now open.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question.
Adam I am wondering if you can give us an update on your sensor product category traction with clients and remind us is the end market exposure there tilted somewhat towards automotive or industrial? And any update on that category would be helpful.
Yes I think we feel very pleased.
We just finished two years as a sensor company.
In fact we acquired the GE advanced sensor business.
I think it was December 5 2013.
So it really just finished our two years.
And I can tell you that we feel really good about the progress and we added obviously Casco a year later and that is – I can just say that that’s a very positive impression both with our customers as well as internally.
There has been a lot of collaborative initiatives between engineers across the company.
We have seen some nice wins with customers where maybe they would not have had access and we have also seen great reception from some customers where we didn’t have a strong access before with our interconnect products.
So I tell you from my perspective I give it a real strong grade a solid A let me say in terms of our experience.
In terms of the end market exposure advanced sensors when we bought it was about two-thirds industrial one-third automotive and then Casco was essentially all automotive.
So I would say that our business is roughly balanced between automotive and industrial.
And within industrial again there is a diversification ranging from heavy equipment to medical to automated building products and things like that.
So there is a great diversification in that.
And within the automotive there is a very strong geographical diversification and OEM diversification as well as the types of sensors pressure and temperature and otherwise the types of sensors that we are selling into those applications.
So we feel great about the deals.
We feel great about the progress so far.
And we continue to actively look for new ways to expand both organically and through acquisition.
If I can just follow-up with one more we have talked a bit – you have talked a bit today about what sounds like a bit more of a uniqueness or strategic benefit of FCI and that’s in the embedded end market.
Is that – am I summarizing that correctly? Are there other end markets where there is a more unique advantage that FCI builds out for Amphenol? It was my impression that the company’s exposure to distribution might be part of that.
Yes.
I mean distribution we have talked about from day one with FCI that it is a great asset for us.
40% of their sales are through distribution.
And I think I have mentioned before but I will reiterate that the strength that we see is not that we are not exposed to those distributors we certainly are and we are bigger than they are those distributors but they are exposed to the part of those distributors that markets into areas that we have not been successful.
So we have been very strong with our harsh environment military aerospace and industrial products and they have been much stronger in identifying and working with distributors on new IT datacom embedded computing and all of those areas where we just have not had the traction because we didn’t have the shelf space of the products.
And so I think that is a big advantage.
Industrial is one which I have already spoken extensively about today.
I think that in the IT datacom market FCI did an outstanding job.
And I would say in part because they have just a phenomenal reach into places like Taiwan and China.
They did a fabulous job attacking the new generation of ODM and new generation of IT datacom new customers the nontraditional let me say.
And while our team has done also an excellent job there FCI was even a few steps ahead of us in that respect.
And so I think that’s another real additive thing that we get with FCI.
The other thing that we get with FCI irrespective of the market position is capabilities that are truly second to none in certain respects plating technology manufacturing in certain areas low cost areas of products that we don’t make in those areas.
So there is a whole range also of capabilities that we are very excited about.
And I can tell you our respective teams are spending a lot of time together right now to identify kind of the low hanging fruit around where the collaboration can create value for the company.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jim Suva of Citi.
Your line is now open.
Thank you and congratulations to you and your team there at Amphenol.
I have a question and a follow-up and I will ask them at the same time.
The question is I think I heard you Adam talk about mobility of being down 30% which if my numbers are right it look like that’s pretty normal.
So if you can just confirm that? But the real question is then I think I heard you say you expect it to be down slightly for this year.
And I kind of scratch my head because the smartphone market is expected to grow.
So are you kind of deemphasizing some things or is your exposure causing you to do that just because it’s really not like the industry is expecting the handset industry to be down.
I mean there is some other part of the business I am missing.
And then the follow-up question is on the industrial side it seems like we saw some strength and if I heard right correctly the hybrid bus and truck did well.
Is that sustainable or is that more driven by some credits or some type of programs that came up and went away or just kind of wondering because it’s kind of surprising and encouraging to hear about strength in industrial? Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you Jim.
These are three very good questions.
With respect to mobility I think you did the right calculation 30% down.
And as I said that’s similar to what we saw in prior year and I think even for the last three years almost.
And I think I already addressed our outlook for the year.
I will just summarize maybe which is that yes we do see that our sales will be down slightly for the year.
We take a very prudent approach to this market.
It’s a market that’s extremely hard to predict and one that’s volatile.
We came into 2015 also with a very muted expectation.
And ultimately we did a lot better.
But that was not something that you can see coming into the year.
What are the expectations for smartphone growth? What are the expectations for tablets for laptops for all the accessories that are there? I don’t know.
If you add them all up together does that reflect the market that is growing or not growing? I think you can read five reports and get five different answers right now.
So what we do is we guide based on what we are seeing.
But as I said earlier we are not expecting and nor do we anticipate any losses per se.
And I think I addressed that already.
With respect to industrial I mentioned this kind of new and exciting area of hybrid heavy trucks and buses and is that related to credit I don’t know necessarily that that’s related to credits.
I think it’s related to really dirty air.
And so I think that there is a lot of places in the world who are coming to terms with the fact that their air is not breathable and they are doing things about it.
And I don’t know that that is necessarily a short-term trend.
I think that is a trend that is probably at the beginning stages of such a trend.
Will that always be a driver of growth over time we will see.
But I think our team has done a great job to position themselves and position ourselves in a new and exciting area and what is otherwise an industrial market that certainly sees its ups and downs.
Thank you.
Our final question came from the line of Mark Delaney of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
Good afternoon and thanks very much for taking the questions.
First question was on FCI of the $570 million forecast for this year can you help us understand the split between your different end markets so is it a quarter industrial and 50% IT datacom etcetera? Yes.
We are not going to dive too deeply into the real specific splits of FCI but let’s just say in order I would say it’s IT datacom industrial mobile infrastructure and then automotive and a little bit of mobile devices kind of in that order.
Okay.
And then for a follow-up question also on FCI I mean I know traditionally Amphenol runs the companies that it acquires independently unless its franchises I mean just given the size of FCI and you talked about a plan to improve the margins are you expecting to do anything there differently in terms of integrating some of the manufacturing where some of the Amphenol products are built in former FCI factories etcetera? Yes.
No we are not integrating it per se.
We are not restructuring closing consolidating facilities.
The one thing we are doing is that we have running FCI as of the time it’s joined Amphenol an individual who has been with Amphenol for a long time.
He was actually the individual who shepherded us – shepherded the TCS company into Amphenol 10 years before.
He has been with the company – with TCS for more than 27 years been with Amphenol for more than a decade and he knows exactly what it takes to bring a large enterprise into Amphenol and to really go through the cultural transformation that is something that takes time but takes also great focus.
The prior executive running FCI who is also a fabulous individual as part of a private equity sale that was natural that he would be moving on and we were very happy that the whole current management team who now reports to the gentleman who is running that as part of Amphenol.
They are very strong robust and excited to be part of the team.
And they are doing that under the leadership of someone who has gone through this exact same transformation in a very very successful fashion in years past.
So otherwise we are not mushing things together.
We are not going through radical transformations.
But we are doing the things that are necessary from an operating standpoint as Craig alluded to to get the margins up.
And long-term in Amphenol it’s not like we have sacred cows and we say nothing can go we are going to be very thoughtful about that.
But at the end of the day we feel that that is an enterprise that is going to be a high performance enterprise going forward.
Very good.
I think that is our final question.
So on behalf of Craig and I we again wish you all happy New Year.
Hope that everybody enjoys the current market environment and we certainly look forward to talking to you all again here in 90 days and best wishes for a strong start to the New Year.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you for attending today’s conference and have a nice day.
A replay of this call will be available for 30 days.
You may access the replay by calling 888-568-0452 or 402-998-1512 passcode is 7183.