Good morning and welcome to the Macy's Inc.
First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning I'm Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
We feel great about our performance in the first quarter.
Our sales growth continued strong producing a 5.4% comp store sales increase on top of last year's 5.5% increase.
As we have said repeatedly the momentum from our restructuring and the implementation of My Macy's is building and bodes very well for our future.
And the profitability of the business increased dramatically in the quarter with earnings per share more than tripling.
We reported a earnings per share on a diluted basis of $0.30 versus last year's $0.09 when we exclude the expense related to the early extinguishment of debt.
And with the continued confidence in our operating results and our balance sheet now in a stronger position we've doubled the size of our annual dividend from $0.20 a share to $0.40.
This is an important step in returning more value directly to our shareholders.
Let's first talk a bit about the quarter and then I will discuss the outlook for the remainder of the year.
Sales in the first quarter were $5 889 000 000 up 5.7% over last year.
While ahead of our expectations across the country our Southern regions the Southeast the Southwest and South Central did best given the more favorable weather in that part of the country and the Upper Midwest also had a strong quarter.
This should bode well for the second quarter sales in the North as the weather warms up.
Bloomingdale's had another terrific quarter and continues to do very well versus their peer group.
Sales on the Internet were also very strong in the quarter with a 38% increase.
We are very happy with how our army omnichannel strategy is evolving at both Macy’s and Bloomingdale's.
We believe both the stores and the Internet sales are benefiting from these efforts and investments.
In the first quarter sales of jewelry and watches cosmetics Men's and home were very strong as were our private and exclusive brands led by I.N.C.
The weaker businesses included Women's traditional and casual apparel Women's suits and intimate apparel.
In the quarter average unit retail was up approximately 1%.
Our inventory continues to be in great shape both in terms of quantity and quality.
At the end of April comp store inventory was up 2.8% well below our expectation for comp sales in the second quarter.
And even though we are controlling our inventory we are making investments in new businesses like outdoor furniture expanding successful businesses such as Impulse Beauty and designer fashion watches as well as funding incremental merchandise receipts to support the fast-growing businesses.
Gross margin in the quarter was 39.1%.
While still 30 basis points below last year it is better than we had expected.
As you recall the key reason for the decline versus last year relates to the growth of Search and Send and overall free shipping on macys.com.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $1 973 000 000 or 33.5% of sales which is down 1% in dollars and 230 basis points as a rate versus last year.
This is much better than we had expected.
Part of this favorability does relate to timing and therefore will come back in future quarters but most of the good news is permanent.
The biggest upside surprise came from credit.
The profitability of our Credit business improved by $25 million versus last year in the quarter which was significantly better than we had expected.
The portfolio experienced a big improvement in bad debt.
And in addition the penetration of our proprietary credit card was 46.7% which is flat with last year and better than we had expected.
Also in the quarter stock-based compensation expense was lower than expected and was $16 million this year versus $29 million last year.
Depreciation and amortization was $19 million below last year as expected and we benefited in the quarter from the $12 million gain from the sale of our shares in The Knot.
Operating income in the quarter was $330 million $127 million or 63% higher than last year and 200 basis points higher as a percent of sales.
Interest expense was $116 million in the quarter which is $19 million below last year excluding the cost associated with the debt repurchase.
This is obviously due to our reduction in debt over the last year.
Tax expense was $83 million bringing net income to $131 million in the quarter compared to $23 million last year.
Average diluted share count in the quarter was 430 million shares and as I said earlier earnings per share was $0.30 in the quarter as compared to $0.05 per share last year or $0.09 per share excluding the expense associated with the early retirement of debt.
Cash flow was also very strong in the quarter.
Cash provided by operating activities was $67 million versus the use last year of $149 million.
Net cash used by investing activities was a $64 million $20 million higher than last year due to the increase in our capital expenditure budget this year.
So cash provided by operating activities net of investing activities was $196 million higher than last year.
During the quarter we've paid down $335 million of debt at maturity and contributed $225 million to the pension plan.
We believe this puts our balance sheet in very good shape such that we are able to begin returning cash to the shareholders while still working toward our objective of becoming investment grade at Moody's and at S&amp;P.
Given this crossroad we thought it would be the right time to discuss the key credit metrics that we are now tracking and our targets for these metrics.
As you know S&amp;P Moody's and Fitch calculate credit ratios using different definitions.
And we've attempted to combine the best of all three in setting our own definitions.
The details of these calculations are all on our website under Financial Information.
But essentially we're using reported debt EBITDA and interest expense and making adjustments for leases and for any underfunding of our post-retirement plans.
So we are tracking two key ratios: one leverage for the adjusted debt to EBITDA; and the other coverage adjusted EBITDA to interest.
So for 2010 our adjusted debt to EBITDA ratio was 3.0.
And on a rolling 4-quarters basis through the first quarter of 2011 this ratio improved to 2.8.
Our current target for this ratio is 2.4:2.7.
For 2010 our adjusted EBITDA to interest was 5.6.
And on a rolling 4-quarters basis through the first quarter of 2011 this ratio improved to 6.0.
Our current target is 6.4:6.6.
We expect to achieve or come very close to achieving these targets by the end of 2011.
We believe that these targets are consistent with what would be necessary to achieve investment grade although as you know there are many other quantitative as well as qualitative factors that go into the rating decisions.
The first quarter was a great one and we are so pleased that the momentum continues to build.
Our organization is completely focused on keeping the sales growth trend going.
We are all focusing on better serving our customers both in-store and online with great locally tailored assortments terrific value and MAGIC Selling.
As you saw in the press release we increased our guidance for comp store sales growth for the remainder of the year to approximately 4% which would translate to approximately 4.3% for the full year as compared to our original guidance of 3%.
For the second quarter we are expecting comp store sales growth of around that 4%.
Although I should add that we expect the highest sales growth in the quarter in the month of May the next highest in the month of June and the lowest in July given prior year's performance.
For earnings per share we're guiding to $2.40 to $2.45 or up $0.15 from the original guidance and CapEx is still budgeted at $800 million.
We are off to another strong start this year and we have every expectation it will continue.
There has been a lot of speculation about how the consumer will react to higher gas prices price inflation stagnant housing prices and a myriad of other macroeconomic factors.
No one of course knows how this will all play out but we do feel great about our company's ability to continue to outperform the competition no matter the environment.
We have a tremendous amount of ammunition in place.
And as I have said repeatedly the My Macy's culture and structure combined with the omnichannel strategy are making an enormous difference.
We couldn't be happier with the progress we've made and we are all feeling very positive about the potential in front of us.
And with that I will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
So your sales obviously significantly beat your expectations in the first quarter.
You talked about omnichannel and a lot of other factors but what do you think were the key drivers? I think it's all of the things we've talked about.
It's not one particular factor.
The assortments have been terrific.
The MAGIC Selling is beginning to help the localization of the assortments.
Obviously the Internet had a great quarter.
I really do think it's a combination of all of the strategies we've been working on and they are all working.
You called out the performance of exclusive and private label is that growing faster than your national brands? And then can you also throw in there some of the discussion on the Designer Capsule? Yes.
The private and exclusive brands are growing faster the national brands as they have in the last couple of years.
It's doing very well across the board.
And the capsules are doing well.
Obviously small but what they're doing is generating a lot of excitement and energy around the stores.
Okay.
And then I'll turn in one last question on Bloomingdale's which is twofold.
One I believe at the analyst meeting last year you talked about investing in the Bloomingdale's flagship in the city and I didn’t know if you could elaborate on that.
And secondly can you just talk about the performance of the outlets to date? Yes.
On 59th Street we have invested quite a bit of money over the last couple of years and continue to improve different parts of the store.
We just approved the project for a couple of floors.
I'll let you be surprised when you see it later this year.
But that store has continued to perform well and the investments we're making are paying off quite nicely.
And then the outlets we feel good about.
It's obviously still early.
We've got 4 open 3 more coming this year but we are feeling very good about that strategy.
We'll take our next question from Emily Shanks with Barclays Capital.
I had just a couple of follow-ups around the investment grade goal.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit of an explanation around what the drivers are of that goal and what you think the operational benefits are of obtaining investment grade? You mean you're asking why we want to become investment grade? Correct.
We believe it gives us the appropriate amount of financial flexibility that a company like ours should have.
Obviously it does save us some money in terms of financing costs but the bigger issue is the financial flexibility.
And do you see yourself ever wanting to get to the point where you can issue VP? Well that's obviously the goal.
As you know prior to the economic downturn we had a BBB rating.
That would be desired.
But at this point we're just aiming to get back to the BBB-minus  range.
We'll take our next question from Liz Dunn with FBR Capital Markets.
I guess 2 questions on product and then just one on expense.
Is there -- do you have any examples of sort of early price increases and customer responses to that? And then the second product question is are there opportunities to take some of your learnings with these capsules and exclusives into some of the areas of Women's that are underperforming? We would sure like to do that in terms of your second question.
We are trying to learn and see what we can expand from that in terms of the other parts of the business some more traditional parts.
I'm not sure what the learning will be but we'll certainly try.
And in terms of your first question we have done some limited testing in terms of the price increases.
In most of the areas where we've tested so far the tests have gone okay and have gone well.
I think there may be some resistance in some of the moderate home categories to price increases.
But that's how we plan the business.
But so far I see no surprise.
Great.
And then on expense why was stock compensation down year-over-year? And do you guidance for credit expense for the full year embedded in your SG&amp;A guidance that you could share? The stock compensation expense as you know is non-cash and is dependent on what the stock price does.
So last year in the first quarter the stock performed quite well.
This year it didn’t perform as well.
So it's just strictly one of the things you can't plan.
It depends on what happens with the stock price.
In terms of credit it will do better than what we had expected for the remainder of the year.
But I at this point can't really give guidance.
We're still just watching these trends very closely.
We'll take our next question from Paul Swinand with MorningStar.
Thanks for taking my question.
Sorry I've got a little bit of a cold but my first question is on CapEx.
I know you're holding the $800 million and I know depreciation has been coming down year-over-year.
As things sort of normalize or are stable now do you see that eventually picking up on a square footage basis? And then the second part to that question...
You mean CapEx? Yes.
And then obviously you're investing in technology and the Internet.
Do you see that increasing and the leveraging or how do you see that playing out? At this point we don't expect much of an increase to the $800 million in terms of CapEx.
Obviously we look at it every year and we're constantly evaluating new store growth opportunities.
But at this point the $800 million is the best guidance I can give you.
So that's a good refresh rate ongoing for your existing store base? Correct.
Correct including the investment in technology.
And so yes I do expect that we will be forever investing in technology.
What we're investing in will obviously change year-to-year but that's a very important part of our strategy.
But that should eventually leverage is that fair? Or is...
It should eventually but it's growing so rapidly.
I'm not sure.
Okay.
And then just a quick question on the training.
I know you and I talked about it last quarter.
I know your ongoing training is a program that you're going to invest in.
But comparing to the quarter last year in the first quarter did you have a more one-time lump of training in SG&amp;A last year? I don't think training should be viewed as lumps.
The truth is it takes a long time and multiple refreshers for people to be trained properly.
So I think there's a cumulative build both the more formal training we're giving and also the experience on the floor trying to take that training and make it happen which as you know an important component of what we're doing is coaching.
So I don't think it's in your words lumpy and it's just going to continue to build.
Got it.
Got it thank you for that.
And then just to follow up on that.
If someone were in stores in major metropolitan areas what percentage of the employees are trained that we'd be running into? Is it pretty much everybody? That should be 100%.
100% okay.
All right.
We'll take our next question from Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
You said that proprietary costs held at about 47% of sales and you were encouraged by being flat.
I'm wondering what factors are at play and particularly the loyalty incentives that might be supporting your proprietary card program? Well I think -- I mean there's nothing new other than in 3 markets in terms of the loyalty program so I don't know that that's really what's supporting it.
I think our customers feel that there's value using our card and like having that connection with us.
What we have been concerned about has been the opening of new accounts given all of the legislation coming out of Washington.
And so we remain concerned about that and that's why we're so pleased with flat penetration.
In the last call you gave us a little bit of a hint about the dunnhumby findings.
You said that customers love coupons.
What are some of the learnings that you might be getting out of that and things that we might expect to see from Macy’s? Well I think what we're finding is that as we understand how individual customers shop and what's in their shopping bags we're making better decisions about what to carry in the stores.
So for example if you find that your most loyal customers buy a brand that may in and of itself not be profitable you wouldn't want to exit that brand from the store if it's driving the best customers into the store.
So we're spending a lot of time looking at that.
Similarly we're looking to see what products or brands our best customers like.
And in some cases adding that to more stores knowing it will drive a more loyal customer.
We'll take our next question from Michelle Clark with Morgan Stanley.
You had mentioned in your prepared remarks that some of the SG&amp;A performance in the first quarter was due to timing.
Can you just give us a little bit more color there what amount shifts out and then how does that plateau over the second through fourth quarter? And I know that for the full year you had guided SG&amp;A growth to 2% to 2.5% previously.
Is that still the full year outlook? Yes.
That's a hard question.
Some of it we know to be timing where something was supposed to be spent.
We know it was spent but will happen.
The expense will actually happen in the second quarter.
Others I think many people just say it's timing internally when it may not be.
So I can't really give you a specific number to be helpful then.
Obviously a lot of that I would expect to come back in the second quarter.
And it's hard to give you exact guidance but I think that's probably around the range that I think it will be.
But second half  for the full year? Correct.
Okay.
And then if you pull out the impact on gross margin from Search and Send would your gross margin rate in the first quarter have been up? It was flat.
Okay that's very helpful.
And then any updated learnings on elasticity and ability to raise price points? I think so far we feel as if as we thought about how the customer is going to behave we've mapped it out pretty well.
So in some cases small price increases will work fine in terms of the customers.
In other cases we've been much more careful and reduce units.
And we think that's probably appropriate too.
Okay.
And any update on your unit plans for the full year? It's hard to give you an answer because it's so different by category.
That if I added it together yes units are up but there are some categories where that's not the case.
Okay great.
And then lastly any updates on price optimization by market? Still working.
We have some tests going that are going very well and we're also working on the actual system that we will eventually roll out to the company which will make it easier to do that.
But that will not be rolled out until late next year.
So it's really a 2013 benefit I think that you'll see in terms of the gross margin.
Okay terrific.
That’s very helpful.
We'll take our next question from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about the gross margin cadence as we move forward? Obviously at Search and Send it was flat.
Can we see improvement as we go through? I think originally there was flat guidance on the gross margin? Yes.
Dana I don't know.
It's one of the hardest questions to answer right now.
There's so many good things happening that would lead you to believe the margins should go up.
But given what's happening with cost inflation I just don't think we can commit to it.
So I think flattish for the year is still the right answer.
Got it.
And then on expenses any other things on expenses besides top line driving those expenses lower? And do you still expect 2% to 2.5% growth or does that adjust? Yes.
I mean that's the question Michelle just asked.
It's very hard.
I think that's probably still the right expectation for the year.
Remember as you think about it first off depreciation we had said would be down by about $40 million for the year.
So that increment will go down since we got so much of it in the first quarter.
By the fourth quarter depreciation is planned  about flat with the year ago.
The stock compensation expense we hope becomes not a positive meaning we're hoping the stock price is doing well because that will be factored into the expense increases.
And as you think about things like credit improvement which you think in terms of dollars as the expense base growth after the first quarter as a percentage factor less significant because the base expenses are higher as you go through the year.
Got it.
And on the big initiatives My Macy's MAGIC Selling.
Are you further along in My Macy's and MAGIC Selling and is that what's leading to deflect trifecta of comps doing so well that the initiatives are all taking hold throughout the largest store base as we're moving forward now? Yes.
I mean I think the misunderstanding that a lot of people have is that My Macy's or MAGIC Selling is a one-time event.
It's really an improvement in how we think about the customer and how we think about the business.
It just keeps building in terms of the momentum.
As I have mentioned for example one of our best regions was the Upper Midwest which is one of the original My Macy's areas.
It's their third year.
Just keeps getting better.
We'll take our next question with Todd Duvick with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Quick question for you Karen and first of all thank you for the clarification on the credit metric target that you're looking at.
And so my only question following that is with respect to when you do resume share buybacks either this year or next year I would assume that you're going to be -- how quickly you're going to buy back shares is going to depend on managing to within those ratios is that correct? That's correct.
Okay.
That was my only question.
We'll take our next question from Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Karen just as we try and kind of get our arms around elasticity of demand I'm just wondering on the  AUR of 1% if you maybe could dissect ticket versus units per transactions and maybe shed some light there? The AUR is averaging at retail on a unit.
Okay.
But in terms of -- give us -- right but in terms of trying to help us understand what you're seeing so far in terms of units versus tickets...
Well 1% is what we're seeing in terms of ticket.
I mean that's what the price has gone up on units.
Right.
And so that's what I'm saying terms of what are you seeing – that’s the ticket but what are you seeing in units per transaction? Are units down...
Well you know that -- I mean the total comp was up 5 .4% and AUR was up 1%.
There's more units in transactions happening.
I can't split between the 2.
Okay.
Okay and then traffic in terms of part of -- to get to that...
Well obviously it's either units or transactions.
I mean it's both.
But what I'm saying is the traffic is good.
And as I have said to investors I think the concerns about the price inflation has been overstated and it's clearly something that is making our lives challenging.
And people are spending a lot of time focusing on it.
We've a whole group of pricing analysts trying to understand it.
But we don't -- I'm not as concerned as I think many of you are about that subject.
Okay great.
And then just talking about the categories it does that seem as if there perhaps could be an opportunity on Women's? Give us a sense of the traditional the casual the suits what you're seeing there in terms of the weakness maybe some initiatives.
Or what's in place to perhaps drive an improvement in those significant categories that still seem to be lagging? That's a good question.
Obviously we're working very hard to try to figure out what we can do to improve the businesses.
Typically it relates to needing more newness.
And so we're focusing on that in those categories.
I would say that's probably the biggest area.
It's just making sure that even though it's traditional it doesn't mean it has to be the same as what they've seen in prior years.
Okay.
And then just on the capital allocation front.
I mean we're obviously seeing you doubling the dividend and as you say you seem on track to hit your targets to be consistent with investment grade by year end.
Just marry what the appetite is in terms of dividends buybacks as you say the focus continues to be returning cash to shareholders.
Give us a sense of prioritization.
How should we think about the opportunity and the appetite going forward? Well I don't think we have a set decision on how we're going to continue to give cash back to the shareholder.
Our history would say that we've tended to pay a competitive dividend and then use excess cash for buying back stock.
But we're still reviewing the various options.
We'll take our next question from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Just wanted to clarify a comment that you made on inventory.
I think you had said you're planning inventory units up.
And given some of the cost increase commentary we've heard from the vendors that makes it seem as though inventory would be up quite a bit in the back half.
Can you just maybe talk to us a little bit about how you're thinking about plans there? Yes I mean I think it will be up but I don't it's going to be up more than what we're planning for sales.
I mean we're still working on the details with the plans so I don't want to give a specific guidance there.
But overall we're still trying to improve our turnover.
So I don't think you're going to see a number that would frighten you.
We'll take our next question from Rob Wilson with Tiburon Research.
Karen I guess you didn't tell us whether the metrics for traffic in units per transaction but would you say they were both higher? I don't have those metrics.
So it's not that I didn't tell you we don't track it specifically.
But obviously it's AUR was up 1% and comp was up over 5%.
There's more units being sold and more transactions and traffic presumably.
Okay close enough.
And the Search and Send functionality that anniversary-s fully at the end of Q1? At middle of the second quarter.
Middle of the second quarter.
And finally is there any update on the loyalty program test that you've been undertaking? No.
I would say so far they have been not -- the results have not been compelling enough that we're rolling it out.
We're still watching and seeing.
But so far while we've gotten sales lift not enough to pay for the program.
But we're still tracking along and seeing if over time it builds.
Have you expanded the test any? We have not.
Well it's really in 4 markets now.
And we're testing slightly different things in each of the market.
And finally on depreciation are you keeping the guidance you provided for depreciation last quarter? Yes.
And income tax rate the same? Correct.
37%? For the year.
We'll take our next question from Mike Shrekgast from Longacre.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit on the cost side.
If we go back historically to where Macy's was on SG&amp;A relative to where sales -- where last time sales got up to the levels you're guiding to.
SG&amp;A was about the level where you guys are guiding to now maybe slightly less.
Just wondering when will we -- given the 4% comp guidance when will we see more of an inflection and a leveraging of SG&amp;A you think so that we see it into the EBIT -- we see more fall to the EBITDA line? Well I think you're seeing quite a bit of leveraging.
I'm not sure I understand.
Well I think you're calling for a 4% growth in sales and it sort of backs into an EBITDA number...
No we're not calling for a 4% increase...
Same-store sales? Right.
And it sort of back based on your guidance it backs into an EBITDA number that's only up 3%.
I'm not sure.
I'll have to go back and do that math.
I don't think that's the case but I will check the math and see.
Okay.
Well I guess just the main question is is there a point where we will see more of an inflection in SG&amp;A and perhaps it just comes in more in the second half of this year as a lot of the -- obviously a lot of top line initiatives are really starting to work.
Well there was -- if look at the first quarter which is an actual number usually had lower SG&amp;A on a 5% comp.
So I do think the performance is such that we will see improvement in EBITDA as we go through the year and beyond.
We'll take our next question from Ken Stumphauzer with Sterne Agee.
Just briefly a confirmation you said that you anniversary the Search and Send in the second quarter correct? That's correct.
So in the back half of the year that wouldn't be a drag on gross margins? That wouldn't but the free shipping is.
; And when would you --  the free shipping was implemented around the holidays? The beginning of this year.
Okay.
And then as far as the debt metrics that you were indicating it might hit by year end does that incorporate any prepay of debt beyond that which is maturing this year? Not prepay just what's maturing.
Okay.
And then one last question.
You've talked in the past about small stores outperforming the large stores.
I'm curious to know whether that has persisted? And if so where do you attribute that to? It is continued.
What we're finding is that there are the smaller doors are performing much better than they had historically and much more similarly to bigger stores which is terrific.
And obviously that was the dream of My Macy's with the greater focus on localization and then reduced span of control in the field organization.
And we have been able to make a difference to lots of these small stores.
We'll take our next question from Bob Drbul with Barclays Capital.
I guess a couple of questions the first one is in the aspiration to get back to BBB- will you need to get that designation before you could start resuming your share repurchase? No.
I mean in fact we doubled the dividend that was announced this morning before getting that rating.
Great okay.
And then on the sales trends overall have you seen any change between the sales trends at Macy's versus Bloomingdale's in the out-performance? Well Bloomingdale -- the upper tier of retail is doing better on an absolute basis.
So Bloomingdale's has done better absolute numbers than Macy’s.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Wayne Hood with BMO Capital.
Karen coming back to a couple of topics.
One is as you move those credit metrics down to a level that you think that your rating agencies would likely give you a ratings  upgrade.
I'm just wondering if you're setting yourself up for this disappointment because it was 5 or 6 years ago that Penny also had similar kinds of metrics and was actually performing very well.
And the rating agencies did not take them to investment grade and it was because just kind of a dim view they have for the industry.
So for you you do all the work to get them there and you still don't get investment grade.
Are you setting yourself up given there's a precedent that that didn't happen in the past with another company? I'm not sure I'm setting myself up.
I mean if they don't give us the rating that they don't give us the rating.
As I said to Bob we're not going act differently until we get the rating.
So I still think it makes sense to get the balance sheet to these ratios.
And my hope is and my expectation is that the investment grade rating will come.
If it doesn't I still think it's the right thing for the balance sheet.
Right okay.
I guess second question I had can you discuss the progress that you may or may not made with inventory turnover in the first quarter if you strip out the online business? And what kind of progress do expect for the year now that the sales are growing fairly robustly in the turn number? I would never -- I mean I don't know why you'd strip out the online business.
That's sort of a key part of what we're doing from an inventory turn perspective.
But the comp store inventory which includes the Internet inventory was up 2.8% compared to the comp of 5.4%.
That's pretty impressive.
And as I have said we are investing in the growth businesses.
So you are implying that you did have improvement in turn in the first quarter? Yes.
Yes.
And for the year do you have a basis point expectations of what you think that turn could be? I don't.
If I could earlier we're still working on the full plan.
Okay.
And then my last question comes back to the credit side of the business.
How much of that is just reserve unwinding versus the overall portfolio growing or some combination of both? And there is...
It's a combination of both.
Yes.
Is there -- the guidance you had given that would imply some improvement obviously in the reserve and the performance of the portfolio.
And I think Liz got to this is is how much of the improvement in the SG&amp;A though is really driven by credit in '11? Well for the first quarter you - I mean I gave you the numbers $25 million of the improvement was due to credit.
Some of that we expect to continue to see it.
But at this point we're still watching the trends very closely.
So I can't give you a specific number for the remainder of the year but we do think it will benefit us Yes.
But that I was just thinking that there's some implied number in the guidance you’d given right? There's none.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Stein with Soleil Securities.
Inc.</strong> Karen a question regarding cost of goods.
I'm wondering if vendors are willing to lock in prices as they have in the past or are they trying to kind of shorten the lead time before they give you a commitment on price? I'm not sure I'm an expert on this subject but I have not heard of any change in how we're working with our vendors.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And as far as your strategy for the back half of the year with respect to pricing is the goal to kind of maintain your -- protect your merchandise margins so to speak with higher selling prices? No our goal is to drive sales and keep our customers happy.
And our expectation is that we can do that and also maintain our margin.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And just final question just looking at the store obviously things are going extremely well.
But what are kind of some of your priorities from a merchandising standpoint where you're trying to focus and improve underperforming areas? And also there was a comment in the release this morning that did indicate you're testing a wide range of new ideas and innovations.
I'm wondering if you might give us a couple of examples that you're working on.
Yes.
I mean I would say and it's not because it's an underperforming business but because we see opportunity but we're spending a lot of time focused on the used businesses which we started with Material Girl and Bar III the new private brand we launched and that will continue.
So that's the big area of focus as we go forward.
So again not an underperforming business but one where we see a lot of opportunity for us to grow and keep the comp stores’ growth going as fast as it's been.
In terms of some of the innovations 2 that come to mind we're beginning to use iPads in our stores in different ways and bringing more technology into the stores.
Another would be the Impulse Beauty area which I think probably all of you have now seen.
It's in about 75 locations with another 25-plus going in the remainder of this year.
But we started slowly and tested bringing in smaller lines have really geared to that younger customer and the departments are doing extraordinarily well.
We'll take our next question from David Glick with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I'm just wondering if you could update us on the investments you're making in macys.com and bloomingdales.com in terms of infrastructure investments and hiring? And how you see that ramping up the balance for this year and in 2012? And what kind of impact that's going to have on SG&amp;A growth in the next year and a half? No we haven't actually quantified the expense invested we're making but it's obviously material.
When you've got a business growing at 38% and we're -- expect that trend to continue we're obviously adding quite a bit but I can't give you a specific dollar number David.
And in terms of the capital investments those continue to be made as well.
Inc.</strong> Do you see that having more of an impact on this year or next year in terms of the expense side? My guess is going -- if that business keeps growing as it's growing and as we expect it to I think it's going to continue to have an impact.
And what's interesting is 5 years ago we thought of it as a separate business the Internet.
Today it's getting so intermingled with how we're operating the stores that it's frankly just an investment in the total growth of Macy's Inc.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ms.
Karen Hoguet for any additional or closing remarks.
Well great and thank you all for your interest and support and if you have any additional questions obviously feel free to call us.
And thanks.
Take care.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Macy's Inc.
Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's conference call scheduled to discuss our second quarter earnings and our outlook for the remainder of the year.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made on this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
You haven't been hearing much positive news about the economy so far this week but I think we at Macy's have a very good story to tell about the last 3 months.
And our outlook for the remainder of the year reflects the optimism we feel about the direction of the business as well as realism about the macroeconomic environment.
As you saw we produced a 57% increase in earnings per share in the quarter well ahead of our expectations.
The 2 major factors driving this strong performance are first and foremost profitable sales growth; and secondarily the improvement in our credit performance.
When we started the year we had expected comp store sales growth of 3% for both the first half and the full year of 2011.
Having achieved in excess of a 5% comp store increase in the first half of 2010 and with concerns about the economy we thought 3% would represent good performance.
However we were able to exceed the 3% expectation by a wide margin and produced a comp store sales gain in the first half of the year of 5.9%.
This result also compares very favorably to our peers.
Our strategies are clearly working and we continue to believe that our My Macy’s structure and approach to localizing our offering are giving us a significant competitive advantage.
In addition our omnichannel strategy and MAGIC  Selling program are also helping us to accelerate our sales trends.
In the second quarter we produced sales of $5 939 000 000 or a comp store increase of 6.4%.
All Macy's regions exceeded last year and at least achieved plan in the second quarter.
We are producing our strongest sales trends across the south and in the major tourist areas such as New York City downtown San Francisco Miami Las Vegas Orlando Hawaii and Chicago.
The Bloomingdale's business continues to be very strong as well and compares favorably to our upscale competition.
The Internet with our omnichannel strategy is continuing to produce terrific results with a 40% sales increase in the second quarter.
The interaction between our stores the Internet and mobile devices is making it harder and harder to really distinguish between store sales transactions and Internet sales transactions.
We are reporting the sales where the customers buy but we know that customers are sometimes shopping in the stores and then going home and ordering online while other times the reverse is done.
Having multiple channels and focusing on an integrated strategy for all is really important for driving our sales growth and enhancing customer loyalty.
Our strongest merchandise categories in the second quarter were jewelry; watches; fashion accessories including handbags and hosiery; cosmetics fragrances; men's; and home.
Private brand also had a good quarter led by I.N.C.
We had 2 very successful private brand launches this spring Bar III for the millennial customer; and Greg Norman for Tasso Elba a new exclusive golf line.
We also continued to see strength in exclusive brands such as Tommy Hilfiger and Martha Stewart.
The weak categories of merchandise continue to be within the casual traditional feminine apparel and intimate apparel.
During the second quarter the average unit retail or AUR increased by approximately 4%.
Our customers began to feel the impact of increased prices in the second quarter but it is not until the August-September period when we expect the price increases to be more widely experienced.
It is important to remember though that some of our AUR increases result from factors other than price inflation.
AUR increases occur with mix changes resulting from the healthy sales in our status brands new higher price point initiatives like Impulse and product initiatives that are geared to fashion versus commodity goods.
Also more regular price selling can also result in AUR increases.
Combining all of these factors we are expecting AUR increases in the 5% to 7% range this fall.
Gross margin in the quarter was 41.8% down 10 basis points versus last year due to the stronger Internet sales and the free shipping.
We ended the quarter with comp store inventory up approximately 3% which we feel positions us well for the back half of the year.
SG&amp;A in the second quarter was $1 976 000 000 or 33.3% of sales.
This is up in dollars 1.2% over last year but down 190 basis points as a rate to sales versus a year ago.
This is better than expected due primarily to the continued good news on the strength of our credit portfolio.
In the quarter credit produced approximately $57 million more income than last year.
We had expected improvement but not this much.
As in the first quarter the portfolio experienced the big improvement in delinquencies and losses.
Proprietary penetration or use of our proprietary card was essentially flat during the quarter versus last year at 46.8% which is also better than we expected.
Offsetting this benefit from credit as well as the $20 million reduction in depreciation and amortization was 3 main factors: one an investment in selling expense to drive our sales growth; two investment in our omnichannel strategy including the costs associated with our store-to-door strategy; and three stock-based compensation which increased $18 million over last year in the second quarter.
Operating income in the quarter was $506 million up 37% over last year.
And as a percent of sales operating income was 8.5% up 180 basis points over a year ago.
Interest expense was $111 million down $19 million from last year.
Tax expense was $154 million leaving net income of $241 million.
Average diluted share count was 434.6 million shares and earnings per share was $0.55 per share up 57% over last year's $0.35 per share.
Net cash provided by operations was $587 million up just short of $300 million over a year ago.
As you saw net income was up $202 million explaining much of the variance.
In addition we made $100 million lower pension contribution this year as compared to last year.
These were offset in part by inventory which was $172 million unfavorable to a year ago offset though by $109 million of higher payables.
So the net additional use of cash for inventory was $63 million.
You heard me refer to inventory net of payables.
I did this because we executed a strategy this year to have new merchandise arrive in stores across the country closer to the same day than what happened previously.
This was actually one of the changes we made in response to a My Macy's sales getting opportunity that the new team identified.
The result of this though is a large increase in in-transit inventory at the end of the month as our receipt flow during the course of a month becomes more concentrated in the first week.
In-transit as you know is completely offset in payables so there's no impact on cash flow.
And at the end of the second quarter inventory was up 6.8% but net of merchandise payables it was up 3.5% just slightly above the comp store inventory increase.
The key here though is that factoring out variations and ship dates we will continue to maintain comp store inventory growth at a level lower than comp store sales growth.
Net cash used by investing activities was $222 million in the first half of the year approximately $100 million more than last year due to the planned increase in CapEx which includes purchase of property and equipment as well as capitalized software.
We utilized less cash for financing activities this year largely due to the fact that we repaid $247 million less debt this year.
So we've ended up generating $31 million of cash in the first half of the year as compared to the use last year of $478 million.
And because of our strong performance we were able to achieve the target credit ratios that we laid out for you at the end of the first quarter.
The calculations are detailed on the website.
But as you recall we had set targets for debt to EBITDA of 2.4 to 2.7.
And for the rolling 4 quarters ending in July we've achieved 2.7.
And our adjusted EBITDA to interest is 6.4 for the rolling 4 quarters versus our target of 6.4 to 6.6.
This is earlier than we had anticipated and now opens the door for us to consider the possibility of buying back stock this fall.
However there will not be any significant buyback until after the holiday season which as you know is when we generate significant cash flow.
We remain very focused on keeping our ratios within the target range and being an investment-grade company.
As we look to the fall season we are cognizant of the less-than-ideal economic backdrop as well as the price increases coming in some parts of our business.
Having said that we have great momentum with so many merchandise categories performing well.
And our initial experiences with price increases have proven to be generally consistent with our expectations in terms of unit sales.
We are assuming comp store sales for the fall season of 4% to 4.5% versus our original guidance of 3% and most recent guidance of 4%.
This combined with the spring actual results would result in an annual increase of 4.8% to 5.1%.
We are expecting annual earnings per share of approximately $2.60 to $2.65 for the full year or for the fall season $1.74 to $1.79.
This guidance excludes any benefit of any potential stock repurchased.
But as I stated earlier we would not expect the impact to be significant this fall.
Also as in prior years we could close a few stores at the end of the year and the costs associated with these which would be primarily noncash are also not included in this guidance.
Let me make a few additional comments that I think will relate to the fall guidance to help you as you develop your expectations for us for the back half of the year.
One comp store sales are assumed to grow by about the same percent in each of the third and the fourth quarters.
In the third quarter we are expecting to generate our biggest sales increased during the month of August with lower growth expected in September and then in October.
Two we are expecting our gross margin rate to be down slightly in the fall season particularly in the third quarter.
This is due primarily to the impact of free shipping on the Internet and the growth in that business.
Because we offered free ship during so much of the fourth quarter last year the impact on gross margin this year relative to last year will be less during the fourth quarter.
Three while the increase in the comp store inventory is expected to continue to be below that of our sales growth at the end of October and the end of January the reported inventory will show a bigger increase.
As discussed before this is because of the change in how we're writing our orders regarding the ship date.
We also decided to accelerate some merchandise orders from the first week of November into the last week of October.
We did this to ensure that the stores can absorb the merchandise received.
This shift compounds the in-transit increase and leads to an even larger expected increase in inventory at the end of the third quarter.
And we're still working on the shift and the estimate for inventory at the end of the third quarter.
But at this point we would estimate it that the reported inventory could be up as much as 10% to 12% at that one point in time.
Obviously at the end of January where there won't be any receipt shift the impact would be much less.
Four S to SG&amp;A.
We are assuming a continued improvement in SG&amp;A as a percent of sales in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter as we leverage the sales growth.
SG&amp;A dollars are expected to increase versus last year by a higher percentage in the fall season than experienced in the second quarter and by an even higher percentage in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter.
We are expecting the improved credit income to continue into the fall season.
However this benefit is expected to be offset by many items most of which though relate to driving the comp store sales growth.
For example the ongoing investment in the omnichannel strategy including the store-to-door fulfillment strategy is adding costs.
And we are making an investment in our stores for the holiday period to support our MAGIC selling efforts.
We are also funding resources during that very high traffic time of year to help our stores better recover after big days.
Five we are expecting depreciation and amortization to be approximately $565 million this fall and interest expense to be approximately $215 million.
Six our tax rate is still expected to be 37% for the full year even though it was approximately 39% during the first half of the year.
We are expecting some state tax settlements for audits which will result in a much lower tax rate in the quarter when they occur which at this point we think most likely will be in the third quarter.
And seven and lastly we are still expecting CapEx for the year to be approximately $800 million.
We remain cautious but optimistic about this fall.
We can't ignore all that is going on in the world this week but we also can't ignore the momentum we have nor the confidence we have in our strategies.
We are staying focused on what we can control.
Our team is working hard to maximize the opportunities from our 3 key strategies: one My Macy's; two omnichannel strategy; and three MAGIC Selling.
As we have said before we continue to be in the early innings of the implementation of each of these strategies.
And frankly the more we learn and the more positive results we see from each the more additional benefits we can envision.
At a management meeting last week for our top 60 people or so the mood was as optimistic as I've ever seen it.
And while we are all very pleased with our results we all know just how much more potential we have.
The good news is that our success to date has been balanced between Macy's and Bloomingdale's between the stores and online across all regions of the country and across families of business.
Even with the new discussion about the economy and the headwinds we all face we have a broad range of assets to keep our business moving forward.
And with that I will take whatever questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michelle Clark with Morgan Stanley.
The first question obviously I didn't see it yet in the second quarter reported sales number but obviously there's a lot of nervousness among investors about strength in the high-end consumer given recent sell-off in the market.
Just wondering if you've seen anything at Bloomingdale's in terms of a slowdown in sales trends over the past couple of weeks correlated with the sell-off in the market? I would argue: a we have not; but b I think it's a little bit early to be judging.
But at this point business has continued strongly.
Terrific.
And then I was wondering if you can just discuss what you're seeing in terms of the promotional environment specifically as it relates to Macy's.
I don't think we've seen anything dramatically different than what we've experienced in prior times.
So no pickup in discounting 2Q versus 1Q? I'm not even sure how I would answer that Michelle but there's no difference year-over-year.
Okay great.
And then on the first quarter call you had mentioned that May was off to a good start.
I was wondering if you had any commentary on August.
I know it's early.
Well it is obviously early but as I just said a minute ago vis-à-vis Bloomingdale's we continue to be -- feel good about the business as you can see with our guidance for the fall season.
Our next question comes from Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
My first question was in the prior conference call you said that you're going to be investing in certain inventory areas.
I think one of the things you mentioned was outdoor furniture.
I guess with the good comp in the quarter that implies that some areas accelerated turns can you talk a little bit about what maybe you didn't invest in but that you're able to keep the sales high and turn the goods faster? Well our turn overall is improving as a result of the good sales and the inventory control that we're exhibiting.
So really in most parts of the store turnover has improved.
So are you attributing all of that to My Macy's system and just taking what you have done in merchandising anyway in the soft goods category and being able to get that out faster get better more on target merchandise and turn it faster? Or what's the...
I think it's a combination of our offering meeting customer and demand better and sales being stronger.
Also we have a very strong replenishment group in place that's helping in those areas.
So it's really efforts across the board.
Okay.
And then in the fall and going into the holiday what new areas of inventory will you be investing in a similar way? Well I think we will continue to invest in the areas of the business that are doing so well throughout the center core cosmetics men's home et cetera.
I can't think of any major new categories that are large but we'll continue to fund the businesses that are growing.
And then just real quick with the talk of the inventory system that you just explained do you see that accelerating cash flow in -- over the long term or is it just a net neutral in the next few years? Well inventory turnover obviously does help cash as we can improve it.
The next big opportunity for improving inventory will be better utilizing the inventory we have between our stores and the direct-to-customer warehouses and we haven't even begun to take advantage of the opportunities there.
So I would expect turnover to continue to help our cash flow over the next couple of years.
Our next question comes from Jeff Stein with Ticonderoga Securities.
Karen question on MAGIC Selling.
It sounds to me like you're kind of stepping up the level of activity there and I'm wondering have you in anyway been able to measure the level of conversion or improvement in conversion that you're getting from MAGIC Selling? Well it's hard to measure but it's also obviously the sales growth that we're exhibiting certainly I think is apart attributable to MAGIC Selling.
The other remark or comment I would make is that we as you know are measuring the equivalent of a Net Promoter Score and we are at levels now significantly higher than we were a year ago which is when we began to measure that.
I have to believe a lot of that is attributed to MAGIC Selling as well.
Okay.
So are you investing -- relative to where you started the year are you investing more in that initiative now than you had originally planned? No we aren't.
It's as expected.
Okay.
And the $57 million increase that you saw -- benefit that you saw from credit in SG&amp;A roughly how many basis points improvement did that produce in that ratio? I'm not sure I understand.
As a percent of what? As a percent of total sales.
I don't know  the answer to that Jeff.
I could calculate it but I'll do it later and call you.
Okay.
And final question quickly which categories are you seeing the highest relative price increases or cost increases for the fall? It's really going to be any areas that have a high percentage of cotton.
So it will be a lot of the apparel areas and also home textiles sheets and towels.
Our next question comes from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Karen can you share with us some early findings on price elasticity? Any difference that you're seeing in basic versus fashion or anything else you can call out to help us understand how these trends are going? Well I would say in fashion obviously there's less resistance as you would expect than in commodity areas.
But I think the good news for us is that as we've done some tests and in commodity areas where we reduced the number of units we've been relatively good at predicting that elasticity.
So there are parts of the store where we expect units to be way down versus a year ago but in other fashion areas particularly less the case.
And then are there places particularly in private label where you're hoping to defend some of the opening price points and then perhaps raise on the higher fashion items? Absolutely.
There's not one answer to how we've dealt with the prices increases.
In some cases where we know that customers is very value-oriented we are not testing the cost increase completely or at all to the customer and hoping to make up the margin in other places.
Our next question comes from Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Karen obviously a great first half.
It sounds like very confident as you head into the back half with your own opportunities as you kind of raised your comp outlook to 4.5.
But give us a sense if you step back are there places in the planning that you temper whether it be some orders inventory even margins kind of how we think about it in light of the fact that the world seems to -- at least the market seems to be telling us that we're going to go into a bit more of a challenging back half.
I'm not sure we know that yet Adrianne.
I mean clearly there's market disruption.
But how that affects customer spending I don't think we know yet.
I think the only comment I would make to you is that we are constantly reforecasting the business.
So should we start to see weaker sales we will start to react.
But at this point I think doing the right now might be an overreaction.
Okay because I guess on your gross margin in terms of the guidance appreciate the fact that free shipping would be an impact there.
But I guess previously for the year we have thought about flat for the year...
Well the difference though is not merchandise margins.
The difference is the free shipping.
Okay.
So that changed there.
Had the Internet not been growing as well which by the way are very profitable sales it's just from an accounting perspective the free shipping goes into margin.
But the merchandise margins are still expected to be flat this fall.
Okay that's helpful.
And then talking about categories with women's casual traditional women's you've been calling that out as weak for some time maybe kind of help us think about what actions are being put in place to stabilize improve there talk about maybe the inventory beds and is that through national as well as private label? Well I think I can speak more to the private brand side where we're spending a lot of time looking at the private brands that service that customer particularly Charter Club and have really retooled that line and are actually excited about its prospects.
But don't expect this to make a big impact on this fall.
And I guess I should add as you're all beginning to be so worried perhaps hopefully overly so about what if the fall sales disappoint us? I would say that the good news is is that of the most areas that we have funded in terms of inventory and that have been growing so well are more of the center core areas where the markdown risk is a lot less.
So that should hopefully make you feel a little more comfortable if that margin risk should changes in the sales trend happen.
Okay that's helpful.
And then beyond just in terms of the inventory and the margin on the SG&amp;A front I mean obviously you talked about continuing to invest in omnichannel and -- but help us think about contingencies plans on the expense side.
I said so much of the increase has to do with added selling and added support in the stores that if the sales don't happen we won't add the expense.
So there too if the sales trends change significantly we have time to react.
Our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Karen could you amplify a little bit on the difference in sales between the tourist areas and much of the rest of the country during the second quarter? Would you say that wear was somewhat weaker? I mean they were all up to plan but wear was somewhat weaker or is mainly weather-related? I don't know how -- I'm not sure that there were any major issues with weather in the second quarter.
I'm not quite sure how to answer that.
The business was pretty good across the country.
As I said we did well in all of our regions.
The southern part of the country did particularly well all the way across -- from Florida all the way through to California and Hawaii.
But in addition to that tourist markets did particularly well.
Now with regard to My Macy's particularly in the Midwest and in markets -- I hate to use the word formerly serviced by May Department stores are there kind of particular adjustments that are taking place to address the somewhat less affluent customer than let's say Macy’s would have been catering to and might have adjusted the inventory towards after the acquisition? Well I'm not sure I agree with your distinction between May and Macy’s but it's sort of not relevant anymore.
I think the key thing is with My Macy's store-by-store we're reacting to the customers in that store and in that trading area.
So there are a lot of places where the mix of customers is more moderate than others and that we are responding with putting in that inventory that appeals to that customer.
So I think the short answer to your question is yes we are responding.
That's one of the beauties of My Macy's.
Yes I believe in it.
I appreciate it and I asked the question in that vein.
Anything with regard to gift strategy during the holiday season that's noteworthy? Well there's a lot that's noteworthy but I'm not sure I'd want to tell you given that the competition will find out at the same time.
But we are very excited about our gift strategy building on a lot of things that we hit on last year.
And we feel great about the marketing campaign which in many ways is going to be omnichannel this year as well as the assortments and in-store execution.
It should be a terrific holiday season.
Our next question comes from Bob Drbul with Barclays Capital.
I guess to ask the question a different way when you look at the uncertainties that's out there the unsettling markets what categories are you watching closer today that you weren't really paying that close attention to over the last few weeks or months? We're watching every category more closely today than we were before the last couple of weeks.
There's really not any one in particular that I would point to.
Okay.
And in terms of the credit card income can you give us a perspective on where we are within the credit card business? ROA reserves or writeoffs maybe relative to '07? Just trying to understand sort of the differences today in those levels versus where they were.
Yes I mean we're getting back to historic levels of profitability of that business so it's really quite good right now.
Okay.
And then can you talk a little bit about the Bloomingdale's outlets sort of the unit economics around that and sort of any updated thoughts on the ultimate penetration for that store? No I mean we continue to feel like it's a good opportunity that interestingly we think is building the brand even in the full line stores.
So we feel good about it.
But it is as you know a very different business in the full line stores and so we're learning as we go.
But we will continue to open them.
And how many we ultimately get to I think it's too early to tell you that.
I just don't know.
My last question is on the AURs up 4% are you seeing any shopping habits change around the different prices in terms of a flock to more on the promotional events or anything like that? Not yet.
Our next question comes from Rob Wilson with Tiburon Research.
Inc.</strong> You mentioned that AUR was up 4% in Q2.
Can you give us maybe the primary driver of that in Q2? It's a combination of the factors that I talked about.
Some of it really is mix change.
Some of it is stronger regular price selling.
But also we were beginning to experience some of the price increases that we expect to continue into the fall season.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And why do you suggest that August would you be your strongest month in the quarter Q3? Well we moved our Shop for a Cause event from October into August so that should help.
And we did that to frankly have less events in October and spread it out better.
So that should lead to higher sales in the month of August.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And finally I go back to that regular price sell-through are you expecting higher regular price sell-through in the second half of the year? We don't really plan it that way but it has been through this spring so we would expect that it would continue.
Our next question comes from Kenneth Stumphauzer with Sterne Agee.
I just have a couple of them.
As far as the credit income you indicated it was a $57 million tailwind in the quarter.
Am I correct about that? Yes.
It just seems exceptionally larger than the context of the how much that contributed last year.
I think it was like $322 million for the full year.
Is there anything structurally different that would explain that or is it just that we're in a better part of the cycle at this point? There is nothing structurally different.
So this would suggest that you can get back to kind of like peak 2006 type income levels is that correct? Well you've got to be careful with -- you have to look at a period after we sold the business to Citi.
But yes we will get back to peak profitability.
Okay.
And then as far as the gross margin impacts from e-com [e-commerce] and free shipping can you quantify how much that was in the quarter and what you're expecting to be in next quarter? No we have not broken that out.
But it is the entire reason that the margin in the second quarter was below a year ago.
Okay.
And then just finally as far as comps go looking backwards obviously this quarter and the preceding quarter accelerated from the prior period in the second half of 2010.
Do you think you can attribute any of that increase to the increasing price points or better-than-expected demand elasticity? I don't know.
I got to stop and think about that one.
Clearly in the second quarter the AUR was up more than it had been in the first.
So I think that probably is true.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays Capital.
I just wanted to confirm that you're still expecting to pay down the maturity that you have coming up in September.
And also if you could address your plans for the other maturities you have coming due over the next 12 months? Yes on the maturity in September.
And for the next 12 months we're really going to manage that around our credit ratios.
So some of that debt that matures in 2012 will get paid down.
Others could be refinanced.
Our next question comes from Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Can you update us on where you are with regards to the rollout of your optimization technology and when should we expect the benefits to impact the business? Yes and I'm assuming you're talking about pricing optimization? Yes.
Yes we are just beginning to start testing it and so would not expect a rollout until probably -- a full rollout probably until early '13.
But certainly by this time next year it will have been rolled out to a significant part of the company.
And we are obviously very excited about where we think that will enable us to do.
It should help gross margin rate and also it should help sales.
And then you would refer earlier to being in the early innings with some of your key strategies.
With regards to MAGIC Selling training omnichannel My Macy's can you just update us with regards to what innings you actually are in? Well that's obviously a major judgment call Deb.
On MAGIC Selling we are just scratching the surface and beginning to make an impact.
So it's hard to give you an inning but it's very early.
In terms of omnichannel I would say the same thing.
So we're obviously farthest along with My Macy's but even that is still early in the game.
Okay very helpful.
And then how many stores at this point in the game have Impulse Beauty and have you noticed any difference in the comps in those stores? I don't know the specific number I'm sorry.
I'll have to get back to you on that.
But those stores with the Impulse Beauty are doing better in cosmetics.
I have not checked the total store.
And then you had mentioned on the call about store-to-door.
Can you maybe just provide an update on that initiative? Yes let me go back a step and put that in context.
Around this time a year ago we rolled out something that we call Search and Send which is if you're in a store and we don't have what you want in stock the sales associate can very easily order it for the customers from the online inventory.
During the fourth quarter last year we tested in a couple of stores on the West Coast the ability through the same Search and Send but have inventory pulled not only from the central warehouses supporting the Internet business but also from these 2 store location i.e.
store-to-door.
And we found that by doing that we were more likely to be in-stock when the sales associate searched for an item and therefore satisfy more demand.
And so we've now got that in 23 locations and it will be over 150 locations by this time a year from now.
And we are -- so now throughout the company you're able to go to a Macy's store and have the associate search the inventory invisible to the sales associate but will pull it from stores in addition to the Internet warehouse.
And this is all a part of trying to be able to better satisfy customer demand and also over time make our inventory investment far more productive.
It's really quite exciting.
Our next question comes from Wayne Hood with BMO Capital Markets.
Yes Karen I had a question and it kind of relates to pension plan right now.
Given what's going on with the yield curving credit markets it's -- and things could change daily I know but as you begin to think about like '12 and '13 with them wanting to keep rates low for a sustained period of time and you've got 8.75% expected long term rate of return built into the plan at what point do we begin to think about we need to make adjustments to that given where fixed income rates or the yield curves is going to be and where markets are right now? Well first it's 8%.
But secondly we review it every year and we'll do that again this year.
Well I guess given where the fixed income markets are you would think you would have to review that as opposed to leave it alone? No I don't know that.
Okay.
The second question I had would be can you give us some sense of the percent of merchandise that's tied to free shipping and kind of what your assumptions are for minimum orders for free shipping because a lot of companies last year and this year are using that as competitive edge and just wanted to see where you're thinking you're going to come out on all of that? I'm not sure I understand your first question anything is eligible for the free shipping...
Yes so what percentage of that? Percentage of what? Percentage of sales that's tied to free shipping.
I don't know I'm sorry.
Okay.
Currently if you're in a store and you take advantage of the Search and Send anything over $50 is free shipping.
And online it's $99 for Macy's.
Bloomingdale's is higher.
Okay.
And then my last question I guess back to the credit thing would you anticipate in any way that with the reserve unwinding that you would go deeper into the file to drive traffic or to develop more deeper credit promotions to differentiate yourself given that reserve unwind potential? I wouldn't relate the 2 but we are always looking for opportunities to profitably increase the amount of credit we can offer to our proprietary card users.
So we're doing that on an ongoing basis.
Our next question comes from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about the complexion of how you're thinking about the comp guidance given the 4% increase in AUR that you got in the second quarter? Do you expect it to be similar as you move forward given the price increases that are occurring? And then just lastly as you think about fall and holiday events product focus how will it be different this year than last year? Let me answer the first question which is as we have said we're expecting the AUR to increase 5%  to 7% in the fall consistent -- and in our guidance is the 4% is to 4.5% so obviously you see the delta there in terms of units.
And in terms of areas that we're focusing on in terms of the holiday business I think I'm going to pass on that.
Our next question comes from David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> Just looking at the success of your Internet business I know there are a lot of factors underlying it.
I'm wondering how much of it do you guys attribute to the shift in your advertising budget to more digital versus TV and print and does that give you more confidence in accelerating that shift as we go forward? Well actually I think the digital marketing is doing more to drive the store business.
So actually I see that as helping the store business as much as they do the Internet.
We are making so many improvements on the site week-by-week month-by-month better assortments more consistent with what's happening in the stores which is helping better marketing more personalized offers out of the website.
But I do think we're going to continue to see outsize growth there.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Karen could you give us any guidance as to annualized projection for online sales this year? No.
Sorry I mean -- no.
A I don't have the number; and b we don't break it out.
It's obviously contained within the comp of the 4% to 4.5%.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Hoguet I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Really just thank you all for your support.
And if you have more questions feel free to call us and we'll try to be helpful.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Macy's Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Miss Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Okay thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's Call scheduled to discuss our third quarter earnings and some of our key assumptions for the fourth quarter.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Let me start by first apologizing for the confusion this morning over the brackets that mysteriously appeared on our cash flow statement.
Business Wire is responsible for the problem and frankly still haven't figured out quite how it happened but note that a corrected release is now posted on the Wire.
On any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
And keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
We are very pleased with our performance in the third quarter.
We achieved a 4% comp store gain on top of our 3.9% increase last year.
Not only does this represent continued strong absolute performance but it also compares very favorably to our key competitors.
We achieved a 64% increase in operating income in the quarter and a 190 basis point improvement in operating income as a percent of sales.
Earnings per share were significantly above last year and cash flow generation continued strong.
And we feel very prepared for the fourth quarter.
So I will discuss some of the factors behind this performance as well as our outlook for the fourth quarter and then as always we'll open the call for your questions.
Sales in the third quarter were $5 853 000 000 up 4.1% over last year.
On a comp store basis sales in the quarter were up 4% the lower end of our 4% to 4.5% guidance.
Our sales exceeded our expectations in August and September but in October as you know our sales fell a little short.
This can largely be explained by weakness in cold weather merchandise like coats sweaters and hats scarves and gloves and of course the snow in the Northeast on that last Saturday of October obviously hurt us as well.
We saw the business improve when the weather got colder so we remain optimistic for the fourth quarter.
Importantly we continue to see sales growth at both Macy's and Bloomingdale's and both from stores and online.
Our fourth quarter merchandising and marketing strategies are terrific and should enable us to achieve our 4% to 4.5% comp store sales growth guidance.
During the third quarter our Internet businesses continued to perform very well up 40% over last year.
The growth of our omnichannel business is one of the key initiatives driving our success.
We believe that the Internet and mobile sites are not only generating great results on their own but they're also helping us to drive sales into the stores.
In the third quarter our strongest geographic region was the Southeast followed by the South Central and Southwest.
In addition tourist stores in other regions like Herald Square in New York State Street and Water Tower in Chicago as well as San Francisco did very well.
Bloomingdale's also had a great third quarter although they too were hurt in October by the warm weather and the snowstorm.
By family of business our stronger performances where in Men's cosmetics handbags and watches.
And our weakest sales trends continued in Junior's and casual traditional Women's apparel.
Our home store sales in total were good although not as strong as center core in Men's.
Within Home our strongest businesses were textiles furniture and luggage.
In the third quarter the average unit retail was up 5% with transactions up approximately 1% and units per transaction down approximately 2% which means that units were down about 1%.
As you recall we had expected average unit retail to increase 5% to 7% this fall with fewer units being sold and we still believe that to be the case.
At the end of the quarter inventory in the balance sheet was up 9.6% at the lower end of the 10% to 12% expected range that I had given you during the second quarter earnings call.
Remember that we accelerated receipts into October from the first week of November to facilitate the processing of this inventory at our stores.
And we also accelerated receipts into the first week of all months as we discussed at the end of the second quarter which increases in transit.
That is why though when you look at inventory net of payables which also adjusts -- includes the in transit our inventory net of payables was up only 6% and excluding both the accelerated receipts and the higher in transit comp store stock would have been up by approximately the same amount as the expected fourth quarter  sales.
Our stores are more set than ever for the holiday selling and we hope that that pays off.
Remember though that the higher in transit will continue to be a factor at year end and at this point we expect to end the year with balance sheet inventory up 6% to 7% but comp store inventory up less than half of that amount.
Gross margin in the third quarter was 39.4% 60 basis points below last year which is about what we had expected.
This reduction is due to the introduction of free shipping at macys.com and the enormous growth of that business as well as Search and Send from our stores.
The merchandise margin was flattish in the third quarter.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $2 018 000 000 or 2.5% below last year.
And as a percent of sales SG&amp;A was 34.4% or 250 basis points below last year.
This is better than we had expected primarily due to the improved performance of our credit portfolio and to approximately $15 million of timing shifts primarily in marketing visual and selling expense from the third quarter into the fourth quarter.
Our Credit business generated $108 million more income in the third quarter this year than last year.
We had expected improvement as we discussed at the end of the second quarter but not this much.
This relates primarily to significantly lower write-offs.
The portfolio has improved faster than we had expected and balances are remaining current or are only moving into early ages and not going to write-off.
This is very good news.
And we are estimating that the profitability of our credit business this year will actually be higher than that in 2007.
Penetration of our proprietary cards in the third quarter was 48.8% down 50 basis points from last year.
This is due in part to the strength of our tourist stores and in part to a reduction in new accounts.
The approval rate of new accounts has declined as we expected because of more stringent abilit-to-pay standards.
Our SG&amp;A would've been pretty much as we expected in total without the great credit performance and that timing shift I had talked about.
Operating income in the quarter was $291 million 64% above last year and 190 basis points as a percent of sales.
Interest expense was $108 million in the quarter down from last year's $164 million.
Last year however did include $39 million related to the early retirement of debt.
Without that last year's interest expense would've been $125 million.
So on that basis this year our interest expense was $17 million lower.
Our tax rate in the quarter was 24%.
As discussed during the second quarter earnings call we expected favorable tax settlements in the back half of the year.
We had discussed this in August and said at that time they were likely to book in the third quarter which is in fact what happened.
Unfortunately tax settlements are very hard to predict on a quarterly basis.
These settlements were assumed however in our guidance of the approximately 37% tax rate for the full year.
Net income in the third quarter was $139 million average diluted share count was 431.8 million shares for the quarter.
And during the quarter we bought back 8.2 million shares of stock for approximately $221 million.
Earnings per share on a diluted basis in the third quarter was $0.32 versus $0.02 last year or $0.08 per share excluding the comps associated with the debt retirement.
Cash flow was strong and net cash provided by operating activity was $627 million versus $346 million last year.
And even after the higher CapEx this year cash flow before financing activities was $94 million more than a year ago.
We retired $639 million less debt than last year and even after the increased dividend and the buyback our net cash used year-to-date was $367 million approximately $600 million better than a year ago.
And our credit ratio has also continued to improve with our debt to EBITDA of 2.6 on a rolling 4 quarter basis versus our target of 2.4 to 2.7 and EBITDA of -- to interest of 6.8 which is actually above our target of 6.4 to 6.6.
We remain focused on keeping our ratios within our target range and being an investment-grade company.
So it was another good quarter all around sales earnings and cash flow we feel confident that the momentum we have heading into the fourth quarter combined with our holiday strategies bode well for that quarter.
As discussed earlier we continue to assume comp store sales will be up 4% to 4.5%.
The extra day in December before Christmas should not only help December sales relative to November but should also help the November-December combined time frame overall.
With that as our sales assumption we are assuming EPS of $2.70 to $2.75 for the full year.
This is $0.10 better than our prior guidance due to the improved credit performance and the stock buyback.
And remember this is $0.45 better than our initial guidance at the beginning of the year of $2.25 to $2.30.
This would represent significant growth also over last year's $2.11 excluding asset impairment charges store closing related costs and the premium on the early retirement of debt.
For the fourth quarter this guidance calculates to $1.52 to $1.57.
And based on this assumed performance our EBITDA as a percent of sales would be close to hitting the 13% mark in 2011.
This would represent approximately 70 basis points of improvement over our 2010 EBITDA rate of 12.3%.
That is great progress as we make our way to our objective of 14% to 15%.
Here's a few other comments on our key planning assumptions.
One while we expect our merchandise margins to be flattish in the fourth quarter our reported gross margin is expected to be down.
The decline however is expected to be less than that in the third quarter because we will have just about year-rounded on the free shipping through the Internet.
However because of the rapid growth in that business we are expecting it to still negatively impact our gross margin rate.
Two we are expecting SG&amp;A excluding any asset impairments or store closing cost to be up by less than the comp store sales growth even after the timing shift of the approximately $15 million of marketing visual and selling expense discussed earlier.
If we exceed our sales guidance by the way the expense increase could be a bit higher.
We are investing in our stores to support our MAGIC Selling efforts and we are funding additional resources to help our stores better recover after big days during the holiday season.
We also are investing in our omnichannel strategy.
Offsetting these investments is an assumption of approximately $55 million to $60 million of improved credit profitability versus last year in the fourth quarter.
Depreciation and amortization is estimated at approximately $282 million flat with the third quarter and slightly below last year.
Interest expense is assumed to be approximately $107 million in the fourth quarter.
And the tax rate is estimated to be approximately 38% in the quarter which will result in the annual rate of approximately 37% as anticipated all year long.
Last year remember there were favorable tax adjustments in the fourth quarter which led to a lower rate approximately 35%.
Had last year's tax rate in the fourth quarter been 38% the EPS would have been $0.07 lower.
So keep that in mind as you're comparing our fourth quarter guidance for this year relative to last year.
Also our guidance for the fourth quarter assumes no additional stock buyback.
We have said we would buy back some stock prior to the holiday season and not buy back a significant amount until the cash comes in from the holiday sales.
Also our guidance assumes no cost associated with store closings or asset impairments at year end.
Last year you'll recall that number was approximately $25 million and it is impossible though to estimate what it might be this year since those decisions have not yet been made.
And CapEx for the year is still expected to be $800 million.
While not related to the fourth quarter guidance I wanted to make sure you also saw our separate release this morning announcing 2 new Macy's stores and 1 replacement Macy's store.
So at this time we're planning to open 2 new Macy's next year.
Downtown Salt Lake City and Southridge in Milwaukee.
And then 4 in 2013 or early 2014 Gurnee Mills outside of Chicago Bay Plaza in the Bronx Victorville California and a replacement store in Bay Shore New York.
And for Bloomingdale's we've announced a new store in Glendale out in Southern California.
We are pleased that we're able to identify these great new store opportunities that will further improve our market position and continue to earn terrific returns on invested capital.
All in all we are pleased to be maintaining the momentum built over the past 2 years in sales growth earnings and cash flow as well as in gaining market share.
The fourth quarter is when retailers like Macy's and Bloomingdale's really shine and take on special meaning to customers.
We have great fashions exceptional gifts memorable experiences and well-trained associates in our stores and online for shoppers this holiday season.
We are all very excited about what the next 3 months will bring.
And with that I'll open the call up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question with Michelle Clark with MS.
Research Division</strong> So my first question in the third quarter incremental credit improvement of $108 million your fourth quarter outlook calling for improvement of $55 million to $60 million and while certainly positive a notable slowdown versus 3Q is there room for upside there? Is it conservative? Is that being factored into your outlook? What type of improvement are you assuming in the credit portfolio? I don't think it's conservative obviously we always hope to do better but I don't think is conservative.
The third quarter is larger than you might have expected because the way that profit share works with Citi who owns our portfolio is that we estimate for the year and then we have a 3 quarter true up in the third quarter.
So part of the reason that number was as large as it is is it includes 3 quarters of catch-up.
So you really can't look at the third quarter and expect that to be the same in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then can you talk about Karen where your bad debt expense is today versus prerecession levels.
Our bad debt expense is still a little higher than it was in '07.
Which still gives us some room to improve as we move into 2012 but the profitability as I said earlier overall is more so largely due to lower funding costs now than in '07.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned your fourth quarter  EPS outlook does not include incremental share buybacks in the fourth quarter.
Can you just discuss your appetite for buying back in the fourth quarter? I mean we have said that we we're going to buy some back before the holiday season but not a lot which is I think is consistent with what you saw in the third quarter.
And so we could buyback a little but frankly I think we're going to hold off in any significant way until we see and have the cash in from the holiday season.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question Karen if you could.
Updates on price optimization what are you seeing there and then the potential impact go forward to topline and gross margin? I think we continue to be very excited by the opportunity to price goods scientifically using the system that we're putting into place.
My guess is we're going to begin to see some of that benefit about this time next year.
We've begun to test it which is very interesting but it takes a long time.
You really have to get through a whole clearance cycle before you really understand how it's working.
So I wouldn't expect it to be meaningful in any way until frankly 2013.
But hope to begin to see some impact at this time next year.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Swinand with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Quickly just a little housekeeping with the tax settlement.
Obviously you've got a 37% rate blended for the full year is that something that we'll see year after year or is this kind of a onetime year settlement and now go up next year? Well we're still working on our planning for next year it's certainly our objective to try to stick to the 37% going forward.
And that would be the best I could tell you today as we give guidance for 2012 obviously if there's a change we would update it.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up question to Michelle's on the credit card portfolio isn't the average customer a little better off since there are maybe fewer people being extended credit? So wouldn't it be logical that the average customer might just be a better payor compared to 2007 in general or you don't want to go that far? I don't know that I want to go that far.
I mean I can tell you that the bad debt has come down faster than we had expected.
So that may be what you're talking about but we still have a little bit of room to go to even get to '07.
So again I think this will continue to some degree in 2012 but nowhere close to the magnitude of what we've seen this year.
Research Division</strong> But the average quality of the -- each cardholder is probably higher though right? As you cut out the bottom? One would think.
Research Division</strong> And then a question on the Online business I know we've talked about it before on the call but as you see such strong increases even lapping higher year increases can you talk about whether it's more of a conversion thing or are you extending reach and frequency of your online advertising to keep those online sales going? Yes it's very interesting we're finding that even with the very strong online businesses our store business is stronger than ever.
So they're actually working in tandem.
A lot of people were worried that it would not be incremental business.
But what we're finding is that the omnichannel customer spends more with us and some cases he or she will look at something online come try it on in the store sometimes vice versa.
Sometimes they'll buy it online return it in the store buy other things.
So it's actually a -- it's turning out to be far better in terms of generating sales growth than I think even we thought it would do.
Research Division</strong> Does the online customer buy as much private and exclusive label or is there different mix online versus in store...
I've never looked at that.
It would have to do with what we offer online but my guess is it's similar.
We're not finding huge differences if this is your question between our online customer and our in-store customer.
And we'll take our next question from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Karen just wanted to follow-up on CapEx.
I know you confirmed to the $800 million for this year.
With the New York flagship renovation coming on what should we expect the longer-term run rate to look like? Well we think it'll probably be in the range of $800 million to $850 million we're still working on the specifics for 2012.
Obviously as the EBITDA has increased we do have more capacity to spend a little bit more.
Also with more great new store opportunities you hate not to do those.
I mean it it'd be wrong not to if they have good return.
So it may go up a little bit not because it's Herald Square but because of other opportunities.
Herald Square we've worked in within the $800 million.
So next year maybe $850 million I don't yet we're still working on it.
I wouldn't see it though going above $900 million and that sort of gives you some range of where we're looking.
Research Division</strong> AUR was up 5% this quarter and you're still expecting 5% to 7% in the back half.
Any categories or can you talk a bit about your experience there what's been working better or worse? Yes it's interesting.
In most cases we've done a pretty good job of predicting the unit sales given the price increases.
So it's hard to say there's any 1 category where we were wrong there are programs here and there where we are -- we're finding pricing as we go.
But overall I think we get a pretty good job our merchants really focused on this of predicting fairly closely.
So I can't really tell you there's any categories where we were wrong.
And we'll take our next question from Todd Duvick with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Had a follow-up question I guess related to what you were talking earlier on share buybacks.
Now that you've met your leverage and coverage target ratios it seems like your free cash flow is not going to be deployed towards debt reduction going forward.
Can you talk about what you're expecting in terms of free cash flow deployment in 2012 and beyond is that something the board's going to decide on after the end of the fiscal year? Yes this is something we'll look at once we've seen how this year ends.
But clearly with our credit ratios where they are there will be much more cash being used for things like buy back or the dividend or those kinds of uses.
But also I expect we'll  continue to reduce debt also just not with 100% of the cash flow going to debt.
But I think we'll continue to be balanced as we have always said we would be.
Okay so as we look at some debt maturities in 2012 we could see some of that being refinanced but maybe some of it paid down as well? Yes I think that's fair.
And we'll take our next question from Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So as we think about holiday 2011 and I think there is some discussion about some marketing visual and selling expense shift.
Can we -- as we elaborate in terms of the celebrity gift shops and the G shops and then the early opening on Black Friday how should we think about Macy's approach to Holiday 2011? I think it's just even better refined way of approaching the business that we did last year.
I think the My Macy's impact on holiday is far greater this year than it was last year.
So I think you're  going to see better assortments in all of our doors which I think will be very exciting.
And we learned a lot last year and hopefully made those adjustments and we'll have a spectacular Christmas.
Research Division</strong> And I don't know if you can talk about I noticed just a few of them about the performance of the Bloomingdale's outlets and then also with the Gurnee Mills Macy's store will that be the first full price store in an outlet center? Yes first on the Bloomingdale's outlet that's performing well some better than others but we feel good about their performance and there will be more new outlets announced for next year we just don't have the deals completed yet.
But we're going to continue to expand that into '12 as well.
As to Gurnee Mills it is the first time we're going to have a full line regular Macy's store in an outlet or a mixed-use center and we're actually quite excited by it.
If it works it obviously opens up lots more opportunities for stores like that.
So we'll see.
And we'll take our next question from Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A few questions.
Just help us think about the marketing in terms of that shift from the third quarter into the fourth quarter that $15 million what does that mean in overall year-over-year? The marketing...
No what it means is that they had expected to pay for some things in the third quarter they're getting paid for it now.
So it really doesn't mean anything major in terms of the strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay so no shift fourth quarter year-over-year in terms of spend? We are spending in the fourth quarter as you would expect but that shift is not a function of that.
Research Division</strong> And then as it relates to gross margin I mean you had a flat merchandise margin in the quarter and it sounds like that's how you're planning for the fourth quarter.
Maybe you could help to sort of characterize what you see out there obviously you're opening earlier for Black Friday others started to jump on the bandwagon just give us your assessment.
We know holiday's always promotional but how you compare this year to past to previous seasons? Holiday periods are always promotional.
And I don't think any of us could make them more so because I don't think you can find a day between now and January to act.
So I -- and by the way planned promotions tend to be profitable.
It's only when inventory is out of line with sales which in our case is not the case where you get excessive markdowns and margin hits.
But in terms of promotions I think it's going to be pretty much as it's been the last couple of years which is very heavy.
But again planned promotions are not unprofitable.
Research Division</strong> Sure for you maybe not so much for others.
That's because they're not planned.
Research Division</strong> And then just following on the margin topic it sounds like the fourth quarter there'll be some easing on the pressures you lap free shipping year-over-year.
But the ramp in that channel it sounds like that will continue to be a pressure on margins.
Just help us think about as that channel continues to grow how we should think about gross margin next year as we think about free shipping you will have fully anniversary-ed it but does that headwind completely go away as the channel continues to grow in penetration? No the headwind will not go away.
But again what you all really should focus on is the profitability of this omnichannel business in total the EBIT or the operating income not just the gross margin.
It's sort of an oddity of GAAP accounting in my opinion that it ends up in margin that's a different issue.
But there's been a lot of noise about the drain of profitability because the growth of free shipping.
That's not the case.
It's just where it is on the P&amp;L.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Stein with North Coast Research.
Karen just a follow-up on your last comment can you tell us is there a material GAAP between the EBIT margin on your stores and online at the present time? Well it's one of those things Jeff that's really hard to quantify.
Some would argue it's more profitable online that in the stores.
I would argue perhaps we haven't allocated marketing expense properly when we look at it that way.
So I would say today the online business is more profitable but again if you fully allocate it expense I'm not sure.
But it's certainly not less profitable.
Got it.
And one additional question Karen because I'm a curious -- it's the first time that I can recall that you've made any comments regarding transaction growth in a quarter and I'm wondering is this something that we can expect to hear go forward and perhaps maybe you can put a little color behind it in terms of what kind of sensitivity you are seeing in various categories with respect to price increases and where you are seeing pushback from the consumer? Well I included it today because I thought it would be helpful.
I'm having had some conversations this morning I'm not sure that it is.
So I'll defer to you all on when we can talk about it.
As I said earlier there's not really any pushback category by category it's item by item across the store.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Karen just continuing on the gross margin theme I just want to make sure I'm understanding completely as we think about '12.
Maybe you can talk about what's working for you and against you on a gross margin line as we look out to next year? Well honestly and again it's early to talk about next year.
I look now our merchandise margins are flattish which is sort of what I've been telling people to project going forward for us there's lot of good things there's a lot of bad things and we've got the hit to gross margin on top of the merchandise results from the free shipping.
So when we give guidance after the end of the year we'll obviously do what we can to be helpful.
But I would expect gross margins merchandise margins to be flattish and there will be the continued headwind from the free shipping.
Research Division</strong> And how does the cost environment factor into your merchandise margin assumptions? That's just one of the factors we're dealing with.
I think our merchants did a really good job of trying to merchandise around the cost increases and where they could hold onto their margins or in some cases take more they did.
Other places with greater price sensitivity took a little hit on margins but again it all balanced in the mix.
This is when having an experienced organization like we do really helps.
And we'll take our next question from Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on the omnichannel at what point do you think your brick-and-mortar inventory system and your Internet inventory systems will be able to speak to one another chain-wide and effectively allow you to site to store to door nationwide somewhat of what Nordstrom did a couple of years ago.
Well we're going to be able to do it very soon.
We're testing it right now and early next year I think we're going to start doing it more and more with the systems we have today.
Having said that we are going to invest over time in better systems that allow us to maximize the inventory easier.
Without as much manual intervention but it's not going to prevent us from doing the site to store to door.
Research Division</strong> And any learnings on the testing so far? It's really a big opportunity.
Research Division</strong> I would expect so.
And just my second question just as you alluded to in your prepared remarks October was a little bit softer than the prior 2 months and some of your year-to-date trends just are you seeing anything abnormal in the day-to-day volatility in your business that would lead you to get a little bit more concerned as we turn the corner on the holiday period both at the Macy doors and Bloomingdale's? I think the easiest way of answering it is we didn't change our guidance.
So the answer is really no.
Now we're always nervous as we head into the fourth quarter it's obviously a pretty important quarter but nothing unusual.
Research Division</strong> And then last question it sounds like you're going to start buying back some stock last year kind of when you think of the next couple of years what your comfort level for cash to have on the balance sheet throughout the year I guess particularly at the end of the third quarter as you build for inventory? Yes that's obviously our trough point.
We're still working on those plans.
For this year obviously we did not want to borrow from the working capital facility.
I suspect we'll keep that guard rail in the future but I don't know yet.
So we'll have to see.
We'll take our next question from Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Hey Karen as we look at the fourth quarter and next year can you speak to the areas of opportunity on the top line how should we think about drivers online Bloomingdale's MAGIC Selling omnichannel looking forward curious how we should think about these drivers in terms of breaking down the overall comp and what your level of excitement toward each of these is going forward.
Well I don't know how to help you quantify each one of the strategies because they're all so interrelated.
But clearly we feel extremely excited about all 3 of our major strategies My Macy's which I think we continue to improve and get better at.
Omnichannel which we've been talking about this morning and MAGIC Selling where the culture is just building.
Our Net Promoter Scores are increasing significantly and we think that's going to help sales a lot as we move into next year.
So I would say we're equally excited about all 3 and we think it will be very helpful as we get beyond 2011 to continue the sales growth at good levels.
Research Division</strong> When you think about the competitive environment heading into the holiday and then also into next year anything you're seeing from competition peers online retailers any thoughts on Nordstrom's move to free shipping with no threshold looking forward.
Just kind of anything out there that you think is worth noting and potentially impacts any decision going forward.
I don't think so.
I think it's going to be other than perhaps the management change at Penny's everything feels pretty much as it would have felt a year ago.
Research Division</strong> And then last question just the kind of touch on something Chuck mentioned on the consumer behavior as you're seeing in your stores over the past few months are you seeing anything from your higher-end customers versus the lower-end demographics and along those the same lines anything in a category-specific more discretionary areas such as Home any changes of note? We really haven't seen any changes.
What we have been saying is that we do see in the world that the lower income customer is struggling more than the middle or upper end customer and I think that's continuing.
But I wouldn't say it's impacting anything differently now that it did a couple of months ago and not anything that we're seeing necessarily category by category.
And we'll take our next question from Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
I guess some questions about the renovation.
During the renovation are you expecting any sales disruption? And then as you look out at your fleet in general are you sort of happy with how the stores look and feel can you give us any sort of updated thoughts on when certain number of stores has been touched how we sort of used to go through that.
At one point in time talk about like 75% of the stores have been refreshed or anything like that we could know about the fleet? First on Herald Square we do expect there to be some disruption next year but we would still expect the store to grow year-over-year and we're still obviously quantifying the details there.
I think it's also important to say that the renovation of Herald Square is not coming at the expense of maintaining the rest of the stores.
So we're continuing to invest to try to maintain the fleet as you call it.
Year-by-year we typically touch 40 to 50 stores a year and that will continue.
'08 '09 was a little less than that as you might expect as we brought the capital down but we're back up to that level and I think that feels about right so we'll continue to do that.
We'll take our next question from Robert Drbul with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess Karen as you look at '12 given the credit results from this year overall for the full year would you think credit would be continue to be a tailwind or do you think it will be a headwind given some of the especially the third quarter and what you're seeing for the...
As I said we're still looking at 2012 but I don't expect it to be a headwind.
I don't think we'll get the improvement again because as I said we're already going to be more profitable this year than in 2007 but I think it will continue to be accretive to operating income next year in terms of growth.
But again nowhere close to the magnitude.
Now that's for the full year.
By quarter it may be quirky.
So when we give guidance we'll obviously update you because as I explained that in the third quarter we had a bit of a catch up for the first 2 quarters so it may be the next year in the third quarter.
The shift -- the income by quarter may be different but we'll update you when we give guidance for 2012.
Research Division</strong> And then just following on the Herald Square remodel the ROI for the company would you expect that to be impacted major league from the Herald Square remodel? How should we think about that? Let me be clear we would not be doing the Herald Square remodel if didn't exceed our hurdle rates for internal rate of return and ROIC.
So it will be accretive to our hurdle rates and cost of capital.
And we'll take our next question from Steve Kernkraut with Berman Capital.
Just a couple of follow-up questions most of my questions have really been asked and answered already but in terms of your buyback just to try to parse through your language I guess the big buyback would be in 2012 but given that the cash you've finished here with your cash needs.
At this point well you've hit your peak and you saw it taking the cash now in November so there's no reason that we should be or you should be precluded from buying back shares come December you don't have to wait for all the results to be tallied is that correct? I think that's correct but as I said I wouldn't expect anything significant.
And lastly in terms of your e-commerce business what percent of your overall business is on -- done on the Internet at this point? Yes I think -- I don't have that number in my head.
I could sit here and calculate it but I can call you later Steve.
And we'll take our next question from Ken Stumphauzer from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First I wanted to touch on SG&amp;A and in particular credit's been a pretty significant tailwind at least the past 2 quarters and if you back out the number kind of looks like SG&amp;A may have actually would have otherwise delevered the past 2 quarters.
So I'm curious to know was there things that maybe you accelerated into these quarters knowing that it was going to be such a tailwind was there investments that were accelerated in the quarter I should say? I thought -- it's part of our business.
And we manage the totality and we're very involved in the management of the credit business and it's not something I just sort of push aside.
Let me just sort of say that to start some of you have sort of treated it as something different.
That's really part of our expense management of the company.
And in terms of the increase without the credit it's all the factors we've been talking about all year investing in selling and omnichannel.
But again it's been a great quarter anyway.
Research Division</strong> I guess the purpose of my question is just in the past you get to significant leverage unlike a mid- single-digit comp and I'm just wondering if that kind of equation has been altered this year or if it's just an instance where you saw an opportunity to kind of chase things? We did not see an opportunity let me start there.
And I think we've talked about the fact that incremental omnichannel sales are sometimes a higher incremental expense rate than store sales where you're fully staffed already but remember I think what I would tell you is look at the bottom line and assuming we hit 13% this year in EBITDA that's terrific and we'll only get better as we get to the 14% to 15%.
So we're managing the whole business to get to that level.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then understanding of course that you're going to evaluate all of this at the end of the fourth quarter but you have very significant lumpiness in cash flow I'm just curious to know whether you would perhaps entertain the prospect of an ASR towards the end of 4Q? I'm not going to comment.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last comment or excuse me a question for you specifically on price points you indicated AURs were up kind of mid- single-digit range.
That seems to be kind of below where inflation is trending at least for footwear and apparel.
So is it an issue where you're having more private label on exclusive mix is it willing decision not to raise prices as much as inflation is up? It's yes yes and a lot of other factors.
So and again remember the 5% is blended.
So in areas where the price increases were greater the AUR may be up more.
I'm giving you the total store.
And we'll take our next question from Bernard Sosnick with Guildford Securities.
Research Division</strong> Macy's has been investing heavily to be customer centric and in the MAGIC program and it's shown up quantitatively in your good sales.
I'm wondering what you're finding qualitatively in terms of your market research with regard to customer satisfaction loyalty the willingness to buy at full price? Interestingly we've just year-rounded on tracking the Net Promoter Score.
And the increase was enormous year-over-year and the research that goes along with that has been very positive.
So we feel good about that.
And obviously the bottom line tends to be the sales line so we obviously feel great about the year-over-year sales growth that we've been able to achieve.
Research Division</strong> With respect to loyalty and the willingness to buy at full price are you seeing anything there? Well our regular price sell-throughs have been very strong often due to the quality of the fashion and assortments we're bringing in.
But potentially it relates to MAGIC Selling as well I hadn't really thought about that but that could be part of it.
Research Division</strong> And could you comment a bit on the Junior business and the Women's casual traditional.
I think it's -- I think they're probably different.
But in both cases we're making changes to our offering to try to improve them.
I would say both are highly competitive categories of business.
And certainly for casual traditional apparel I think we're hearing about weakness elsewhere but our expectations as we go to spring at least for the private label component of that we've retooled our Charter Club line and we think it looks spectacular but we won't know for sure until we get into the spring.
And we'll take our next question from Rob Wilson with Tiburon Research.
Inc.</strong> Karen if we go back 3 months what was your expectation for the credit benefit in Q3 versus the $108 million that you reported today.
Yes we didn't give that at the time we just said to expect continued improvement.
So the second quarter had been $57 million better than a year ago just to give you some sense but we didn't talk about our credit plans.
Inc.</strong> Is it fair to say you were kind of thinking $57 million again? It's not fair to say I'm -- we're really not disclosing it.
Inc.</strong> You talked about the lower approval rates for your credit portfolio could you give us some additional color are the number of your accounts declining year-over-year or just the...
The new accounts that were down in the third quarter and it's primarily driven by the approval rate being worse than a year ago which is actually what we had expected to have happened because at point of sale we're having to ask not only for income information but also housing information.
Now what we're finding is we've started referring more customers at point of sale into our credit granting group just to make sure they understand what they're being asked and that they entered information correctly.
And so what are finding in fact is that people are making mistakes as they're entering this information.
So we hope we'll be able to improve on these statistics as we go forward.
Inc.</strong> Who's making the decision about the approval of credit accounts is that a joint decision between you and your credit partner or do you guys drive that? No it's really Citi but it's our people we take the phone call but they're really controlling to whom we're granting credit and how much.
Inc.</strong> Okay and one final question marketing spend this year versus last year is it increasing or decreasing? I don't have the number in front of me.
My suspicion is that it's about the same.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays Capital.
Karen just sticking to some of the potential refinancing needs that you may have next year around your debt.
As sort of market opportunities present themselves heading into the tail end of this year do you guys have an appetite to potentially look to pre-finance some of those obligations? I'm not really sure I should answer that.
We obviously watch the markets closely.
So I wouldn't say never but I'm not -- so I guess the best answer is no comment.
And we'll take our next question from David Glick with Buckingham research group.
Inc.</strong> We saw some moderation in the trend at higher end department stores in October and obviously there a lot of issues some of which you called out but could you share with us how much of a deceleration you may have seen at Bloomingdale's? And do you still expect Bloomingdale's to outperform the overall business going forward? Yes I do.
I think that's easiest way of answering that.
Inc.</strong> And can you give us a sense for how much trend may have -- did it moderate consistent with the overall trend? No sorry.
And Ms.
Hoguet we have no further questions at this time.
Great.
Well thank you all very much.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Macy's Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I'm Karen Hoguet CFO of Macy's Inc.
And on behalf of our company I'd like to welcome you to our conference call scheduled to discuss our fourth quarter earnings.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
2011 was another record year for Macy's Inc.
We are very proud of our team and the momentum we have built up.
Our sales grew approximately 5% in comp stores for the second year in a row while increasing the profitability of the company.
This results from the combination of great strategies and terrific execution which has helped us to gain market share.
Our EBITDA rate as a percent of sales increased 80 basis points in 2011 on top of last year's 100-basis-point increase.
And we have strategies to increase it further to the 14% to 15% targeted level while continuing to invest in driving top line sales.
We also increased our return on invested capital by 230 basis points in 2011 almost reaching 20%.
And our return to investment grade ratings in all agencies speaks to the strength of our balance sheet our performance and the sustainability of our strategy.
It is great to be entering the new year with so much positive energy throughout our organization.
I will outline the key aspects of our fourth quarter and the full year 2011 performance and then discuss some of our key assumptions for 2012.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $8 724 000 000 up 5.5% over last year.
And on a comp store basis our sales in the quarter grew 5.2%.
Sales in the fourth quarter exceeded our expectations reflecting a very strong holiday performance.
Our sales performance continued to be balanced.
We were pleased with our performance at Macy's as well as at Bloomingdale's online and in stores.
In fact all regions across the country produced sales growth this year for both the quarter and the full year.
All year long our southern regions across the country performed best and that continued in the fourth quarter.
And the northeast also had strong sales growth in the fourth quarter.
By family of business we saw strength during the quarter in so many categories including cosmetics and fragrances shoes handbags watches men's textiles housewares and furniture.
And the areas with the most notable weakness in the quarter were the cold weather merchandise areas junior's and traditional casual women's apparel.
Average unit retail in the quarter was up 9% while transactions were up approximately 1% and units per transaction down approximately 4%.
For the second half of the year our average unit retail was up approximately 7% which is at the high end of the 5% to 7% that we had anticipated.
All in all we did a great job anticipating and planning for the merchandise cost increases that we had experienced.
Gross margin in the fourth quarter was 41% down 30 basis points from last year.
Merchandise margins were flat in the quarter while we were negatively impacted by the free shipping as expected.
Inventory at year end was up 7.5% over a year ago.
This is a little higher than the 6% to 7% we had expected due to the decision to keep cold weather merchandise in the stores longer than usual so it would be available for the customer when the weather has historically turned coldest.
While you might not know it on the East Coast winter isn't over yet.
And by the end of the first quarter this merchandise will be gone and our cost store inventory will be again below expected sales growth.
Also remember the year-end inventory continued to be impacted by the higher in-transit discussed each quarter in 2011.
We've now year-rounded on the change so it will no longer be a factor as we enter 2012.
In the fourth quarter SG&amp;A in dollars was $2 314 000 000 or 3% over last year.
As a percent of sales it was 26.6% down 60 basis points from a year ago.
This is better than expected due to various year-end adjustments and lower depreciation relating to the timing of capital expenditures.
Credit profitability in the quarter increased by $59 million over a year ago which is within the range of what we had expected at the beginning of the quarter.
We clearly continue to benefit from the stronger portfolio performance.
At the end of the quarter we sold 4 store leases to Lord &amp; Taylor that they had been subleasing from us since the 2006 divestiture.
We booked a $54 million gain on this sale.
Also in the quarter we booked $29 million in costs primarily associated with the announced store closings of which $22 million was noncash asset impairment charges.
The net of these 2 items is the $25 million of income that you see on the P&amp;L.
Interest expense in the quarter was $108 million as expected.
The tax rate was 36.6% in the fourth quarter.
You'll recall that last year in the fourth quarter our tax rate was 35% so the year-over-year comparison in fourth quarter earnings is negatively impacted by the higher tax rate.
Average diluted share count in the quarter was 427.3 million shares.
During the quarter we bought back approximately 8.2 million shares.
So since we resumed our stock buyback program during the third quarter we have bought back a total of 16.4 million shares for approximately $500 million at an average price of $30.57.
EPS in the fourth quarter on a diluted basis excluding store closing costs and the gain on the sale to Lord &amp; Taylor was $1.70 well above both expectations and last year.
Our cash flow was also very strong throughout the year in 2011.
During the year operating activities generated $2.1 billion of cash as compared to $1.5 billion last year.
Our pension contribution this year was $375 million versus $825 million a year ago.
And CapEx was $764 million this year below the budgeted $800 million dollars due to the timing of the cash outlay.
Cash flow before financing activities was $1.476 billion up $435 million over a year ago.
In the financing section of the cash flow you will note the $800 million of debt that we issued in January.
Given market conditions we accessed the market in advance of the approximately $790 million of debt maturing during the first half of 2012 $617 million in March and $173 million in July.
At the end of the year we had $2.8 billion of cash on our balance sheet or $2 billion excluding the debt issuance which we used to pay down debt.
This compares to $1.46 billion at the end of last year.
Our return on invested capital in 2011 was 19.7% up the 230 basis points over last year that I referred to earlier.
And our credit ratios excluding the impact of the January debt issuance were well within our targets with debt to EBITDA at 2.6 relative to our target levels of 2.4 to 2.7 and our EBITDA to interest of 7.1 relative to the range in our target of 6.4 to 6.6.
Maintaining credit ratios at least in the target range is very important to us and you can check our website to the specific calculations.
Let's now move on to 2012.
As stated earlier we expect the momentum to continue.
For planning purposes we are assuming a comp store increase of approximately 3.5% on a 52-week basis.
Remember our retail calendar includes an extra week in January in 2012.
So for the full year our total sales including this extra week are expected to be up approximately 1 point over our comp store sales increase.
Now obviously in the fourth quarter given that extra week we're expecting a much bigger gap in fact 3.5 points higher total store growth in comp.
However in the first 3 quarters of the year total sales growth is expected to be slightly below our comp store growth due to the locations that we closed at the end of 2011.
We are planning to open 2 new stores in 2012 both in fact next month.
One in Milwaukee and one in Salt Lake City.
We are also opening 5 new Bloomingdale's outlets during 2012 bringing the total number to 12.
We are assuming a flattish growth margin rate for the year although we could have continued pressure from free shipping given the sales growth expected in the omnichannel business.
And by the way this may not be the case in every quarter but over the course of the year we do expect the gross margin rate to be flattish.
On the SG&amp;A front we expect to be able to continue to improve our expense rate as a percent of sales.
We expect our income from the credit portfolio to increase approximately $15 million to $20 million during 2012 but we are expecting big variances when we look at the comparison to last year and each quarter.
As we start this year we're expecting a year of strong credit portfolio performance and therefore the earnings will be more evenly distributed through the year.
This is obviously very different from 2011 when the good news ended up being much more back-end loaded particularly in the third quarter of 2011.
For the year we're expecting retirement expense pension plus SERP to increase by approximately $65 million while depreciation is expected to decline approximately $25 million for the year.
For interest expense we're assuming approximately $435 million to $444 million -- I'm sorry $440 million for the year.
And we're assuming an effective tax rate of 36.95% for 2012 although it will vary by quarter.
And our CapEx budget for 2012 is $850 million.
In terms of uses of cash we are now planning to contribute $150 million to the pension plan during the year and we will pay off the $1.1 billion of debt at maturity.
Remember that we in essence pre-funded the March and July maturities with the issuance in January and we have an additional $298 million of debt maturing in January of 2013.
With our excess cash we expect to buy back stock on a regular basis throughout the year depending on market conditions.
We have approximately $1.3 billion of authorization remaining.
So net-net we are assuming earnings per share on a diluted basis of $3.25 to $3.30 for 2012.
This represents an increase of 13% to 15% over 2011's diluted EPS excluding store closing costs and the gain on the sale to Lord &amp; Taylor.
This does not include any store closing-related costs that we could incur in 2012.
The real headline from today's announcement is the significant back-to-back-to-back improvement in our results over the past 3 years.
When we first announced our new strategic direction in 2008 and 2009 we talked about the opportunity we saw to accelerate sales growth and improve overall financial performance.
And that is exactly what happened in 2009 2010 and again in 2011 as our organization has executed superbly and captured market share from our competitors.
But as you have heard us say many times we're not even close to being done.
We have in place a whole new set of activities beginning this spring to continue to refine our localization approach within My Macy's and empower our organization to meet the specific needs of customers by location.
We are also forging ahead with experiments and innovations within our omnichannel strategy to serve customer needs in-store online and via mobile.
Not only is this driving sales but it is also beginning to help us improve the management and velocity of our inventory.
In MAGIC Selling we are strengthening the coaching process among sales managers and associates on the selling floor so our customer engagement is consistent and leads to more items in her shopping bag.
And you will be hearing more about our initiatives to engage millennial customers in more comprehensive and powerful ways as we sharpen our focus on what is now America's largest and most diverse generation.
We feel very good about our prospects in 2012 to strengthen our business at both Macy's and at Bloomingdale's.
We also feel very good about the groundwork we are laying now for continued growth beyond 2012.
The results we are generating are very real and the momentum in our business has our organization ready to take the company to the next level of success.
And so now what questions can I answer? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> In terms of store to door right now how many stores are on that program? What's the pace at which they'll be ramping? And what's the opportunity available? 23 stores were available this fall for us to be able to ship from a different store to the customer directly.
And in 2012 that number by the fall season should reach approximately 290.
Obviously big success this fall and we think it's going to be a big opportunity for continued growth.
Research Division</strong> And then in-store obviously MAGIC Selling training has been a huge success.
Can you talk about online customer service? Yes.
Actually to the fourth quarter this year that was a very big priority.
But frankly we have been disappointed with some of the service issues the year before.
And we think we did a much better job the customer service scores improved significantly.
And so we'll continue to work both in making the site easier to navigate and also make sure that we have the customer service backed up when there are questions or issues that come up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question it sounds like the holiday season overall exceeded your plan.
What were the key drivers? Well it always starts with the sales line.
And when you can achieve sales growth over 5% that's always obviously a great thing.
We invested in certain ways to achieve that sales growth in the selling floor and some of the support functions in our stores in marketing and obviously also the investment in store fulfillment.
And it clearly all paid off in terms of the sales that we got.
We'll go next to Liz Dunn with Macquarie Capital.
I guess in terms of getting to the 14% to 15% EBITDA margin can you talk about -- I'm assuming most of that will come from leverage on continued strong sales.
And then in terms of your 3.5% comp growth for 2012 can you talk about how price will play into that? Yes.
I mean in terms of how we're going to get to the 14% to 15% you're right a lot of that will be leveraged from sales growth.
We also are working to reduce expense where we can in areas that obviously won't impact the sales that we're generating.
Also we see opportunities for gross margin rate as we go forward both from markdown optimization that we've been working on and also as we are able to improve the inventory turn through our omnichannel strategy that should help gross margin rate over time as well.
Not in 2012 necessarily but as we go farther out.
So we feel good about that.
Okay great.
And then looking at the direct-to-consumer business I think you said about $2 billion is what you're looking for for 2012 or is that just over $2 billion? Because it looks like with the growth that you had for 2011 that would suggest a little bit of a slowdown in the growth rate.
Can you help us think about how that...
Yes.
No we do expect it to be more than $2 billion.
And hopefully it will continue to grow at the pace that it is.
Obviously it's a pretty high rate to continue but we do expect it to be more than the $2 billion.
And we'll go next to Steve Kernkraut with Berman Capital.
I guess I had just one question just on the e-commerce business as well.
The way -- what impact does the growth of e-commerce business have on the overall inventory where the inventory is up 7.5%? You would think it would be able to grow less because so much of that online inventory is centralized in your distribution  centers.
Yes.
I mean the inventory turns for the online business are significantly higher than the store.
And one of the things that we're doing as we enable the 290 stores to ship to the customer directly will be the ability to supplement online sales using store inventory which based on our tests we think will be a big contributor to sales in 2012 and beyond.
So we...
Yes.
I mean I would think as time goes on that your sales should be able to grow at a much faster rate than your inventory.
That's the expectation Steve.
It will be having -- utilizing our inventory better whether it be in the warehouses or in stores.
And we'll go next to Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
As we think about omnichannel and CapEx what CapEx initiative is involved in omnichannel? And what do you see that achieving the operating margin or EBIT margin goals going forward? Does it happen faster in 2 years what's your sense? Well I think we will be investing in technology and omnichannel for a long time to come.
There's different pieces to it.
There's a small piece that relates to the store fulfillment.
There's a bigger piece that relates to building incremental warehousing space.
As you know we're opening our next big mega center in West Virginia this year.
So that's a big chunk.
And there's a lot being spent in terms of software development to improve the site itself.
But we will be continuing to invest in that plus store technology as we go forward.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Karen can you maybe share with us what your specific assumptions are for how e-com factors into that 3.5% comp guidance? And then just wondering if you can maybe talk about whether you have any new specific initiatives on the e-com side of the business that will act as a tailwind this year.
We don't break out that as part of our planning to disclose -- sorry I can't give you that number.
And in terms of improvement in e-commerce a lot of it will have to do with the merchandising on the site and getting greater alignment with the stores.
So I think that will be a big chunk of it.
And obviously continuing to try to make the site easier to navigate.
Research Division</strong> Will you be increasing the merchandise available online stuff that you wouldn't necessarily have in your stores? We do some of that.
But more of what we're trying to do is actually increase the alignment with the stores.
And we'll go next to Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on -- go back to Steve's question earlier on site to store to door and the comp.
Do you expect that 3.5% comp to be consistent throughout the year? Or do you expect it to be back-end weighted? Because I'd imagine if Nordstrom's any bit of a playbook for us you would expect a pretty big comp lift as you get to 290 stores towards the end of the year.
At this point I would say it's relatively even through the year by quarter in terms of the expectation.
But there's always hope that as we get to 290 stores it does what we think it could do.
And obviously that would help comps as we go through the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then you've always talked about this 14% to 15% EBITDA target for longer-term goals.
But it appeared to me that there's a lot of opportunity and you kind of alluded to it on the gross profit margin line with inventory productivity as well as sales efficiency as you get more of your business online to maybe exceed that.
I mean have you guys thought about that as your -- as part of your long-term planning? Yes I thought about it Steve.
I don't see that we'll exceed it.
I mean there's always that possibility.
But remember we're also trying to invest for growth so you've got to balance it all.
So I think getting to 14% I can see pretty easily.
Getting to 15% frankly will be more challenging.
And if I were you I would not count on getting above the 15%.
Again not that it won't happen but it'll be a ways out is my guess.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick question here.
The past couple of quarters you've bought back I think 16 million shares and I know that there's some level of buybacks in your guidance.
Just wondering if you could give us a little bit of sense for what you guys are thinking as part of the $3.25 to $3.30 EPS for you.
We're not making out exactly what we've assumed in terms of the buyback.
But you should get a sense of what we've been doing.
And the idea it's just part of the story.
We're going to take our excess cash and buy back stock.
We'll take our next question from Michelle Clark with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Karen you mentioned the 53rd week impact.
Can you just detail for us what you're expecting in terms of the EPS lift in the fourth quarter? No.
Actually Michelle we really aren't breaking it out.
It's sort of a complicated calculation.
Obviously adds a lot to sales and it's a very profitable week as you might imagine.
But we are not giving specific guidance as to the EPS impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then your comp outlook for 2012 of 3.5% I'm guessing that that assumes no pick up from any disruption related to J.
C.
Penney? Well we'll have to see how that plays out.
Our best assumption right now is the 3.5% and we'll see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Karen I was wondering or hoping that you could update us on price optimization when we should expect to see that impact your gross margin and top line results.
Yes.
My guess is we'll continue to experiment this year.
It's proven to be a little more complicated than we originally thought.
But initial tests are looking good.
So my guess is we're probably talking about back half of '13.
We'll go next to Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Karen just specifically on some of the merchandise weakness.
Obviously very strong performance on many categories but we can understand the cold weather items.
Just maybe if you could share some specific initiatives to kind of help turn junior's and that traditional casual women's business around.
Yes.
I mean I think on the casual women's traditional business I think that's been a business that's been weak throughout the industry.
It's not just a Macy's issue.
And we have retooled some of the private brands that are in that area.
And interestingly initial selling on that is looking very strong.
So we have some hope that in 2012 that business will continue.
In the case of junior's it's a very competitive marketplace.
As I alluded a few minutes ago we've spent a lot of time this year evaluating our strategies for the millennial customer which include sort of 2 categories: the younger millennial which is the junior customer; and also the older millennial where today frankly we see a lot of white space and opportunity for us.
And I think as we move on we'll see improvement in that business as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a question on the fourth quarter margins.
I mean obviously impressive flat margin -- merchandise margins given the holiday season but if you connect the fact that inventory a little bit heavier at quarter end and your comment that maybe not every quarter we should see flat margins could we see some pressure in the first quarter based on some overhang coming out of the fourth? There's really no overhang coming out of the fourth.
As you might imagine we take the markdowns when they're needed.
That doesn't mean there won't be pressure in the first quarter by the way but it's for different reasons.
Research Division</strong> And the different reasons? Well no I mean it just has to do with the promotional nature of the first quarter.
But again we've talked about flattish margins but we did not come out of the quarter with significant overhang.
We'll go next to Matthew Boss JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Karen can you elaborate on My Macy's? And looking forward additional layers of opportunity here I think you've talked to the My Macy's initiative now in the fourth or fifth inning.
So just looking for any color on the second half game plan here.
Yes.
I mean the key thing as you think about My Macy's 3 things are happening.
One is the people in jobs have been there longer and so they're getting better and better at not only understanding the opportunities in their markets but also communicating with the central merchants to make them happen.
So I think the more time in job the district people have had the better the 2-way communication is happening.
The second thing is that we continue to find new opportunities as we study markets in a more refined way whether it be differences in the tourist customer in different markets whether it be new strategies.
For example the need for cold summer assortments in places like the Pacific Northwest or Southern living strategies sort of across Atlanta and the Southeast.
So the second point is that we're continuing to find new opportunities strategically as we look at market-by-market.
And then the third point I would make is that we took a lot of time this summer and went back and surveyed all the store managers like we had done back in '06 which was the beginning of My Macy's to try to understand how we could improve it further.
And we have -- I think it's roughly 13 initiatives that our teams are busily working on to even make it work better.
So a combination of those 3 factors Matt makes me feel really good that there's still a lot more to come from My Macy's.
Research Division</strong> Wow that's great.
And then on the product side you mentioned a little bit around private label.
But can you speak to current and some upcoming initiatives which in the stores that we should keep our eyes on? I guess particularly the Charter Club relaunch and any other category-specific noteworthy changes to just keep our eyes open for.
Yes.
No I think there's a lot that's gone on in the women's apparel area the Charter Club redo or refresh is probably a better word.
The Bar III launch has been terrific in the impulse arena.
And we've recently launched a new active line Ideology which just looks spectacular and we think will be an important part not only in the millennial strategy but also for older women as well.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> On the SG&amp;A and the credit portfolio tailwind I think you gave some numbers in the prepared remarks.
Looking at 2012 is there assumption that it will sort of flattish? Or do you think that that portfolio can keep getting better even below pre-recession levels? Is your question credit? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm sorry.
Yes we had said that we expect there to be continued improvement in the credit profitability for us of $15 million to $20 million for the year.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
Okay.
And then on the inventory store to door I know you said that that should improve turns because it's a centralized inventory.
But if the sale that you're missing that's in the store and not in the centralized inventory is that just a size? Or is that something that you didn't have in the centralized inventory? Because you did say you were going to make the inventory more like each other.
Well I think the key thing is as you think about shipping merchandise from stores the logic that will be built into the system as of this summer which is consistent with the rollouts of the 290 stores is that there will be a logic build-in that will pull the inventory from the store least likely to sell the goods.
So it's frankly a markdown that would have happened had we not sold it as opposed to a lost sale.
It's really quite cool if it works properly.
And there'll also be a faster build-in for distance to customer.
But the compelling part of the logic the key driving factor will be where the goods are selling through the slowest to pull it from those stores.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay understood.
And then sorry to beat this horse a little more but on the credit side realizing you gave the number the $20 million but are you assuming that you go to better charge-offs and delinquency ratios than you had? And is that something that can keep going? Well the price portfolio continues to improve but the major adjustments that happened in 2011 is done.
But we don't expect it to deteriorate from where we are.
We'll go next to David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
A couple  questions.
I was wondering if you could give us an update on the renovation plans for Herald Square and the time frame that that will occur and whether any disruption in sales are expected this year.
And then secondly we talked about some of the challenging areas from a merchandising front.
But clearly the drivers have been in the accessories men's and part of the home area.
Are you counting on those areas to outperform once again in 2012? Yes.
I mean let me answer the second question first and I'll go back to Herald Square.
Obviously we're expecting the businesses that have been doing well to continue to do well.
And our hope is that we could also layer in a stronger of the casual traditional women's apparel as well.
So in part we think the momentum will continue to build as a result.
In terms of Herald Square there's really nothing more to report.
We continue to expect to spend about $400 million over the next 4 years.
And yes we're factoring in some disruptions although we frankly don't think it's going to be tremendous.
But we continue to be extraordinarily excited about what we're going to be able to create here.
Are you seeing any changes in tourist traffic in the last 2 or 3 months? I don't believe so David.
We'll go next to Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Why don't you -- if you could tell us what the private label and branded exclusive penetration was for the latest fiscal year? Yes.
I don't have it in front of me Jeff but I think it's still around the 20% for the private label and north of 40% for the limited distribution.
Okay.
And how about -- back to your capital spending budget for a moment.
What percent of your budget will be IT-related this year compared to prior year? I don't know that offhand but my suspicion is it's fairly similar to prior years.
We've been investing for a long time in omnichannel as well as improving our core systems.
Got it.
And I know in each of the last 2 years and this relates to SG&amp;A you've invested in the MAGIC Selling.
Is it going to be similar in terms of the dollars you're going to spend to that effort in 2012? And then maybe you could address the issue of marketing spend year-on-year.
Yes.
I believe that we will continue to invest in the MAGIC Selling at a comparable ratio -- amount that we've spent in recent years.
And in terms of marketing we're planning a flattish rate.
So dollars will go up rate will not.
And we'll go next to Bob Drbul of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> It's Joan Payson standing in for Bob today.
And just 2 questions in terms of next year on that 3.5% comp.
If possible could you provide some sort of additional color on the AUR assumptions there? Yes.
I mean we expect the AUR to continue to increase particularly in the first half of the year.
A specific amount I can't really tell.
It's hard to forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the Bloomingdale's outlets just looking at how those have been performing and sort of what you're targeting for store number penetration in the long term.
Yes we're still developing how many we can add so it's hard to answer.
At the end of this year we expect to have 12 and it will grow from there.
How many we ultimately have I just don't know at this point.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> As you begin to plan your inventory for the back half just knowing that you're coming up against a 7% increase in AUR how are you thinking about unit velocity and growth versus pricing as you come up against that very difficult comparison? Yes.
I mean obviously we're spending a lot of time -- last year we spent a lot of time thinking about the unit plans given the price increases that we experienced for the first time in recent history.
Now we're spending as much time thinking about what do you do the second year.
So it's being thought through category-by-category much like we did last year.
And hopefully our planning will pay off as well this coming fall as it did this year.
Research Division</strong> And then as far as your credit penetration does the guidance that you gave for credit income assume an increase in that? And what are your strategies around growing that this year? It actually doesn't.
It actually assumes a slight decline which is what we've been experiencing.
In 2012 our penetration of credit was roughly 47.3% down about 50 basis points from the year before.
Part of that we think relates to the challenges with the new account approval that relates to a lot of the regulations coming out of Washington.
I think also as our market share is growing we've got a lot more customers in our store who don't yet have a Macy's card.
We hope to change that.
But to some degree it also relates to the new account approval process.
It also appears as if some of our customers are deleveraging and using debit cards more than their Macy's credit card.
And then obviously the strength in the tourist business that we've been seeing where customers tend not -- especially the international tourists -- tend not to have our credit cards impacts us in some of the big tourist locations like Herald Square Union Square Florida et cetera.
But we -- so we are assuming it to be down slightly next year.
And it appears we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
Great.
Well thank you all very much.
And if you have other questions as the day goes on just let us know.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Macy's Inc.
Conference Call.
At this time I'd like to return the call over to Ms.
Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I'm Karen Hoguet CFO of Macy's and on behalf of our company I'd like to welcome you to our conference call scheduled to discuss our first quarter earnings.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K.
The team at Macy's continued to produce great results in the first quarter.
We are very proud of our performance and the consistency in our results.
The strategic investments we are making are working and we continue to find new strategies to grow.
We achieved a comp store sales increase of 4.4% in the first quarter well above our expectation at the start of the year.
Our operating income grew 18% above last year and 80 basis points as a percent of sales.
And our earnings per share grew 43%.
I will take you through some of the details behind these numbers and give our current view of the second quarter and the rest of the year.
And then I'll open the call for your questions.
Sales of $6.1 billion in the quarter continued to be strong in both of our brands at Macy's and at Bloomingdale's and also in-store as well as online.
We are seeing more and more opportunity to satisfy demand from customers when they're in the store with inventory that comes from other locations and from our direct-to-customer distribution centers.
We are also beginning to be able to satisfy online demand with store inventory when the distribution center runs out of a particular item.
It is really very exciting to watch.
We now have over 80 stores equipped to fulfill orders from other stores or from online demand and by the holiday season we'll have over 290 store fulfillment locations.
We think the sales potential from this omnichannel approach is enormous.
In addition over time it should enable us to also improve the productivity of our inventory as well as our store square footage.
We have barely scratched the surface here and we are very optimistic about the possibilities.
Our strong sales performance in the quarter was also very broad-based in terms of merchandise categories.
Sales continued to be strong in Men's Center Core meaning categories like watches jewelry handbags cosmetics shoes et cetera and also in home.
The feminine apparel business was stronger in February/March than in April but we are feeling better about these categories particularly the classic parts of the business.
We saw strength during the quarter in what we call the impulse apparel area which is geared at the older millennial customer women aged roughly 22 to 30 although the junior business which is aimed at the younger millennial customer continued to be weak.
Private brands continue to perform well throughout the store providing newness exclusivity and value.
Amongst our strongest private brands have been Hotel Charter Club and Bar III which as you'll recall just launched last year.
Our new Ideology brand which is geared to the active customer was recently launched and is doing very well.
Geographically sales were also strong across the country although the southern markets in general continued to outperform including markets in Florida Texas and Hawaii.
But it is important to note that we also saw strength in markets not in the south like Cleveland Ohio Columbus and Long Island.
This demonstrates to us the power of My Macy's.
We are working hard to figure out how best to tailor our offering locally and the results are paying off market-by-market.
Average unit retail in the quarter was up 8% with units down about 4%.
Gross margin in the quarter was 38.8% or 30 basis points below last year.
Merchandise margin was flattish with last year.
We have year-rounded on the impact of free shipping but the growth of the omnichannel business continued to put some pressure on gross margin in the quarter.
But keep in mind that's great news.
The more business we can do omnichannel and on macy's and bloomingdales.com the better for the bottom line.
And in fact you saw that with the increase in the EBIT rate which we'll talk about in a minute.
Inventory at the end of the quarter was up 6% driven by an increase in in-transit merchandise.
Inventory net of payables which adjusts for the in-transit was up 3% below expected sales to the second quarter.
Expense in the quarter was $1 995 000 000 or 32.4% of sales.
This is 1.1% above last year in dollars but 110 basis points lower than last year as a percent of sales.
Relative to last year credit was the biggest factor favorably impacting expense with a $43 million benefit this year versus last.
As we explained at the start of this year we expect credit profitability to increase by $15 million to $20 million for the full year and that it would vary greatly by quarter.
I'll talk more about this later but the first quarter was consistent with the higher end of our annual guidance.
We also benefited in the quarter from $12 million in lower depreciation and amortization expense.
Offsetting some of the favorable variances relative to last year was higher expense related to our investments in our Internet and omnichannel businesses higher selling expense due to the higher sales $16 million in higher pension expense and the year-rounding on last year's $12 million gains on the sale of our share of The Knot.
Operating income in the quarter was $391 million 18% above last year.
And as a percent of sales operating income was 6.4% up 80 basis points over a year ago.
Interest expense in the quarter was $112 million slightly below last year.
Book tax expense was $98 million or 35% of pretax income.
This was below the annual expected tax rate of roughly 37% due to settlements during the quarter.
These settlements were expected to occur sometime during 2012 and therefore our expectations for the annual effective tax rate has not changed.
Net income in the quarter was $181 million and the average share count on a diluted basis was 423.7 million shares.
During the first quarter we utilized $214 million in excess cash to buy back 5.4 million shares.
We currently have $1.1 billion of authorization remaining.
Our earnings per share on a diluted basis was $0.43 up 43% over last year.
Moving on to cash flow.
Our cash flow from operating activities was $265 million versus $67 million last year.
There are 5 major variances between the years that together make up the almost $200 million increase in cash flow from operating activities.
They are one the higher net income; two last year we made a pension contribution of $225 million in the quarter; three tax payments and the reduction in deferred taxes together were approximately $246 million unfavorable to last year.
This is a result primarily from the big increase in profitability in 2011 and resultant higher extension payments.
Four inventory net of merchandise payables was $118 million favorable this year versus last year; and fifth the reduction in prepaid expenses was due to the use of the Lord &amp; Taylor proceeds which we had put in escrow at year end to purchase 2 key parcels of our flagship location on Union Square in San Francisco.
The leases on these 2 parcels which face Geary Street and Union Square itself were close to expiring and we felt that controlling them was critical.
As a result our capital budget will go up by approximately $100 million but the expected cash flow should not go down since this purchase was funded through the escrow fund as well as proceeds from the sales of closed stores.
That purchase explains why CapEx in the quarter was so much higher than a year ago.
Largely due to this the cash flow from investing activities was $138 million unfavorable to last year.
But cash flow from operating activities net of investing activity was still $60 million over last year.
During the first quarter we repaid $795 million of debt and utilized $214 million of excess cash to repurchase the 5.4 million shares.
And at the end of the quarter we had $1.9 billion of cash on the balance sheet which is $739 million more than we did at the end of the first quarter a year ago.
So all in all it was another great quarter.
We demonstrated again the sustainability of our good results as well as the earnings and cash flow potential that flows from strong sales performance.
As to our outlook for the rest of the year we are staying with our earlier guidance of approximately 3.5% comp store sales growth for the remainder of the year or 3.7% for the full year when you include the first quarter's actual sales results.
As a result our annual earnings guidance also remains at the $3.25 to $3.30.
We feel great about the quarter.
But remember it is only the first quarter.
Also as previously mentioned CapEx is now expected to be approximately $950 million although next year it will return to this $900 million level that we had previously discussed for 2013 and beyond.
For the second quarter in specific we're assuming sales growth to be consistent with the 3.5% guidance with May expected to be a little higher and June and July a little lower due to the shift of Mother's Day.
The gross margin rate in the quarter is expected to be flattish even with the pressure from higher net delivery expense.
SG&amp;A is expected to increase more in the second quarter relative to last year than it did in the first quarter.
This is primarily because the credit profitability is only expected to be up slightly versus last year unlike in the first quarter.
Remember that we are year-rounding big increases in credit profitability last year in the second quarter and even more so in the third quarter.
In fact in the third quarter credit profitability is expected to be lower than last year by approximately $40 million to $45 million.
But again for the year as a whole we're still expecting a $15 million to $20 million increase in credit profitability.
We feel great about our performance and the outlook for the company.
As Terry said in the press release "We are as excited about the future as we have been about the significant progress we've made over the past few years." We continue to see such potential to increase sales and profitability from our 3 key strategies: One My Macy's which continues to offer so many ongoing opportunities to better tailor our assortments to local needs; two omnichannel.
This is really changing the face of retail providing us with so many interesting ways to better satisfy customer demand; and three MAGIC Selling which is allowing us to increasingly differentiate ourselves amongst our direct competitors.
Having sales associates with stronger selling skills and product knowledge combined with managers who are learning to be better coaches is clearly paying off.
Our team is working together in unprecedented ways and we are investing in growing the business strategically.
I've heard so many sports analogies in our meetings lately talking about our progress whether these analogies come from rowing soccer baseball football or even basketball.
But regardless of the sport the key is that we are winning and we are all committed to continuing to build on our strong performance.
And with that I'll open the call up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Go first to Michelle Clark of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you update us on the competitive environment? And specifically I know it's difficult to quantify but how much comp lift do you think you saw at $0.01 in this quarter? And was there any change in trend as of late? Well I think the key thing is in markets where we're competing against Penney's we have seen an uptick in business.
To your point it's hard to quantify how much.
But clearly we are getting a benefit from what's happening there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the renovation at Herald Square that is underway.
Can you tell us what you saw there in terms of disruption? And how big is Herald Square as a percent of total company revenue? Could it have an impact on the comp? Well it will have an impact on the comp but I would say it's relatively small and it has been considered as we've given guidance and plans for the year.
We do think there will be disruption over the next 4 years.
We're obviously doing everything we can to minimize it.
But there will be big chunks of square footage taken out at various points.
So it has some effect on the total but not enormous.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you provide us with an update on what you're seeing in terms of product costs? Maybe differentiate between the first half and second half of this year? Yes.
I mean I think as we get to the second half of the year we are expecting to see some relief in terms of product costs.
And much like last year we were strategizing what to do when costs were going up.
We're doing the same thing in reverse.
But like last year it's really not until later in the third quarter where that would even begin to impact us.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly Karen can you just discuss with us your appetite for buybacks? You mentioned $1.1 billion remaining in the authorization.
Could you complete that this year? We had not quantified exactly how much stock we will be buying back.
But the idea is to use our excess cash to buy back stock.
So frankly you'll have some model and see from there but there's -- you get some sense in the first quarter as to our buyback intent.
Our next question will come from Liz Dunn Macquarie Capital.
I guess first question just the inventory increase that we saw.
Can you just discuss that and how it sort of ties into your omnichannel efforts and when we could potentially see greater efficiency in inventory? Yes.
I mean if you think about it the inventory net of payables is up 3%.
So it's below what we're expecting for sales in the second quarter.
So we are funding the businesses that are doing very well so that we will be ready for May sales and beyond.
I think to your bigger strategic question I think it's going to take us longer to figure out where's the optimal place category-by-category to keep inventory.
So I think that is probably at least 2013 and perhaps longer before we'll see the impact from major strategic changes in inventory as a result of omnichannel.
Do you think that the strategies that you've employed already are adding greater inventory availability online? Are we already seeing that piece of the benefit? Because you seem to specifically talk about greater efficiency in sales per square foot.
Well what we're -- I'm trying to think about the end of your question sorry.
But as we've been adding more and more categories online that are available to be fulfilled from the store when they run out we are seeing that there's a big opportunity and increased demand.
In other words at macys.com we may not have been buying enough inventory to satisfy the demand that was out there.
So I think that's going to help significantly.
I'm not sure I understand the question though on the store.
Well you talked in your prepared comments about greater efficiency of inventory and greater efficiency in sales per square foot.
So it sounded to me like you were talking more about an ability to be more in stock in-store but I was wondering if the piece of it that was online had already benefited because you're already doing some door-to-store.
No that's just beginning.
And there's one more piece to this strategy the omnichannel strategy that we'll begin to test this fall which is today there are a big chunks of inventory that are in the store that are unavailable online.
We've never sold them at macys.com because there wasn't a good use of warehouse space.
But what we're going to start experimenting with is putting merchandise up on macys.com that you can buy that will be 100% fulfilled from the store which I think is going to be hugely successful.
When I talk about the store spacing more productive that's in many cases taking advantage of an opportunity to perhaps take some inventory off the floor use the direct warehouses and broaden the assortment that you're offering the customer on the store as opposed to using that space for inventory.
There's lots of things we're thinking about category-by-category of how can we use the square footage better where should we have inventory how much inventory.
It's really very very exciting.
Okay great.
And then one final one just want to understand the guidance.
So is it fair to assume that the third quarter earnings would be down year-over-year? We're not giving guidance by quarter.
But clearly having a $40 million to $45 million number to come up against is going to put a lot of pressure there.
And next we have Matthew Boss of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Karen excluding credit can you walk through SG&amp;A as we think about the second half of the year in 2013? And more specifically how should we think about the difference between the spending associated with the rollout of omnichannel infrastructure versus the maintenance of the initiative in 2013 and beyond? Well I can't help you with your first question.
And your second question I'm not sure I even understand.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the question is the spending that's rolling through SG&amp;A and has been over the last couple of years related to the omnichannel rollout.
How should we think about that spending as we are -- as we have the initiative in...
I mean for the foreseeable future we will be investing and growing the omnichannel business.
Now I think it's important to keep in mind though that we're also committing to reaching the 14% to 15% EBITDA rate.
And so even last year and again this year where we are investing and growing we're doing so without hurting the bottom line profitability in total.
So I think the key thing to keep in mind we do expect to continue to invest in growth.
But we're also expecting to improve the EBIT rate the EBITDA rates of the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question with the underlying core merchandise margin rate flattish today how should we think about the aggregate gross margin as we begin this cycle the rollout of omnichannel in the back half of next year and as the initiative progresses into later innings and more so around the inventory management opportunity? You mean the back half of 2013? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Matt it's too early to be forecasting margin 1.5 years out.
I think the key thing to keep in mind is we think there is huge opportunity as I said to improve the inventory productivity which should help gross margin.
So for example one of the things that were putting in place this summer is a logic that when we are pulling inventory from either a warehouse or a location we'll pull it from the place that's least likely to sell that item at regular price which should help margin.
But it's premature to be forecasting exactly what that will do although I'm pretty sure it's going to be positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question.
Any upcoming fall merchandise initiative to be watching for in the stores? And do your buyers believe we might be in the first inning of a real turn in Women's traditional? Well we're hoping so on the Women's apparel side.
It may be too early to claim victory there yet but we do feel very good about what we're seeing in terms of regular price selling of the new goods.
We'll move on to our next question which comes from Michael Binetti of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I guess on the comp guidance as we think about the 3.5 guidance for second quarter could you help us maybe just dimensionalize what you expect for AURs in the quarter versus units? It is significantly different than first quarter? And then the same question for the annual number I guess just a little bit of help on how you're thinking about that with the guidance you gave us.
Yes.
I don't really have a forecast for that.
There's different ways of getting to that sales number.
But I do expect AURs to be up this year.
But beyond that I can't give you a specific number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just moving down I guess to the gross margin line a little bit more color on the merchandise margins.
As we think about all the puts and takes on that line is the -- the comps just the business changes can you help us think about how you see the merchandise margin specifically flowing through the year as you roll off the higher input prices for apparel but probably the AUR boost diminishes as we move quarter-to-quarter here through the year? I think all I can say is stick with the guidance of we expect the gross margin to be flattish for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess on just a different topic one thought is -- you mentioned that you saw some competitive responses in the markets your overlap with JCPenney.
Are there time -- it seems like you should be doing better during discreet time periods like when you have promotional events like a holiday sale.
And obviously the April calendar really didn't have any with the Easter shifting into March and Mother's Day into May.
I mean do you feel like that's a better environment where you do have more promotions in the months around a discreet holiday like that with that brand -- with JCPenney's not really promoting via price point stimulus during holidays like you would be? I think the best thing to say is that we are seeing a pickup pretty much across the board but I'm not going to get into specifics day by day.
And next we have Paul Swinand with MorningStar Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask just about the credit portfolio.
I know you're saying you're lapping several big increases.
Are you noticing any difference in statistics from the online customer and their uptick of credit or use of credit or the way they use your card? And is that affecting the portfolio outlook at all? Not really.
The penetration on macys.com has done well as has bloomingdales.com.
Overall we're seeing pressure on our penetrations or usage of our card we think in part due to the challenges of getting new accounts approved with the increased regulations coming out of Washington.
But I don't see huge differences in trend there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's still a pressure.
But is there a chance that lets up as you lap that in the late half of the year? No I don't think so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just trying to follow-up on Michael's question about the units and AUR.
It seems like if your inventory is well controlled your units have to be down a little bit.
But as you plan the back half of the year are you actually going to be a little light on units? And are you going to plan that up? Or do you think the units will be tight in the back half of the year? Well the truth is this -- you have to look at it category-by-category and business-by-business.
So I can't give you an overall comment.
But I promise you our merchants will make sure we have plenty of units to satisfy the demand.
And next we have Deborah Weinswig of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you walk through some of the initiatives related the millennial customer? And what do you think you -- in terms of the differences between the older and younger millennial what do you think are driving some of the differences you're seeing there in terms of performance? On the millennial customer our belief is it starts with product.
And so we're -- as you know we're spending a lot of time rethinking how we get that product selected to the stores how fast we can accelerate our whole process to pick out the inventory and find the fashion.
As you know we also launched for our 3 last year as a way of using the private brand market to help as well.
And as I said earlier that's doing very well.
Again that's geared towards the older impulse customer.
But the first priority is product.
We're also reviewing all of our marketing to make sure we're reaching this customer through the appropriate way.
Obviously digital and the whole social space is a big part of that.
And we're also reviewing a lot of the store environment trying to make it more friendly to that customer given the research we've done on his and her needs.
The reason I think the junior's business or the younger millennial business is doing less well is in part the market overall perhaps competition.
But also I think we just needed to sort of reload that strategy and start over.
So I think a year from now we're going to feel a whole lot better about the junior business but it may take a while to redo that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regards to MAGIC Selling training obviously as the Macy's story continues to evolve especially the omnichannel how are you going back and kind of I guess retraining your sales associates to maybe get the word out to customers? How is that process taking place? Well we're going to continually train and develop and add new components to the MAGIC Selling training and product knowledge work that we're trying to do.
As you might imagine it takes a long time to change behavior and change culture.
But we think we are making huge progress there.
And our Net Promoter Scores are going up considerably which we do believe is part of that.
So Deb I guess I could say it's just going to be a continual process and we're thrilled with the progress we're making.
And we do think it makes a difference in the store experience.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then not to dive into one single marketing campaign but I was pretty intrigued with the -- I think it was the Brazil Brazil Brazil campaign? If you could maybe elaborate on some of the results from that? Well it's frankly just beginning.
But early read is it's extremely exciting.
It actually hasn't completely launched yet so you're early.
But if you go into any of our stores across the country you'll see Brazil whether it be products that actually came from Brazil which is doing very well in-store or if it's products from our normal vendors that's inspired by Brazil.
So we've got a little bit of everything and I'm very excited about it.
And next we have Charles Grom from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the 2Q comp cadence by month I'm a little bit surprised you expect May to be above the 3.5% range.
Should we kind of read into that that you guys have bounced back from the 1-1 in April? Or is it just the earlier Mother's Day that you expect to kind of help you guys out? Well not to sound offensive but we were thrilled with our April performance.
So there was nothing that was bad about April.
So it was clearly -- the April number was all a result of shift Easter the major cosmetics events as well as the later Mother's Day.
We expected it we planned it we told you and there was again nothing bad about April.
May has the benefit of the Mother's Day shift so I'm surprised you wouldn't expect May to be better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So at the end of day it has bounced back? I wouldn't call it bounced back but okay.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just curious your thoughts on the consumer obviously a lot of volatility inter-quarter but you guys have a lot much better data than we have at our disposal.
Just wondering here if you could give us some thoughts on kind of what you think about the 4-4 relative to your plan and kind of your overall thoughts of the consumer.
Well I mean the 4-4 was clearly above what we had expected and that makes us feel very good about the consumer and frankly the market share that we're gaining given the competitive environment which by the way we've been doing for the last couple of years.
So it's hard to ferret out what's the consumer and what's -- our strategy is working.
But we feel good about what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked a lot about -- like site-to-door but when do you guys anticipate rolling out site-to-store-to-door? And when you think about them combined what do you think your inventory turns could look like down the road? It still looks like it's a real big opportunity for you guys.
Well it is a big opportunity.
But unfortunately I can't give you a number yet because it's one of those strategies you really have to think about category-by-category-by-category and we've not done that yet.
We're just at the beginning stages here of even understanding the demand potential from that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then on site-to-store-to-door that's not a 2012 event? Well the site-to-store-to-door has 2 pieces one is when the site is out of stock on something using store inventory to satisfy that demand.
What happens today in most categories is if we run out of the inventory at one of the D2C distribution centers you can't buy it on Macy's or bloomingdales.com.
We're beginning to roll out the functionality category-by-category and we're frankly accelerating that rollout because so far it's been so successful of using store inventory to satisfy demand online.
The piece that we haven't done yet and we're going to start to test hopefully this fall is for goods that macys.com never even bought but that are in the store.
That's a little trickier but I think there's huge demand that can come from that.
So we would never have those goods in the D2C warehouses.
It would only be fulfilled from store but you still have the opportunity to buy it from your mobile device from your PC at home or your iPad or what have you.
So I think that's very exciting but again premature to be quantifying the real upside.
Research Division</strong> And are your inventory systems do they speak to one another? Are they on one platform at this point? Or are they still separate systems? Well no.
And in fact one of the things that we've been talking about that's included in our capital spending is the capital to improve the omnichannel communication across macys.com and the stores similarly bloomingdales.com and Bloomingdale's.
So I would say today the systems are not with a need to be to fully take advantage of this.
We've got lots of work arounds but it will be much more efficient once these systems get build over the next couple of years.
But again it's not stopping the strategic discussion.
And next we have Bob Drbul of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I have is on the overall macro environment was -- is there a factor -- or what was the biggest factor for you guys for you to decide not to raise guidance? I mean was there one thing that you would call out or a concern that you would call out that you are most mindful of as you look at the remaining parts of the year? No.
The only thing I would call out is the first quarter and I think our guidance for the year was more aggressive than usual.
But I don't know that there's any factor per se Bob that impacted that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question is from Q4 to Q1 can you talk a little bit about -- has there been a change on the trend at Bloomingdale's at all? Has it remained very strong? Or has there been a slowdown at all that you would call out or anything from that perspective? I would say Bloomingdale's has continued to be very strong.
So I'm not sure there's really any major callout there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question is can you talk a little bit about the home business the way you're planning home and maybe big-ticket trends and some of those items within the business? Big-ticket has been unbelievably strong and we think it's going to continue.
And next we have Paul Lejuez of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Paul Lejuez Nomura.
Two questions.
One just wondering how the Brazil promotion or focus I should say ties into the My Macy's localization strategy.
Will all stores stress Brazil the same way? Or will you alter that by market and by stores within market? And then just second just wondering how you've thought differently about your marketing plan given the state of the competitive environment with JCPenney changing its pricing architecture and how you've changed your marketing dollars and focus.
I think the key thing is on the marketing strategy.
We're winning.
And as our marketing people look at our strategies and spending for 2012 we're sticking to our program and we think that's the best way of continuing to win.
In terms of the Brazil in My Macy's while we are putting Brazil across the country we are doing some tailoring by market by location mostly in terms of size of the Brazil campaign.
Obviously some markets will be bigger and more outsized than you would expect.
But again we think this is something that will have appeal across the country.
Research Division</strong> So Karen you never changed your marketing spend or focus once you heard officially what JCPenney was doing? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> How come? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> Why not? I'm just wondering why there hasn't been kind of a shift on the fly maybe you smelled the blood in the water maybe go after them a little bit harder than you would have otherwise.
I think we were going to go hard after them before.
And next we have Adrianne Shapira of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Karen you've cycled -- you've delivered 2 great years of spectacular beats and raises on sales and margins.
And now as you're continuing to make progress on the 3-pronged strategy and obviously some share up for grabs on the competitive landscape where you sit now in terms of productivity and EBIT margins where do you think -- where do you see the biggest levers of opportunity this year relative to your guidance? I'm hesitating.
I'm not 100% sure I see what you're asking.
But I think the key thing is we think we're going to continue to perform on the sales line and drop a lot of that profit and cash to the bottom line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess my question is basically where is the line item where do you think there's probably room for greater upside than others? I think with us it always starts with sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is you've previously spoken about an EBITDA margin target of 14% 15% well on track to get there probably sooner than expected.
As you think about again the changing competitive landscape and the spectacular online growth does that prompt you to think differently about long-term EBITDA margin targets? No.
I think as I've said to people that we have a game plan to get it to the 14% and that it will require new thinking to get to 15%.
So I think that's where a lot of this omnichannel strategizing should help us.
And we'll see.
But at this point our game plan is let's get to 14% and then we'll figure out 15%.
And next we'll go to Bernard Sosnick of Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> You've outlined very impressively how Macy is changing and benefiting from omnichannel retailing but there are also external events going on at the same time.
And I'm wondering if you could give us some thoughts on Amazon's idea of getting into the higher end of apparel retailing? Yes.
The only thing I would say and we're obviously -- we watch Amazon very closely.
They're as much a competitor as Penney's or Kohl's or anybody else in terms of people we keep an eye on.
I would say that in most of the businesses that we carry the in-store experience is still very very important to our consumer.
And I think it will be very challenging for a pure-play Internet company if we do what we need to do in-store by the way to keep up with technology and make the stores better and better places to shop to compete.
That doesn't mean that they won't do business but I think that in fashion businesses having stores is still going to be a competitive advantage.
Research Division</strong> I would agree with that.
You're also the largest customer for each of your most important vendors.
But if these vendors were to sell online to Amazon and initial prices looked different than at normal retail that could complicate matters.
What are your thoughts on that? Yes we really -- I think it's premature to start discussing that.
Obviously we're watching the competitive environment but at this point we feel very good about our positioning.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Jeff Stein of Northcoast Research.
Karen 2 questions quickly.
One given the strength that you saw early in the spring season in sell-through I'm a little bit surprised that your gross margins merchandise margins weren't a little bit better.
Can we assume that perhaps maybe you've stepped up the level of promotional activity to try to take a harder swing against JCPenney in the first quarter? Bad assumption.
If you think about a strong first quarter selling frankly it helps your margin in the second quarter when you would've been clearing the goods that you sold in the first quarter.
Also you all need to keep in mind that while all the focus in February and March was on the positive from the warm weather we actually did much less additional warm weather business in the first quarter than we lost in cold weather business from last year.
So clearing the cold weather goods when the weather was so hot was what was costly.
Got it.
Got it.
Okay.
Let me turn it around and ask just one more question which is let's assume you're picking up some business from JCPenney.
Do you have any strategies that you're thinking ahead about regarding how to hold on that customer? Because clearly they're losing right now but their plan I'm sure is to try to get that customer back in some way shape or form by their merchandising changes.
Are you making any changes in the segment of your merchandising mix that would tend to overlap with them to try to hold on to that customer that you're gaining now? I think that the easiest answer is as you might expect we've got strategies to make sure we keep winning.
And that's really all I'm comfortable saying.
And next we'll move to David Glick of Buckingham Research Group.
Karen just a question about the Center Core business.
Obviously that's been a big driver for your comps your average unit retailers your productivity and investors seem to constantly worry that that momentum could slow down.
You called it out certainly as a strong performer in Q1.
Are you continuing to see that momentum? And if the apparel business improves is there a trade-off there? And is that -- will that potentially slow your momentum? Well it hasn't happened yet so that's really all I could say David.
We feel great about the newness in the category and it continues to do well.
And we are investing to continue to grow.
So we're hopeful that that momentum will continue.
Just one quick follow-up on home.
Is there any update you can give us on how you're thinking about your vendor structure given the uncertainty over the Martha Stewart brand? No.
Nothing I can say there.
And now we'll move to Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Priya Ohri-Gupta Barclays.
Just one quick one.
You've had some recent ratings improvement this quarter and I wanted to see if you had the opportunity to sort of start testing out the commercial paper market.
And if so could this potentially be a source to help support some of your share repurchase activity going forward? We're beginning to test to see if it potentially could be a source.
Having said that because of our cash position it's not something we would be doing this year.
So we are beginning to test to see if in fact that would be available to us now.
And it does appear at this time we have no further questions.
So Ms.
Hoguet I'll turn the conference back over to you.
Great.
Well thank you.
And again if anybody has additional questions Matt Terry and I are all available to take calls this afternoon.
And thanks for your interest.
And again that does conclude today's conference call.
I would like to thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's Inc.
Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's Conference Call.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K.
We are pleased with our second quarter results.
While our sales trend was challenging in June our business rebounded in July and our profitability for the quarter was strong.
As we head into the important back half of the year we feel great about our merchandise and marketing strategy our store execution and our increased omnichannel capability.
We are positioned very well to continue to grow our market share while improving profitability.
Our second quarter sales were $6.1 billion up 3% over last year on a comp basis.
While below the first quarter trend the trend in the 2 quarters was almost identical on a 2-year basis.
And for the spring season in total our comp store sales were up 3.7% slightly above our original guidance of 3.5%.
Our sales in the second quarter were very strong in watches handbags cosmetics textile furniture and mattresses.
Men's in general had a tougher second quarter than first but was still very strong on a 2-year basis.
Women's apparel was weaker overall in the second quarter although we were happy to see some positive momentum in the juniors business.
We hope this bodes well for our Millennial strategy.
Geographically our business in the second quarter was generally stronger in the south than in the north.
But in addition to southern markets like Florida Hawaii and Houston we saw good sales performance in non-southern markets as well like Oregon Cleveland and Colorado.
As we had anticipated Herald Square was a drag on our sales growth because of the disruption from the remodeling work.
Part of the new shoe floor is expected to open up this weekend with the entire shoe floor plus a few key areas of the main floor including fine jewelry to open in stages over the next 90 days.
It really looks spectacular and it's going to do so much to take the store and the whole Macy's brand to a whole new level.
Our team which includes our merchants our store associates and our design and construction organization is doing an absolutely fabulous job managing this very large and complicated project.
Bloomingdale's had a tougher second quarter than first quarter but as with Macy's July was stronger than June.
Both macys.com and bloomingdales.com had great quarters and we continue to be very excited about all the omnichannel initiatives.
Through technology and the Internet we have opportunities to accelerate our growth by linking all the various places and ways customers can shop today.
This enables us to deepen our relationship with our customers which is key for building loyalty.
Macy's currently have 280 stores fulfilling orders either from other stores and/or from macys.com.
We will be at 290 stores by the end of the month and that's where we will stay for the remainder of the year.
This 292 though compares to just 23 locations at this time last year.
We are also now utilizing the fulfillment logic which is directing our orders more intelligently.
The logic is based primarily on filling orders from stores or warehouses with the lowest sell-through of a particular item as well as the distance to the customer's home.
Gross margin rate in the second quarter was 41.9% up 10 basis points over last year.
Our merchandise margin was up a bit more than that but the impact of more delivery expense with the omnichannel growth as you know is negatively impacting our gross margin.
We ended the quarter with inventory up 1.8% although on a comp basis it was up 3.6%.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was just over $2 billion up 1.7% versus last year.
As a percent of sales SG&amp;A was 32.8% down 50 basis points versus last year.
We benefited in the quarter from $16 million increased income from credit $11 million in lower stock-based compensation cost and $11 million lower depreciation and amortization relative to a year ago.
These positive variances were offset by $19 million higher pension expense as well as the continued investment in our Internet growth and omnichannel capabilities.
Operating income in the quarter was $554 million up 9.5% over last year.
And as a percent of sales operating income increased 60 basis points.
Interest expense in the quarter was $105 million and book taxes were $170 million or approximately 38%.
For the first half of the year the tax rate was approximately 37% which is consistent with our annual guidance.
Net income was $279 million up 16% over last year.
During the quarter we utilized $374 million in excess cash to buy back 10.6 million shares.
This resulted in an average diluted share count in the quarter of 470 million shares.
Year-to-date we've utilized $588 million to buy back approximately 16 million shares.
EPS on a diluted basis in the second quarter was $0.67 up 22% over last year.
Cash flow from operating net of investing activities was $245 million which is $120 million lower than last year.
On the positive side we produced higher net income lower inventory net of payables and last year we had made a pension contribution.
Those positives though were more than offset by $167 million higher CapEx which was driven in large part by the purchase in the first quarter of the portion of our Union Square flagship store in San Francisco as well as higher cash taxes due in part to our increased profitability.
In the first half of the year we also utilized close to $1.5 billion of our excess cash in large part to the stock buybacks that I already mentioned $797 million for debt repayment and $165 million in dividend.
At the end of the quarter though we still have $1.6 billion of cash and cash equivalent which is $109 million more than we did a year ago.
As I said earlier we feel very good about our performance over the past 6 months and we are as ready as ever for the fall season.
We are expecting comp sales to increase by about the same amount in the fall season as it did in the first half of the year approximately 3.7%.
Given the Christmas calendar which has 2 extra days relative to last year between Thanksgiving and Christmas combined with our optimism and our fourth quarter strategy we are assuming a higher comp increase in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter.
This guidance of 3.7% comp store sales for the full year hasn't changed since our last conference call in May.
However as you saw this morning we did increase our earnings per share guidance for the year to $3.30 to $3.35.
Part of that increase in guidance is due to stronger credit performance.
And remember that consistent with prior years our guidance excludes any costs associated with the miscellaneous store closings that could happen at year end.
Remember these costs are primarily noncash.
Now as you are modeling the third and the fourth quarters please do remember 2 items in addition to our assumptions for the lower sales growth in the third quarter relative to the fourth.
The first relates to credit.
Remember that last year in the third quarter we had a $108 million increase in credit income over 2010.
This related to the true-up in our profit share formula.
However this year we are anticipating credit income to be roughly $35 million to $40 million below last year in the third quarter.
We do expect the credit income in the fourth quarter to exceed last year.
But for the fall season in total we are expecting credit to be a drag.
For the year end total however we expect credit income to exceed last year by more than the $15 million to $20 million increase that we had projected earlier in the year.
The second factor to keep in mind is tax rate.
Last year you'll recall that our tax rate in the third quarter was 24% due to favorable tax settlement that happened to occurred during the quarter.
We do not expect to have settlement anywhere close to that magnitude this year in the third quarter.
And keep in mind that our annual guidance for the effective tax rate remains at 37%.
However because of these factors we believe we are likely to have a third quarter that is down relative to last year in earnings per share but this is expected to be more than made up in the fourth quarter.
We are expecting a flattish growth margin rate in the back half of the year.
Although with the growth in our omnichannel business and the free delivery it may be down slightly.
We expect SG&amp;A as a percent of sales to decline in the fall.
But in dollars the percent increase is expected to be higher than it was in the spring.
Part of this relates to credit which I've just talked about and part also relates to the 53rd week this year.
We are expecting depreciation and amortization to be approximately $542 million this fall or $1 055 000 000 for the full year.
We are still expecting CapEx of approximately $950 million this year.
As noted by our assumed 3.7% comp sales and our increase in the earnings guidance we are confident in our strategy and as importantly in our team's ability to execute them.
Clearly we are not operating in an ideal macroeconomic environment.
Issues like unemployment and housing prices continue to be on the minds of our customers.
But we believe that Macy's and Bloomingdale's still have the opportunity to grow sales and earnings by listening closely to our customer and delivering exactly what they need when and where they need it.
That is the underlying principle behind our core strategy.
There are some things we cannot control but many that we can and that is where we are concentrating our energy and resources.
So through the back of this -- back half of this year you will hear us talk about the fresh and unique merchandise we have to offer the great value we are delivering to customers the fun and creative marketing that will drive interest and traffic the skill of our associates in engaging shoppers and the cross-channel initiatives that will help us to grow sales and improve the turn in our inventories.
These are the factors that give us confidence in our business and that we believe will help us to continue to capture market share.
As you know we had terrific success in sales and earnings growth in both 2010 and 2011.
We think we are on track for significant incremental improvement again in 2012 as well as in the years ahead.
Thank you as always for your interest in Macy's.
And now what questions do you have? [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Matt Boss from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Anne McCormick on for Matt Boss.
I just have a quick question about the online opportunity from omnichannel.
You said that you're going to be in 290 doors in the fall versus 23 last year.
Can you see just some changes we'll see on the website and what categories will see the largest increase in SKUs? Well I think what's going to happen is the online assortment will just be available in more places.
And what we've learned is that in many situations our inventories were too tight on the dot-com -- in the dot-com buys.
So we're able to satisfy more demand.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one other question.
On the juniors business you saw some improvement in July.
Are there any initiatives in place there? Are there -- is there anything that we should be watching for in that category? Well as you know we've put in place a new Millennial organization as well as the beginnings of Millennial strategy that are focused first and foremost on improving the product offering both in juniors as well as in Impulse.
I mean as you know the juniors had been an underperforming category for a while.
It's still not one of the best performing category.
But during the second quarter we did begin to see some improvement.
So we're hoping that that's a positive momentum particularly as we go to back-to-school.
We'll take our next question from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just one quick question.
Merchandise margins seemed like -- from your comments like they're up nicely.
But I'm guessing you still had some cotton pressure running through the P&amp;L those kind of things on the private brand side.
Could you call out any puts and takes on the merchandise margin for us in the quarter? And then I have a quick follow-up.
No.
We really don't give any detail on the merchandise margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I assume that it was pretty good just based on your comments there if I -- and I look at your guidance for slightly negative gross margins in the back half it sounds like adding up again part of this from pretty aggressive focus on e-com and the free shipping mix there.
But again the merchandise margin looked pretty good.
Inventories are pretty clean.
You should have some input cost rolling off.
And then the incremental pressure from -- I'm guessing store-to-door with the 290 store shipping is a lower margin sale than shipping from a distribution center.
It seems like there should be from upward pressure on the gross margin.
Could you maybe help me straighten that out a little bit for the model for the back half? I think all I can tell you is that our guidance as best we can tell you is flattish with the possibility of some downward pressure.
Beyond that unfortunately Michael you're on your own.
Our next question comes from Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Karen I'm just wondering if you could maybe discuss some of fulfillment issues if any or glitches that you might be seeing as you begin to fill orders from the stores for your online customers.
Well there is always going to be examples of individual customer orders where a mistake happened.
But by and large our fulfillment rates coming out of the stores are getting very close to the same accuracy and on-time rate as that in the distribution center.
So again I can't tell you that one of you didn't have a bad experience or somebody didn't.
But in total we are doing a spectacular job in fulfilling the orders out of the stores frankly better than I thought we could do.
So it's really quite encouraging.
Good.
And one follow-up question.
I'm wondering if you could just talk a little bit about your inventory plan for the back half of the year and maybe tie that into where you ended at Q2 and reconcile the difference between comp inventory and total inventory which was a bit lower.
Yes I mean total inventory includes merchandise in transit.
Many of you will remember we talked a lot about that last year.
And in the month of July it was actually below a year ago.
So that's really the biggest difference there.
And so as we go through the fall I think we may end up being able to improve our inventory turn this fall but I am not going to forecast exactly where we will be at the end of the year.
Okay.
But it would sound to me like if that is your goal then your inventory should probably end up being in the mid-3% or lower range above your goal levels if you're able to achieve your goal.
Would that be fair? I mean yes that's in the ballpark.
Our next question comes from Bob Drbul with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Joan Payson on for Bob.
I guess first off maybe if you could talk about what you've seen so far in terms of early reads on back-to-school or if you have initiatives in place around that on top of what you're doing with the Millennials program? We'll talk about August when we get through the month.
Obviously juniors doing a little bit better in the second quarter may be a positive sign.
So we feel good about our strategy.
But again no comment until we get through the month.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of what you've said on the tourist traffic could you just give some additional color on what that looks like at Macy's versus Bloomingdale's and if there are any categories that have been more impacted than others? Yes.
I mean I think the tourist business is still helping the company overall but perhaps not by as much as it did earlier in the year.
So again we still are doing better in the tourist market than the non but again without as much benefit as we saw earlier in the year.
Our next question comes from David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
Karen I'm just wondering if -- since you have started to roll out these doors on the store-to-door initiative I'm wondering what kind of benefit you're seeing in your e-commerce business to date whether that helped drive the improvement in July.
Well remember that we just -- there are 2 pieces with the fulfillment door.
The lion's share of what they're fulfilling are orders from other stores not from dot-com.
But starting in the spring we did begin to expand out the categories on the website that in essence would be backup inventory in the stores and that has been growing.
But most of the growth is coming out of the dot-com inventories themselves.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up Karen on Bloomingdale’s.
I'm just wondering if there are certain categories that drove the slowdown in Q2.
And what do you attribute the improvement you saw on July? Is that something we should fill optimistic about continuing into the second half? On one hand I'd say that's probably the challenge of discussing sales monthly.
I'd rather focus more on the quarter than what happened in July.
And we'll see if the categories at Bloomingdale's are really similar stories to Macy's in terms of where the strengths and weaknesses have been.
Our next question comes from Paul Swinand with Morningstar Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick follow-up questions here.
On the tourist spending could you comment perhaps whether there is any difference between Asia South America and Europe? Is the decline driven by Europe? I think we would all assume that it's driven by Europe but I don't have any statistics in front of me to tell you that's definitively the case.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just again following up on the inventory.
On a unit basis is your inventory actually down since prices and input costs have been up? And should that rectify itself as we move to the back half of the year next year with prices starting to normalize? I don't have the unit inventory in front of me.
So I don't know how to answer that question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll have to ask a more innocuous question.
How about on -- in the beginning of the year we talked about some of the initiatives and they're ongoing.
And you said you had a lot of other levers to pull in 2012 for whether it's training or My Macy's merchandising strategies.
Could you just give us an overview of what has worked? And then looking ahead are there new things that you found out that you will pull in the future that you could give us some color on? It's a hard question to answer quickly.
But if you think about our 3 key strategies My Macy's M.A.G.I.C.
and omnichannel we've made improvements on all 3.
If I think about My Macy's as I've talked about in the past we've been working on a major initiative for the last 9 months or so called My Macy's 2.0.
Some of the things that we've done has been improve the processes to both increase speed and reduce complexity.
We've been working on talent development for some of the positions that were created through My Macy's and we've done some work specifically to improve the merchandise assortment at the small store that have been very successful.
In terms of MAGIC Selling we've been working on building coaching skills and ramping up our efforts vis-à-vis fast feedback especially on the very busy days that we have like one-day sale and that seems to be paying off because our Net Promoter Score has gone up 4 points over spring of 2011.
So that seems to be working.
And in omnichannel we've been talking about some of the changes in terms of getting -- making sure that a customer has availability of inventory across the company whether she be shopping online or in-store.
So there's a lot going on there.
So again we've been talking about that all morning.
Our next question comes from Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> What kind of CapEx is required at the store level to allow a store to become part of the store-to-door a program? And also I'm thinking -- just wondering what you're thinking is in terms of the right number of stores to be included in this program? Are you talking about store fulfillment? Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's a small amount of capital and it is more expense obviously to have these people available to fulfill throughout the store.
So the capital is relatively small.
And we frankly don't know what the right number is.
We think that 292 may end up being close to the right number but we'll know a lot more once we get through Christmas.
Research Division</strong> And what kind of expense increase occurs at that store level? Again I don't have the specific number but that's all factored into our projections for the fall.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just lastly can you just quantify the disruption from Herald Square and also talk about the volume lift that you're expecting once everything is complete? We really haven't quantified the disruption only because you'd have to make a prediction on what the store would have done have you not remodeled.
But the Herald Square has clearly been a slight drag on Macy's Inc.
sales this spring particularly in the second quarter and as we go through the fall expect it to be less of a drag although it still will be somewhat so.
Our next question comes from Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk to when the fulfillment logic actually went into place and how much do you think that helped your merchandise margin performance in the second quarter? We started testing it earlier in the second quarter.
So it's fairly recent.
So at this point it's way too early to be able to give you any sense of what it's going to do for the margin.
It remains to be seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you said the combination of both lower sell-through and distribution benefits right? Yes.
But the biggest factor is the sell-through.
Research Division</strong> All right okay great.
And then when you take a step back and look at the second quarter and sort of the horse-shaped -- horseshoe-shaped performance on comps with June being so soft I mean what do you think kind of happened in the June period which obviously had a better start and a better finish? Yes honestly I don't know.
It may be that we misplanned June particularly vis-à-vis the July 4 holiday.
I honestly don't know.
I mean it just looks to us like the customer hiccupped because July sells a lot better but we'll see.
And clearly as we've said we had some concerns about the environment.
Our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> With regard to omnichannel efforts it's an attempt to coincide your efforts with how consumers wish to shop and the changing shopping methodologies.
Could you give us some indication of how omnichannel interlinks with your loyalty programs and efforts there? I'm hesitating.
The loyalty program that we have is at Macy's -- not at Bloomingdale's but at Macy's.
It's based on our proprietary credit card and so obviously have somebody shop regardless of the channel will help in terms of status on the loyalty program.
With Bloomingdale's they've integrated it more with the bloomingdales.com shopping with their new Loyallist program.
And that one is tender-neutral.
So again you can be a part of the loyalty program not solely by using the Bloomingdale's card and they've been very thoughtful in how they've integrated bloomingdales.com both in terms of earning points but also in terms of the delivery of those rewards.
Research Division</strong> What are your plans with regard to rollout of handhelds? Handheld devices to do what? I want to make sure I'll answer it properly.
Research Division</strong> Well Nordstrom is rolling out handheld devices to ease the shopping and provide inventory information to sales associates on the store enable credit cards to be used by the handheld devices to check out.
Yes.
Okay no no.
I want to make sure you were talking about that vis-à-vis iPad which we're using in a different way.
Of course we are experimenting with the handheld devices.
And in fact an important part of the shoe floor at Herald Square is going to be the use of a new device that should greatly enhance customer service on the shoe floor.
But again I think it's that kind of test that you're talking about also looking at iPads in many stores to help enhance the assortment.
So for example in a smaller store even some of our bigger store say in fine jewelry where we don't -- we may have a necklace but don't have the earrings to match can show it to the customer on an iPad.
So again that's not quite a handheld but it is a mobile device.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything that would make coupons incompatible with handheld devices? No it's just -- no it will depend on the device.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because one of your competitors said that they couldn't -- handhelds couldn't handle coupons.
I just wanted to be certain.
Well I maybe wrong but I believe it has to do with what you have to do with the handheld.
So it may require a more complicated handheld.
Our next question comes from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You're beginning to lapse some big AUR increases for the fall.
So what are your plans for pricing in the second half? And should we expect most of the second half comp to come from unit growth? The truth is you all need to remember that AUR is not necessarily related just to price.
We get AUR increases very often with changes in the mix whether it be categories or vendors.
Also as we roll out higher price point initiatives things like the Impulse strategy and also frankly with more regular price selling we get an increase in AUR.
So I want to make sure that we don't equate increases in AUR to price increases.
As you know this spring we've had about an 8% increase in AUR.
We think the fall AUR will be up but not by as much as it's been in the spring.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last quarter you mentioned women's classic as showing some signs of life.
I didn't hear any mention this quarter.
Can you just talk about what's happening in that business? Yes -- no.
I was I guess over generalizing about the women's apparel business in general.
We've had a very good spring season with some of the classic businesses most notably private brands like Charter Club and Karen Scott but the strength there wasn't enough to pull up the whole category to make it strong.
Our next question comes from Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Actually following up on Lorraine's question would you say that private label on exclusive outperformed national brands overall? Private brands and exclusives had a good quarter and a goof half of the year.
It's a very important part of what we're doing as you know.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
And then with strong online sales how have you found that that has impacted store traffic if it has all? Or has that actually driven more store traffic as consumers have looked online and then that's driven them into the store? Yes.
Interestingly what we're finding is that omnichannel or the online shopping is having a bigger influence on store sales and more and more people are browsing online and coming in store.
Others are doing the opposite.
So we don't actually track traffic but we are tracking how customers are behaving that buy.
And we are finding that this omnichannel shopping behavior is terrific for store sales as well as online sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think your guidance is for flat gross margins.
I don't know if you have provided some additional insights in terms of the stronger growth margins.
And then speaking with the online topic I think that the gross margins tend to be lower.
How should we think about the EBIT margins for online? Well at this point Deborah it's almost impossible to differentiate online from offline because how do you allocate things like marketing expense? But generally the online merchandise margins have been higher which offsets the higher delivery cost.
So from a profit perspective we believe that we're going to continue to be able to grow the omnichannel business and also increase the total profitability as a business at the same time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one last quick one.
I think that the RFID initiative will be in full swing on the third quarter on the basically replenishment goods as you think about 30% of sales.
When will that roll out for the fashion items? And how do you expect that to impact the third quarter as well? Well it's actually later than that in terms of the replenishment goods.
It's going to start this fall but really be in full swing next year.
And I think we're very optimistic about the replenishment side and then we'll roll it out from there on the fashion.
I don't know the specific timing.
By the way RFID is also going to be an important part of the shoe floor.
So interestingly you would think you would not be testing technology in your biggest store but we're about to do so.
Our next question comes from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Karen I'm wondering if can you talk about traffic versus ticket.
You mentioned an 8% increase in the average unit retail here for spring.
Does that include online? And if you have separate statistics for the stores that would be helpful as well.
I don't have separate statistics because again more and more online offline to us is the same thing.
And with the 8% increase in AUR this spring the unit per transaction has been down about 3% with the transaction down slightly.
Research Division</strong> And do you track traffic in your stores versus transactions? Or do you use transactions as a proxy for traffic? We use transactions as a proxy for traffic.
Our next question comes from Liz Dunn with Macquarie Capital.
I have a question about the omnichannel efforts.
Amazon is testing same-day delivery in one market.
I wonder if you could think out to the future.
Is that something you think you could be poised to do from your own stores particularly since they have to open up a new distribution center to do so whereas you now have 290 stores kind of shipping directly? Yes absolutely.
I mean in essence we have warehouses all over the place which if we decide is an important need for the customer I think we're going to be very well positioned to do so going forward.
At this point I can't tell you we've concluded it's a good thing to do but you're absolutely right.
We're much better positioned to do so than they will be.
How many store associates do you need to add to be able to do store-to-door like for the 290 stores? I don't know how to answer that.
The truth is we add hours and it depends on the anticipated volume.
So I don't know a specific answer.
But again that's all been factored into our plans for the fall.
Our next question comes from Wayne Hood with BMO Capital.
I had a couple of questions.
One the industry as you know continues to move to free shipping.
And do you see yourself kind of sticking to that $99 minimum? And if you do have to follow them down so you don't cede at least some market share what impact do you think that might have on your gross margin maybe in the back half of the year but even on a longer-term basis? For now we're comfortable where we are.
I can't tell you that we will always be.
But interestingly when we went to $99 we were able to increase the average order size and it helped our business.
So we'll see what goes from here.
Is there a hurdle rate where you would say below $50 it doesn't make sense to have free shipping? Or what is the...
Remember when you're in a store and we do Search &amp; Send it is $50.
Okay.
And I guess my second question kind of relates to this as well if you were to look at the best in class and replenishment those that have a store-based kind of model and you compare your distribution cost or fulfillment cost to that best in class how much do you think you would have an opportunity to take cost down as you get better at it? I'm not sure who would be best in class and I'm not even sure it wouldn't be us.
And will we be able to do it more efficiently going forward? As you might imagine we'll try everything we can to do so.
But I have no way of projecting for you what that could mean.
Remember that we are pretty focused on taking cost out wherever we can.
So trust me if there's an opportunity there we'll find it.
Okay.
And my last question relates to merchandise margin.
You mentioned they were up greater than 10 basis points in the second quarter.
So as you think about the fall season are you expecting it to be up close to 20 or 30? Or just put some color around that please? Well I mean again what I always said is that we're expecting gross margins to be flattish although with a recognition there might be some risk from the added cost associated with delivery.
We'll take our next question from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about the Millennial strategy and how you're thinking about it? You had many important strategies whether it's localization MACIC Selling.
Where does it fit in the strategy framework? And what other changes do you see coming about because of that? And just on the online optimizing inventory by channel how do you see inventory growth changing the cost of the channel distribution now? Those are 2 tough questions.
On the Millennial strategy obviously it cuts across all 3 of the major strategies My Macy's M.A.G.I.C and omnichannel.
You can't talk about Millennial without talking about omnichannel.
A big portion of the strategy relates to engaging better on our selling floor with the customers that come in.
So there's a whole store initiative as part of that.
But I would say the key part of the Millennial strategy in its first phase -- or the first priority is all around product and developing new brands and finding brands that fit the various customer profiles that the team has developed.
So we're very excited about that very excited about the product that we're producing ourselves like Bar III for example which has been doing extraordinary well but also the products that some of our key vendors will be making for us starting next year.
So a lot more to come on that but we're very excited about it.
Your second question relating to optimizing inventory that's still in front of us.
Right now we've been more focused on satisfying customer demand wherever the customer may be standing.
And next on the list we'll be trying to tackle this very complicated subject of where is the best place to have inventory to satisfy that demand best for the customer but also with an eye towards profitability.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question as a follow-up question from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about how you're thinking about your full price selling or the couponing strategy into the key value seasons like back-to-school? Obviously you've got a big competitor who's sticking by a strategy of not couponing and we've seen recent results deteriorate there.
We saw some comments from Coach earlier that said that when they pulled coupons there was a very clear message from the consumer.
So I'm just curious if you could give us kind of your view of how you're approaching the promotional strategy for the fall and into holiday please? Yes I mean if you think about it our strategy has been working for 3 years.
So don't expect any changes from us in terms of the couponing or the level of promotion.
We think what we're doing is working and we're going to stick with it.
Our next question is from Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Karen just a few follow-ups.
I know we talked a little bit about merchandise margins.
I'm just wondering if you could give us some color.
Is that a function of better markup or markdown? Better -- and you're talking about the second quarter? Research Division</strong> Yes what we just saw in terms of the merchandise margin being above the gross margin.
Yes.
It's a little bit of both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the guidance you had given about comps being better in the fourth quarter versus the third I'm wondering in light of what you saw in as you mentioned maybe the second quarter that June saw softness the function of planning how should we think about the third quarter? And any color you can give us in terms of the cadence and the events in terms of the monthly cadence in the quarter given that it sounds -- it looks as if you're up against tougher comps earlier on the quarter versus late? As we look at the months in the quarter they're relatively the same for the third quarter.
So I don't -- and again in terms of major changes in holidays or promotions there is nothing in the third quarter.
Fourth quarter obviously we have the additional time between Thanksgiving and Christmas which will help the month of December.
But in terms of the third quarter I really don't see much there.
It appears we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
Great.
Well thank you all.
And if you have other questions feel free to call me or Matt or Sara.
And again thanks for your interest in Macy's.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy’s Inc.
Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome.
I'm Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K.
Before beginning my commentary I want to take just a moment to express our sympathy empathy and gratitude to so many people whose lives were impacted by Hurricane Sandy.
Our sincere sympathy goes to the families of the 100-plus people who died as a result of the storm and the countless others who were injured.
Our hearts also go out to the millions of people who suffered significant property damage including those who lost homes cars and many of their possessions not to mention electricity telephone and cell service as well as access to transportation.
I know that a number of people on this call were among them.
And lastly thanks to the Macy's and Bloomingdale's teams in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions who have shown such incredible resiliency in preparing our facilities for the storm helping to get them up and running so quickly after the storm and for taking good care of our customers in the process all while dealing with the disruptions in their own personal lives.
Our associates did a phenomenal job getting our stores reopened.
Our logistics team has been able to get merchandise delivered to our stores and to our customers with little delay.
And our New York-based teams overcame numerous obstacles to get their jobs done.
I have to express particular thanks to the finance organization that worked together in new ways to make sure that we could get the quarter closed on schedule.
That said let's move on to the business at hand.
The third quarter was another good one for the company.
Not only did our sales performance continue strong but we were also able to significantly exceed our earnings expectations and beat last year's $0.32 per share by 12.5%.
As you know we had expected a down quarter so we are very pleased with these results.
As you will recall we had spoken in each of our conference calls this year about the challenges of year-rounding on last year's $108 million increase in credit income and the 24% tax rate in the third quarter.
But we were able to more than offset these with a combination of better-than-expected sales gross margin rate and SG&amp;A.
I'll discuss each of these factors as well as our cash flow and then I'll talk about our key planning assumptions for the fourth quarter.
Sales in the third quarter were $6 075 000 000 up 3.8% over last year or 3.7% on a comp basis.
We continued to see strength during the quarter in Center Core men's and home categories with some encouraging trends in parts of women's apparel.
Amongst the strongest performers were watches handbags fragrances women's suits men's shoes men's tailored clothing home textiles luggage mattresses and furniture.
The weaker performers included juniors tabletop and housewares.
Within women's apparel we saw trend improvement in the classic parts of our assortment.
The cold weather categories experienced great sell-throughs in the quarter when the weather was cold but we didn't see enough of that weather during the quarter.
Geographically the business trends were very similar across our Macy's regions with the exception of our Houston-based South-Central region which had a particularly strong quarter.
Our macys.com business continued to be very strong.
We are getting more and more traction from our omnichannel initiatives which are enabling us to utilize inventory in our direct-to-customer warehouses and in 292 store locations to satisfy customer demand both online and also in stores.
I have to say that it is getting harder and harder to define Internet versus store sales given all the ways customers are now researching products as well as shopping and purchasing.
But what is so great about our performance is that we're doing better than anticipated both in store and online.
Each channel is driving sales in its own channel as well as helping to drive sales in the other channel.
Bloomingdale's performance in the third quarter was consistent with their recent trend.
As with Macy's Center Core men's and parts of home showed the most strength.
The women's apparel area was the toughest for Bloomingdale's.
During the quarter bloomingdales.com continued its very strong performance and the outlet stores during the third quarter produced sales that were better than expected.
During the third quarter our average unit retail or AUR was up approximately 4.5%.
As anticipated it is moderating from the larger increases earlier in the year.
And we expect that to continue to happen in the fourth quarter but it is still quite healthy.
Remember that AUR increases do not equate necessarily to price increases.
AUR increases can result from mix changes such as the mix between regular price and clearance selling jackets versus tops and higher price points versus lower.
In the third quarter our transaction count was up as well and our unit per transaction continued to fall below last year.
The gross margin rate in the quarter was 39.6% up 20 basis points over last year.
We were very pleased that we were able to more than offset the higher costs associated with free shipping with a higher merchandise margin.
We ended the quarter with inventory up 0.7% and flat to last year on a comp basis.
This is lower than what you might have expected given our fourth quarter sales assumption.
We planned inventory this way purposely because we wanted to enter the fourth quarter with lower stock levels than in the past so that we would be able to flow in more newness for the holiday season.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $2 078 000 000 up 3% over last year.
And as a percent to sales SG&amp;A was 20 basis points below last year.
SG&amp;A relative to last year benefited from $13 million in lower depreciation and amortization but was negatively impacted by $23 million in lower credit income $17 million in higher retirement expense and the continued investments in our omnichannel strategies.
Relative to what we had expected the biggest improvement but not the only improvement in SG&amp;A was in credit income.
Our credit penetration in the third quarter increased 20 basis points over last year which is a positive change in trend from the spring season when our penetration was down 80 basis points.
Losses continue to reflect improvement as well and our delinquency is also in good shape.
Operating income was $325 million in the quarter up 12% over last year's $291 million.
As a percent to sales operating income was 5.4% up 40 basis points over last year.
Interest expense was $103 million in the quarter versus $108 million last year and tax expense was $77 million as compared to $44 million last year.
The tax rate this year was 35% as compared to the 24% last year.
This can be attributed to several normal course state tax settlements that happened to fall into the third quarter of last year.
Net income in the quarter was $145 million; and earnings per share on a diluted basis was $0.36 up 12.5% over last year.
Share count on a diluted basis was 407.9 million shares down 5.5% as a result of our buyback program.
Through the third quarter we have bought back 26.3 million shares utilizing $991 million in cash.
We have $361 million remaining in our current authorization.
Our year-to-date cash flow is strong as well and we ended the quarter with $1.3 billion of cash on our balance sheet.
During the first 3 quarters of this year we generated cash from operating activities less investing activities of $274 million which is $119 million higher than last year.
We've utilized this cash as well as cash on the balance sheet for a combination of our stock buyback debt reduction and the increased dividend payout.
This balanced approach is what you can expect from us and our credit ratios were very strong at the end of the quarter and improved versus a year ago.
So all in all it was another great quarter for Macy's and we are well positioned for the fourth quarter.
Were it not for Hurricane Sandy we would be even more optimistic about the fourth quarter than what you're hearing today.
There are 4 key factors that are contributing to our confidence.
One our gift strategy is reaching a whole new level.
Our merchants and our planners have learned from the experiences over the past 2 years and have been able to work with our vendor partners to make our offerings better than ever.
Exclusivity and fashion content have been increased across all categories.
Localizing the assortments as a result of our My Macy's strategy has also enabled us to strengthen our gift offering.
We believe that our marketing both brand and promotional is very powerful this year; and we're utilizing social media more than ever before to communicate our message.
And our stores team is executing our gift strategy with greater precision.
Our floors look terrific and our associates are better engaging with customers due to the ongoing MAGIC Selling training and coaching.
The second key factor is our omnichannel strategy which as I mentioned a few minutes ago is gaining traction.
We currently have 292 Macy's stores in place to handle fulfillment of orders compared with only 23 stores at this time a year ago.
And our dot-com and store organizations are far better aligned than in prior years on key merchandise and marketing initiatives which will clearly help drive our business.
The third factor relates to cold weather goods.
And although the weather forecast remains to be seen we believe we have a large cold weather opportunity.
And as I mentioned earlier the business has been encouraging when the weather has been cold which bodes well for those categories for the fourth quarter.
And the last factor but not the least relates to the calendar.
This year's calendar is the most favorable fourth quarter we can have with 32 days between Thanksgiving and Christmas 2 more than a year ago.
However as I just mentioned given the impact of Hurricane Sandy this optimism at least for November is somewhat muted.
We do anticipate that our November sales will be negatively impacted by the storm.
But we still believe that the 4.2% comp increase for the quarter is achievable and that 4.2% for the fourth quarter will result in a 4% comp increase for the fall season.
As we think about the storm's impact it's greater than just the lost sales from the closing of stores.
Customers in the most directly impacted areas of Long Island and New Jersey have other priorities right now.
Transportation issues are making it challenging for customers who do want to shop to get to the stores.
And to some degree the receipt of merchandise was interrupted.
We are spending unplanned dollars to make sure that our stores recover and are staffed so that we can both help customers and also get the new merchandise to the selling floors as fast as we can.
Additionally in an attempt to help customers in the impacted areas both Macy's and Bloomingdale's will be extending the duration of promotional events just this week and Macy's is adding a recovery coupon for customers who've experienced damage to their homes.
We hope that these efforts will help us recover some of the lost sales.
All of our best thinking has been incorporated into our guidance for the fourth quarter.
With the strong third quarter we are comfortable increasing our earnings guidance by $0.05 to $3.35 to $3.40 for the year which translates to roughly $1.94 to $1.99 for the fourth quarter.
This compares to $1.70 last year.
That $1.70 excludes $54 million of income related to the sale of store leases to Lord &amp; Taylor last year partially offset by $29 million in store closing costs.
The net of these 2 items is $25 million or $0.04 a share.
The guidance for the fourth quarter of this year assumes no costs associated with store closings because these decisions haven't yet been made.
Here are a few additional details to help you as you're thinking about and modeling the quarter.
First while we are expecting a comp store increase of roughly 4.2% in the fourth quarter this increase is planned very differently by month with November expected to have a much lower sales increase than the other 2 months of the quarter.
This is due primarily to the calendar but also to the impact of the hurricane.
Also remember that this quarter has an extra week in January this year.
So the spread between total sales growth and comp growth which assumes the same number of weeks year-over-year in the comp guidance the gap between total and comp will be a lot higher.
We are expecting total sales in the quarter to be up approximately 7.2% or 3 points more than the comp guidance.
Number two we believe there will continue to be pressure on gross margin as a result of the free delivery.
And so we are maintaining our guidance for flattish to down slightly gross margin rate for the fall season or the combination of the third and fourth quarters.
Three SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter will continue to benefit from the strong credit results.
We are estimating credit income for the fourth quarter to be approximately $25 million to $30 million higher than last year.
This benefit versus last year will be offset in part by the higher retirement expense and also will be offset by the continued investment in our omnichannel strategy and of course when you're looking at dollars the impact of the 53rd week this year.
Four included in this guidance for the quarter is interest expense of approximately $112 million.
Assuming we complete the debt tender that we launched last week there will be additional interest expense associated with the premium pay.
Its size will depend on the amount of bonds which are tendered.
For example if $500 million of the maturities for which we have tendered are redeemed the pretax cost would be approximately $100 million.
Remember though that future quarters will benefit by the lower interest expense as a result of this tender refinancing and we will have locked in favorable interest rates while extending our maturities.
Assuming the tender and the subsequent debt issue are completed we will be more specific as to the impact.
Five the tax rate in the fourth quarter is expected to be approximately 37% bringing the year's effective rate to approximately 37% consistent with our guidance all year.
Six we still anticipate making a $150 million pension contribution in January and our capital expenditures are still expected to be $950 million roughly this year.
We are very proud of our team for the results that we have delivered since our My Macy's One Macy's transformation.
Our performance has been consistently strong in absolute terms and relative to our peer group.
I note that this third quarter was our 11th consecutive quarter of increased sales and earnings at Macy’s Inc.
This speaks volumes about a the strength of our strategies and vision; b the rigor and determination in our execution on the front line; and c our ability to continually improve the business adding growth on top of growth.
We have no intention of deviating from this path of growth.
Hurricane Sandy was a terrible disaster and has affected our business in the short term.
We are sensitive to the interruption it has caused to our customers and to our associates.
But we along with our communities are bouncing back and look forward to a very good fourth quarter.
Also before taking questions I want to make sure you saw in our release that beginning in fiscal 2013 we will no longer be reporting monthly sales.
I have mixed feelings about this because it will make conversations with our investors much more challenging mid-quarter.
But with so few companies reporting it doesn't make sense to continue.
We will work hard to continue the dialogue with you but the discussions will have to be more about strategy and longer-term direction rather than current business trends.
And now I'll open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now take our first question from Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just on Sandy when you look back at some of these prior mega-storms that have hit different parts of the country did they tend to postpone sales altogether? Or does the consumer curtail purchases altogether and kind of what your expectation for the next couple of months here? It's a complicated question.
We think some of it is lost most is postponed and in some cases unfortunately it creates new demand for goods given destruction.
It's a question of the timing.
One thing different about this hurricane than Andrew or Katrina it's frankly more like Wilma which was a lesser impact but closer to the holidays.
So we're trying to look at that and how the business rebounded.
But frankly this is hitting a far more dense -- densely populated area.
So we're just sort of looking day by day and seeing what happens.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
I'm living through it myself.
So just separately on the Internet strength relative to your comp guidance in the fourth quarter it looks like it continues to grow.
Are you assuming that that trend will continue and that your fourth quarter comp guidance assumes about half of that is going to come from online? We don't split the guidance that way.
But our dot-com business is doing very well and getting incremental growth now that it's able to pool inventory to satisfy demand from these 292 stores.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then...
That's the strategy for the Internet.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then can you just remind us that the basket size delta between brick and mortar and online and also how the merchandise margins look between both? You know what it's -- in terms of the average order or the average transaction it is higher online but I don't have the specific numbers in front of me.
And in terms of margin it is higher online as it has been.
So that's obviously good for the business as well.
And we'll now go to Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> First question just talking about the online business.
Are you noticing any acceleration of buying where customers are closer to stores? Or is more of the growth coming from people that are outside of store areas maybe discovering or rediscovering the brand? In the case of Bloomingdale's where we have fewer stores our best online customers do live near the stores.
So there has been some growth in other markets but it's really more coming from the markets where we currently have stores.
In the case of Macy's because we have so many stores it's much harder to tell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any regional comments...
As online customers are going to be the ones that are also nearby a store.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any regional comments on driving the online? Is it more city-based or urban-based where people have better Internet connections or...
I have not looked at that so I don't know.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then I wanted to ask about one of your prepared remarks.
You said that you're going to be flowing more inventory in the fourth quarter.
And I was wondering why -- it seems like I've been hearing retailers say that for years and years.
Is there a reason that you flowed less last year and now you're lapping a different flow strategy than last year? Well we've consciously try to bring more goods into the stores to help us transition to the spring and have more newness as Christmas approaches and for our post-Christmas strategy.
So it is a conscious change from what we've done in the past.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything structural or anything technology or anything in the way you -- in your strategy that has enabled you to do this better this year? Or is it just a switch in what you want to do? Frankly it's a decision that if we were taking input from sort of our My Macy's team a lot of it came back that we didn't have enough newness as we went through the quarter particularly in December and for the fifth week of December which as everyone knows has become very important.
And we'll now go to Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Karen curious what percent of your online sales are now being generated from mobile devices? And has that changed appreciably as we've kind of moved through the year? Well I don't know the specific percentage but yes it's growing significantly.
And also we're actually looking at mobile devices split between tablets and smartphones.
So we're seeing a lot of growth in the tablets more so than smartphones but we're seeing lots of shopping on smartphones.
So we actually are divide -- as we think about channels it's more than just 2.
You've got to really think about the offering on the smartphone the tablet as well as the desktop or laptop device.
Right.
And Karen can you talk a little bit about the SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter? I'm kind of curious you gave us a little bit of guidance on the top line.
I'm wondering what kind of SG&amp;A dollar growth should we expect given the extra week? We're really not giving specific guidelines for that but we do expect there to be leverage in the SG&amp;A as a percent of sales.
And we'll now go to Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> And in addition to brand launches any changes to the store experience or marketing as part of the Millennial strategy? I think the big focus right now has been product.
And as I've said so many of those new brands won't be launched until spring.
So you really will not see the dramatic change there until next Christmas.
We're also testing quite a bit of new technology in about 23 stores not specifically for Christmas but just in general to see what works best in the Millennial shopping environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how has the store labor model changed in the 292 stores that are being used for online fulfillment? Well we're obviously adding hours so that we have people doing the fulfillment business.
But I'm not sure what you mean beyond that.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of is there -- are there more people on the floor? Do -- the customers that are there feel like they're getting a better kind of customer service experience? I'm just wondering if there are kind of other additional benefits as well.
No actually we're using non-selling people to do the fulfillment so that they're more specialized and can get out and pick the goods.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last question in terms of -- I know you recently announced the launch of the Finish Line shops.
How should we think about this in the broader context of merchandising? Well I think the key thing is Finish Line is a strategy similar to what we did with Sunglass Hut which has been an enormous success.
Sometimes there are categories of goods where we perhaps can't get the most wanted vendors or product from those vendors.
And also there's a specialized selling model that works well with these lease departments.
So where we see white space and see a category where we don't think we can get the best assortments we think it's a great model.
And again we've been really successful on the Sunglass type front.
And we'll now take our next question from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Karen just wanted to ask about the gross margin longer term.
There's a lot of puts and takes going on right now with free shipping but should be some longer-term benefits of in-store fulfillment and you've seen some higher merchandise margins.
So just how should we think about that in 2013 and beyond? Do you see more opportunity for gross margin expansion? Well I think 2013 will be early to see what I'm about to explain.
But my hope is that in 2014 and beyond we will have figured out how to optimize the inventory across our channels and be far more productive and improve turnover.
And as you know improved inventory turnover leads to higher gross margins.
So that would be my hope.
And again then we would be able to offset what I think will be continually higher free shipping costs.
But those strategies to optimize the inventory will probably take until '14 to get underway.
And we'll now go to Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> Karen you said there were 23 test stores with regard to the Millennial.
Could you describe a little bit what your objectives are there? Well we're trying to see if there's ways of using technology whether it be through mobile devices or visual mannequins digital mannequins and things like that that can help us better service that customer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one other thing with the omnichannel strategy how are you dovetailing that with your learnings from dunnhumby? Well it's all the same customer data so it all goes into the -- we're looking at a Macy's customer across channels.
And we'll now go to Matt Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Karen with omnichannel going live this quarter can you -- I mean clearly it sounds like a pretty positive response thus far.
How should we think about holiday opportunity from an assortment perspective? I know you're testing some new items online.
And then in 2013 anything new from the initiative that we should think about? I'm not sure what you mean by omnichannel going online this quarter.
That is not new.
It's just we're expanding the number of fulfillment stores.
Research Division</strong> Right the 292 stores going live.
And then I think you're testing some items online that were previously just in store for the holiday? Correct.
What we're trying to do is figure out what's the best way of offering merchandise to customers and satisfying demand.
So I hope that we find that when we put store-only items onto the Internet we're able to sell them obviously a lot more profitably than if we also carried that inventory in the stores.
So we'll see.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the women's front you've seen a recent improvement in the category noting classic and traditional particularly.
What do you attribute some of this improvement to? And any initiatives you have in place that you're excited about for 4Q and next year? Well I think a lot of it has to do with product design putting newness in.
I think often people think of traditional or classic as not being new.
And I know as we looked at our own private brands starting with Charter Club all of the feminine apparel we really made an effort as you know to retool the lines and offer that classic traditional customer more newness and it's really paying off; true for the market brands as well.
We'll now go to Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So if I can just try to piece together a couple of comments you made on gross margins so I understand the guidance.
Is there -- it sounds like there's an incremental headwind to think about in the fourth quarter from the e-commerce side and that's maybe why we're thinking negative in the quarter.
Is that maybe a change in the free shipping threshold or something to look ahead to? No there's no change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you -- you mentioned earlier just a quick comment about having some challenges with getting product to the stores after the -- and we've heard other places where there've been some problems in the supply chain of getting product to stores around the hurricane-affected areas.
Can we assume that based on your confidence in November and in the fourth quarter that you're seeing that already start to improve over the last week as the storm starts to wane a little bit? Absolutely.
And I'm sure there will be some specific item or vendor where we're struggling to get the goods in and won't.
But overall we think we're in great shape after just 1 week of recovery.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally if I could just ask you about the Millennial strategy a little bit.
You guys announced a strategy a few months ago.
I think you had a couple of early successes in the monthly reporting that you were commenting on.
And then October was a little bit more choppy and that perhaps could have been because of the weather.
But maybe just an update on how you're feeling about the early phase of that strategy? Well let me be clear.
The Millennial strategy we're working on we never expected to get benefits until midyear next year.
So we got better results in the junior category in specifics for a couple of months.
But that really frankly wasn't due to the strategy.
So the new strategy really will be more in place for next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any early learnings you could tell us about? I think the key thing is as we expected product is key.
And I think as we get the assortments right we will see a great lift in that business.
And we'll now go to Liz Dunn with Macquarie Capital.
Just a few questions.
First in terms of Sandy the disruption you mentioned in terms of getting product in is that more -- is that just into the city of Manhattan? Or can you just provide some additional color on...
No.
Well our facilities have been open almost the whole time.
But some of the vendors had difficulty with their facilities getting the goods to us to get to our stores.
So it's been frankly more an issue of making sure the vendor could ship it to us.
We've done a really good job.
Our logistics team's been phenomenal at working with our vendors to help whatever we can to get the goods to us and then to our stores.
Okay.
In terms of the Millennial strategy I'm sorry I know we've all been asking about it.
But as I'm looking at your holiday announcement it seems as though you've got a lot of products that are maybe targeted towards that customer.
Is that the right way to think of it? Like it's a longer-term initiative but you're cognizant of the fact that last year you've got a Millennial customer in the store when you opened at midnight.
And so you're offering them free headphones with a $75 purchase and that kind of tailoring your door busters for lack of a better word to that customer? Yes I would say tailoring more so.
More so than you had in the past.
Okay.
And then my final question the changes to Herald Square so far look fantastic.
Are there any things in what you've seen so far that could be potentially rolled out in obviously smaller scale to more stores? And is there more of a willingness from vendors to invest capital than maybe has been the case over the last couple of years for shopping [indiscernible]? I think it's too early to really judge.
A lot of the technology we're using on the shoe floor we actually have already rolled out.
So for that that's the case.
But I think we've got a lot more to learn but we'll see.
Currently the early results are very encouraging.
And we'll now go to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can just talk about SG&amp;A for a second.
Was there any sort of shift in expenditures between 3Q and 4Q? I'm just trying to look at the differential and the growth rate between the 2 and understand why there's -- without the -- without -- excluding the impact of the extra week why there's such a bigger -- a big differential in the growth rate between those 2 quarters.
There was a little bit of timing shift particularly in the marketing area but not enormous.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything else Karen that would be bigger in 4Q than 3Q that maybe I'm not considering? Not that I've thought of but I'll go back and look and see if I can be helpful.
And we'll go to Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Karen can you talk a little bit about the remodeled 34th Street.
The shoe area looks terrific.
The new in-store boutiques look great.
What are you learning from it? And how do you think about the rest of the chain CapEx? Any implications of what any shops could look like in other stores any enhancements? Well I guess I think it's too early to conclude anything about other stores.
Obviously we're thrilled with the early results of what we've got here.
And as the Luxe shops start opening between now and Christmas we'll have a better handle on that.
But we are very optimistic that not only will the store do great things and help the whole image of Macy's that we will in fact learn things that we can apply to our other certainly flagship stores across the country.
And with credit income going up a little bit are you seeing new customers? Are you seeing Big Ticket items on the crediting penetration moving higher? Well it's a couple of things.
One is our Big Ticket business is doing very well as I've been saying all along.
So that helps to some degree.
But we're also been able to open new accounts in the third quarter above last year which is the first time all year.
So I think it's greater usage from our customers it's more new accounts as well as the furniture business and mattresses being strong.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now go to Joan Payson with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned earlier that the Bloomingdale's outlets have been outperforming recently.
And was just wondering what you attribute that to and if there's any sort of change in your plans or acceleration of building those out at this point? No I think we've been working hard to try to get that formula right and the third quarter worked well.
So hopefully we're just getting better at running that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of tourist traffic which you spoke about a bit last quarter how has that been trending this quarter? And are there any segments of the tourist customer base which are stronger? Or how does it vary between Bloomingdale's and Macy's at this time? No the tourist business is still positively contributing to our comps but a lot less so than it was earlier in the year.
And we'll now go to David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
A clarification and a question in the guidance for Q4 you said that November to expect a lower sales increase relative to the Q4 trend.
That implies that you think you can bounce back and put up at least a slightly positive comp.
And then secondly the Center Core businesses were very strong in Q3.
And just wondering what you're seeing in the confidence level that you think that momentum which has been obviously going on for a few years whether that can continue through Q4 and into next year in areas like shoes handbags jewelry cosmetics? Certainly expect it to.
I mean the business has been very great for a long time but showing no evidence of slowing up.
And I'm not sure I understand your November question.
What I said was that November sales would be the way we planned it even before the hurricane was that the November sales growth would be less than that in December and January.
Okay.
The operative word being growth in November.
Yes.
And we'll now go to Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Paul Lejuez.
Karen just wondering if the Sandy impact that you've seen is really restricted to the Northeast and the affected states? Or if you've seen maybe some C&amp;N [ph] effect throughout the country? Well you had 2 things going on.
You had the C&amp;N [ph] effect with the storm but you also had the election.
So you know what I don't know is the real answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking next year just from a marketing perspective do you have anything planned as you think about JCPenney starting to get a little bit deeper into the home category come first quarter second quarter? Is there anything that you guys are preparing for just -- from a competitive dynamic? No honestly we've stuck to our strategies because they're working.
So I don't see any reason to change that at this point.
It's working well for now.
Ms.
Hoguet it appears there are no further questions in our queue.
I'll be glad to turn the call back to you.
Okay.
Well thank you all for your interest.
And if you have further questions feel free to call us.
Take care.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to Macy's Incorporated Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's call is being recorded.
And now it is my pleasure to turn the conference over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Karen please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you and good morning.
And welcome to the Macy's call scheduled to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2012 performance and to outline our key planning assumptions for 2013.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K.
As you saw a few weeks ago we ended 2012 very strongly with an outstanding January sales performance which was far ahead of our expectations.
We actually made up much of the November December shortfall and achieved a 3.9% comp growth in the quarter just short of our original guidance.
It was a good quarter and a very good year.
In fact it was the third year in a row in which we've produced very strong sales profit and cash flow.
We are clearly operating on all cylinders.
When we reorganized the company in 2009 we began instilling much more of a growth culture that is now beginning to take hold and our strategies are being executed very successfully.
Our 3 key strategies are still what we affectionately call MOM.
I'll talk more about each of these later on the call but just to list them now the first My Macy's.
This was actually our fourth holiday season since putting the My Macy's structure in place.
We continue to build on our success and find new ways each year to satisfy customers through greater localization.
This is so critical and frankly it cannot be emulated by the competition.
The second key strategy the O in MOM omnichannel.
This strategy offers so much opportunity for us.
We have been building these capabilities for years and yet there is so much more to come on this subject.
And three the last M MAGIC Selling.
We are improving the selling capabilities of our store associates while also empowering more local decision-making.
The momentum continues to build and we have a very long runway in front of us.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $9 350 000 000 up 7.2% over last year.
But remember part of this is due to the extra week in the 2012 calendar.
On a comp basis with the same number of weeks the fourth quarter sales were up 3.9% over last year.
The categories of business that were strongest in the fourth quarter were handbags watches shoes women's suits active men's overall home textiles luggage and furniture and mattresses.
And the weaker businesses were housewares and junior's.
Private brands also had a good quarter with particularly good growth coming from the Millennial classic apparel and home textile brands.
Geographically we performed best during the quarter in our southern markets as well though at some markets in other parts of the country such as western New York Oregon and Colorado.
Bloomingdale's had a decent quarter especially considering the fact that the Bloomingdale's stores were disproportionally hurt by Sandy given their geographic footprint.
Average unit retail increased approximately 4% in the fourth quarter with transactions up about 1% and units per transactions down about 1%.
As anticipated the increase in AUR did moderate in the back half of the year and we were very pleased though to see the number of transactions increase.
Sales transacted over the Internet were very strong up 48% in the quarter on a comp 13-week basis.
We are very pleased with how both macys.com and bloomingdales.com are helping us to both grow our customer base and also to increase spend with existing store customers.
We are benefiting from very large increases in traffic on the website but also in conversion.
The increase in conversion is particularly encouraging given the growth in mobile traffic where conversion does tend to be lower than on desktops.
More on this later.
Gross margin in the fourth quarter was 40.6% down 40 basis points versus last year.
Merchandise margin was up slightly in the quarter but the success of our omnichannel approach with the shipping costs impacts our reported gross margin.
Inventory at year end was up 3.3% on a comp basis.
This increase is below our first quarter expected sales.
It might though be a little bit higher than what you had expected.
This is because of a conscious decision to bring in more transitional merchandise into our stores so that they would be fresh for post-Christmas selling.
We believe in fact that this was a key factor behind the success in January.
SG&amp;A expenses were $2 004 000 000 in the fourth quarter or 3.7% above a year ago.
We benefited in the quarter from higher credit income which was $44 million favorable to last year.
This was more than offset by increased spending to fuel omnichannel sales the expense for the 53rd week and $16 million higher in pension and surf expense.
But as a percent of sales SG&amp;A in the quarter improved 90 basis points which more than offset the lower gross margin rate.
Operating income excluding store closing costs and impairments in the quarter was $1 396 000 000 or 14.9% of sales.
This is up 11% over last year or as a percent of sales up 50 basis points.
Store closing cost impairments and gain on sale of leases were a loss of $5 million this year as compared to an income of $25 million last year.
Interest expense was $106 million in the quarter and we booked an additional $133 million in the quarter related to the debt tender that we completed in November.
The tax rate in the fourth quarter was 36.6% approximately the same as last year.
Net income excluding store closing cost impairments and the interest expense associated with the tender was $818 million.
Average diluted share count was 399 million shares.
And EPS on this basis was $2.05 up 21% over last year on this basis.
Including the store closings impairment and the tender premiums EPS in the fourth quarter was $1.83.
The full year's results are actually quite similar to those in the fourth quarter.
Comp store sales increased 3.7% for the year.
We had a slightly lower reported gross margin rate due to the impact of free shipping.
We had good SG&amp;A rate improvement lower share count due to the buyback all similar to the fourth quarter.
And when you put all of these factors together for the full year operating income was 12% above last year excluding store closing costs impairments and gain on the sale of leases.
And as a percent of sales EBIT on this basis increased 60 basis points.
EBITDA as a percent of sales for the full year was 13.4% up 30 basis points over last year.
Return on invested capital was 21.2% up 50 basis points over last year.
Cash flow from operations net of investing activities was $1.4 billion.
And we utilized $1.35 billion of cash to buy back 35.6 million shares in 2012.
And we also doubled our quarterly dividend to $0.20 a share.
EPS grew 20% over last year excluding store closing cost impairments the gain on the sale of leases last year and the debt tender.
And our EPS on this basis was $3.46 which compares to our expectation that we said at this time a year ago of $3.25 to $3.30.
We are very happy with these results.
The consistency of our strong sales growth combined with improving profitability over the past 3 years is something of which we're quite proud.
As we look back on 2012 it was a big year for the company.
In addition to it being the third year of very strong financial performance we made some big steps strategically that are positioning us well to continue our good performance in the future.
Let's go back to those 3 key strategies MOM.
First My Macy's.
In 2012 we instilled renewed energy into My Macy's by simplifying some of the processes and executing some very successful strategies including warm weather Latino a small store prototype and what we call extreme growth stores.
Each of these and there are more would convince you I think that we will continue to gain benefits in future years from this focus on localization.
This organization and the processes we've put in place that enable us to localize our offering are truly giving us a sustainable competitive advantage.
The second strategy omnichannel.
In the fourth quarter we saw the beginning of the enormous opportunity in front of us from approaching our business from an omnichannel perspective.
We are working to provide our customers with seamless experiences no matter how they choose to shop with us and to utilize the strengths of each channel to satisfy demand and service the customers' needs better than we could if we didn't operate multiple channels.
It is really exciting and our team is embracing the new possibilities and working very hard to improve our capabilities and maximize the opportunities.
One area on which we're focusing lots of resources is how to best optimize the use of warehouses and our stores in an ever-changing fulfillment environment.
As you know we are filling many items that are ordered in our stores from the inventory either from other stores or from our online fulfillment centers.
At the same time we began in 2012 to fill orders that are entered online out of inventory in our stores.
We currently have 292 stores enabled to fulfill goods up from only 23 a year ago.
And by the fall of this year we expect to have a total of approximately 500 stores for filling orders.
We're finding that customers don't really care from where we pull the goods as long as we fill the order accurately and the delivery is timely.
We've built algorithms to help us determine from where to pull the inventory and we are learning more each day about how we need to refine these formulas.
We are really just scratching the surface here.
In fact in the future we expect these fulfillment locations will be key to offering faster and even same-day delivery and also will enable the customer to buy online and pick up in-store.
And our omnichannel initiatives extend far beyond fulfillment.
We are busy improving both our website and our mobile app to make shopping easier and faster.
We are taking new approaches to marketing that utilize digital technology and benefit from utilizing a 360-degree view of our customers' shopping behavior with us and we are collaborating on our merchandise strategies between the channels.
This is all very exciting.
But remember it all starts for us with great product and a great in-store experience.
Our merchandise acumen and our ability to run great stores are central to our omnichannel success.
The line between stores and the Internet is blurring so much that beginning in 2013 we are no longer going to break out our Internet growth when we report our results.
The third strategy the final M MAGIC Selling.
We are focused on training and coaching our associates to improve our engagement with the customer and our selling skills.
Our Net Promoter Score keeps improving indicating to us that progress is being made.
We're also working hard to encourage our store associates to think omnichannel.
This means selling customers merchandise that may in fact not be in that store whether it be out of stock or not even carried in that particular location.
It also means embracing the customer making a return.
These changes aren't easy but we're working hard to make them happen.
We also began in 2012 to formulate our Millennial strategy which includes active.
Active as you heard me mention a few minutes ago was one of our best-performing categories in the fourth quarter.
And as we move to 2013 we believe that will continue to build.
The Finish Line partnership is bringing added credibility to Macy's as a destination for this category and we're very excited about the very early results in our first store they converted.
We are feeling very good about our strategy and the assortment that the Millennial customer is going to start seeing later in 2013.
We are particularly excited about our product offering for the older millennial customer what we call impulse which is a customer for whom we frankly have not had as much to offer in the past.
By the end of 2013 we expect to have launched 13 new millennial brands at Macy's and expanded 11 existing millennial brands.
We believe we're laying the framework to make this a very important source of growth for us in 2014 and '15.
So let's now move on to our outlook for 2013.
As I have said repeatedly we feel great about our strategies and the momentum with which we're entering the year.
Our key planning assumptions for 2013 are pretty straightforward.
One we are assuming an annual comp increase of approximately 3.5% for the year on a 52-week against 52-week basis.
And I should mention that it would be approximately 30 basis points higher were it not for the conversion of the athletic shoe business to a leased operation.
While there are lots of calendar shifts by month this year resulting from the fact that 2013 follows a 53rd-week there's really only one major calendar shift between quarters but it happens to be between the first and second quarters.
Due to the timing of promotional events and how they fall on this year's fiscal calendar our first quarter is planned 2 to 3 points higher than the second quarter.
We are opening 3 Macy's stores in 2013: 1 in Gurnee Mills outside Chicago; 1 in Victorville California in Southern California; and a replacement store in Bay Shore on Long Island.
We're also expanding our Las Vegas fashion show store from Macy's by adding a new box which will offer an expanded men's offering.
And we're also opening a Bloomingdale's store in Glendale in Southern California and 1 Bloomingdale's outlet store outside of Chicago.
Total store sales growth is expected to be approximately the same as comp growth for the first 3 quarters of the year.
But remember the fourth quarter will have 1 less week than it did in 2012.
So as a result the total sales growth for the fourth quarter is assumed to be approximately 330 basis points below the comp growth in the fourth quarter.
For the year as a whole that difference should be approximately 120 basis points.
But again it's all happening in the fourth quarter.
Net-net we are assuming an operating income rate increase in 2013.
But I have to say that it is getting more challenging as our profit level rises.
Plus building our omnichannel capabilities requires an investment and these transactions do require higher incremental expense which as you know goes into gross margin due to the shipping cost.
We are still committed to and very much focused on exceeding the 14% EBITDA target rate in the near future.
We are assuming flattish to slightly down gross margin given again the expected growth in omnichannel transactions but we assume that we will be able to continue to leverage our SG&amp;A and improve as a rate offsetting any reduction in gross margin rate.
Included in the SG&amp;A are the following assumptions embedded for 2013.
Credit income is assumed to be approximately $10 million to $15 million better than 2012 in 2013.
We're expecting about $10 million less in depreciation and amortization than in 2012.
And our retirement expense including the 401(k) match is assumed to be approximately $5 million higher in 2013 than 2012.
We're assuming interest expense of approximately $395 million and a tax rate for the year of 36.95%.
We've budgeted CapEx for the year at $925 million and expect to make $150 million pension contribution during the year.
Embedded in our guidance is our ongoing stock buyback program.
And as you saw the EPS guidance is $3.90 to $3.95.
This would represent a 13% to 14% increase in EPS over 2012.
So that's an overview of our 2012 performance and our outlook for 2013.
Just to give a little bit of perspective consider how far we have come over the past 3 years.
Since 2009 we have added over $4 billion to top line sales.
We've added more than $1.2 billion to operating income.
And as a percent of sales operating income increased 340 basis points to 9.6%.
We've increased the return on invested capital to 21.2% 630 basis points over the 14.9% in 2009.
And our earnings per share grew from $1.36 in 2009 to $3.46 in 2012 or on average 36% per-year growth.
And as we have said repeatedly we have a very long runway ahead of us for further improvement within the strategic framework that has been so effective in revolutionizing our business.
You see this reflected in our 2013 guidance.
If I was to pick 2 words to describe Macy's Inc.
today they would be confident and determined.
Our very talented people continue to be very excited about what lies ahead.
We hope that you too share our enthusiasm for the prospects in our vision.
And now I'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Deborah Weinswig at Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how the Millennial strategy has changed the rest of your women's business and how you think about women's in the future? I think it's early Deb.
We're just as I said bringing many of these brands in this year.
But we do believe this is a customer we didn't previously serve and we think it will be very helpful.
We also think by the way that some of us older -- or at least I won't speak for you I'll speak for myself -- older customers may also like these Millennial assortments.
So I think it's going to be very exciting additions to our ready-to-wear floor.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then we're seeing many of your competitors or other department store retailers making big investments on the technology side yet you're guiding for SG&amp;A improvement.
And also we're not seeing a huge step-up in CapEx or tech.
Can you talk about how your approach has been different over the past few years and why you're positioned for SG&amp;A leverage in the future? Well we are investing just as aggressively than I think any of our competitors.
We are trying to be balanced and we think that that's possible in this environment.
And again with the sales growth being so high we are able to lever the SG&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question you've been one of the pioneers in RFID.
Can you talk about how you're utilizing the technology and what we should expect going forward? I think our 2 priorities relating to RFID the first would be replenishment.
And by this -- by the fall we're hoping to have roughly half of our replenishment business utilizing RFID.
Our stores will all be enabled by early in the fall and we're just waiting as the vendors come up and begin to tag the goods.
But replenishment is roughly 30% of our business.
So this could be very important as we go forward.
The second key priority with RFID has related to our store display.
We interestingly started this at Herald Square in the shoe department where we used RFID to be able to audit the shoes on display on the floor.
Because as you imagine they get moved a lot during a day.
And it's been extraordinarily successful.
We've rolled it out now to all of women's shoes across the company.
And next up to do the same -- utilize the technology the same way will be luggage and men's shoes which will be up this summer.
Moving on we'll go next to Jeff Stein at Northcoast Research.
Wondering if you could talk a little bit about -- again going back to the Millennial strategy reconcile kind of the weakness in junior's with your optimism that -- and I know junior's is only a piece of Millennial but you're reconciling that with your optimism on the Millennial strategy.
And wondering if you've tested any of these new brands that are going to be rolled out.
And kind of -- what kind of reaction you've seen by the customer if you have tested? Jeff we test most everything that we do but I'm not up-to-date on specific tests vis-à-vis the brands.
But we did a lot of research and testing as we've developed them.
So I'm sure that that is happening as we speak.
If you think about the Millennial strategy as I said earlier that older millennial is where we saw whitespace.
So we're really focusing a lot of attention on that customer.
That's also a customer who's going to buy lots of merchandise beyond apparel.
As you know we've rolled out our Impulse cosmetics areas.
Also Impulse is an important part of our shoe strategy and other accessory areas.
So all of that is in play.
And again we've talked about active.
And finally with rolling out to store fulfillment from online to 500 stores by fall do you feel comfortable that you've got the store labor situation under control? And are you able to still leverage your store payroll with the I presume the increase in hours required to service that omnichannel customer? The answer to that question is yes.
Our store's team have done a spectacular job of doing this fulfillment very accurately on time and budgeting accordingly.
So we feel very confident of our store's organization ability to do this.
Our next question today is from Paul Swinand with MorningStar Investment.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to drill down a little on the online and the margin.
I know you've talked about free shipping and some impacts to gross margin.
But as you shift more to mobile and as it continues to evolve could it actually be better for gross margins? I mean are people buying more items? Is it higher AUR? And is there more full price I guess? Well historically that's all been true.
But candidly it's getting so hard to know what's a store sale and what's a mobile sale and what's Internet.
But over time we do hope to have a higher merchandise margin to offset some of those costs.
But I think that's farther down the road.
Research Division</strong> Is the mobile customer accelerating some of those trends or loosening any of them? I guess I would speculate that the mobile customer wants convenience and will buy quickly and maybe more at full price? I wouldn't speculate that.
Our next question is from Bob Drbul at Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Is the -- the first question I have is in your assumptions for '13 I know you're going to stop providing the online growth.
But can you just tell us how much online growth is assumed? And will it be higher or lower than what you experienced this year? Well as I said it's getting harder to figure out the lines between them.
So I really can't give you that number.
I mean I don't know it.
But clearly the growth is continuing very aggressively.
But sometimes it's being bought on a mobile device sitting in a store.
So I'm not sure how to define that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the 292 stores that you have omnichannel stores can you just talk a little bit about some of the learnings from that and any changes being made as you go up to the 500 stores fulfilling orders? It's a lot of details Bob and I really don't know all of them.
But clearly the stores have compared best practices and are trying to do that.
One of the early learnings was that we had thought we would have special-purpose people doing the fulfillment activity.
And we discovered that we were better off using the support associates that we had because they better understood the merchandise and people who were putting merchandise on the floor are going to find it much quicker if they understand it.
So we did change the staffing model some.
But there's a lot of details that go into this and our store operations group is just doing a terrific job as I said rolling out best practices.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is can you just talk a little bit about the cold weather categories? Sort of how you've come through that and sort of your experience there over the last several months? Well January was good as you recall in cold weather.
But for the fall season as a whole it was another disappointing cold weather season.
We thought that was impossible after 2011 but it happened again in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Your inventories -- I mean is everything sort of cleaned up at this point as you move forward? Well we've actually consciously held goods over because as you know the cold weather is still here.
We had done that last year and it was very successful.
Sometimes we clear our floors too early.
And so we have kept some of the cold weather merchandise on the floor to continue to be able to sell now.
But we don't see any liability in terms of future markdowns.
Moving on we'll go next to Matthew Boss at JPMorgan.
Matt? Research Division</strong> Karen about a year ago we sat down at headquarters and talked about My Macy's MAGIC Selling door-to-store all really in early innings.
What would you say over the past year -- what's been your largest learning? And then looking forward what do you think the largest opportunity is? That's a hard question.
I think the learnings have just been there's so much more to learn.
There's still so much more we can do with My Macy's.
And every year we find new things.
We're working with our vendors and MMG to specialize product even more for customer groups geography stores.
Omnichannel obviously there's a huge opportunity in front of us as we integrate our strategic thinking more across channels.
And MAGIC Selling again it's on a trajectory to keep improving the level of service we're giving to our customers.
So I think the biggest learning is just how much more we have to accomplish.
Research Division</strong> Not a bad problem to have.
As you look forward the continued merchandise margin improvement this quarter was encouraging.
Can you speak to where we're at today versus prior peak? And then how should we think about door-to-store and what this could be -- what kind of opportunity this could be to gross margin going forward? Well our merchandise margins are at historic peak.
The question on the table is through this optimization of inventory is there more potential through -- and we have to see from there.
So we do expect there to be some improvement in merchandise margin as we go forward.
Unclear if in '13 if it's going to offset the added delivery cost associated with omnichannel as I said earlier.
It very well may but jury's still out.
Our next question today is from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First just to clarify your comments earlier on the top line the first quarter we should expect same-store sales to be 2 to 3 points above the second quarter? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> But roughly about 3.5% still for the first half? 3.5% for the year but I don't see a lot of deviation besides that first and second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then regarding your cash certainly you have a lot of cash.
What should we expect from a share repurchase standpoint in '13? Should it be a similar amount to what we saw in 2012? Well we don't comment on guiding to this amount of stock we're going to buy back.
As we've said that is what we use our excess cash for.
But how much we actually buy back depends on the price of the stock depends on the cash being generated from the business market conditions et cetera.
But we've said that that is what we're going to use our excess cash for.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Karen I was just wondering if you could give us your updated thoughts on the capital structure and if there's an opportunity to perhaps borrow to further fuel the buyback program this year? There's always an opportunity.
And I think as we said in the past our credit rating is very important to us.
And we had set credit ratios a couple of years ago for debt-to-EBITDA and EBITDA-to-interest and we still are living by those targets.
So in 2012 we hit the low end of the debt-to-EBITDA target.
So again there is still potential to raise incremental debt in '13 given the improvements in the EBITDA.
But we are working to maintain or even increase our credit rating as it is today.
But that doesn't preclude increasing the debt level some.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at your $925 million of CapEx guidance is that a good longer-term run rate? Or will we see that taper off as you complete more of the flagship renovation in the out years? I would not expect it to taper off.
And I think the unknown is whether or when we might build another mega center which might cause that CapEx to go up over the $925 million somewhat in a year when we build that.
But we don't know that yet.
But I would not expect it to go down over time.
Our next question is Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I was wondering if you could just talk to us a little bit about the store-to-door maybe ask the questions a little bit differently.
But can you talk a little bit about the cost profile initiative and if it's a drag to margins beyond what we've seen in the past for e-commerce sales fulfilled from a warehouse? And has that profile changed as you started to scale the business up I guess? I think the key thing to focus on is the improving margins we're talking about.
It's so hard to define profitability by these individual transactions and allocate everything.
If I were you I would just focus on the fact the operating income is expected to continue to increase as a percent of sales.
Research Division</strong> And is that a function of -- I mean I think you're one of the only ones that we can clearly say it feels like as your Internet scales it's really becoming a contributor to the profitability.
But I mean 9.6 operating margin is [indiscernible].
It's always been a contributor to the business.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And maybe as you think about the comp guidance for the year and maybe the components that went into it as you built it AUR has been coming down a little bit each quarter.
Will 2013 be more about transactions and unit growth than 2012 was? And is there any changes to the way you plan the business differently with that being said? Well I think we expect the AUR increase to be similar to what it was in the fall.
And we'll go next to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Karen this is actually Heather Balsky on for Kimberly.
I was wondering if you could just talk about some of your strategies and the progress you've made in particular price optimization.
And also your focus on sort of leveraging your store base to sort of do -- I guess showcase the items in the store but only ship from online? Well that's part of the omnichannel work.
We've done a lot of experimenting this year with goods that are in the stores for which we don't have inventory backing it up.
A lot of those initiatives have done very well.
We've also experimented with putting merchandise online that we don't have inventory in the online warehouse as the inventory is only in stores.
In the fourth quarter we had about 700 items that we tested this with very successfully.
So we will continue to roll out and do more of showing goods online that we're not keeping in the online warehouses which is a great thing for the customer and also is good from a profitability perspective because these are typically goods whose economics don't do so well in big warehouses.
So we continue to be very excited about that.
In terms of price optimization I think that's proven to be a lot harder than we had expected it to be and we're still working on how to optimize pricing across the company.
But that has not been as easy to do as we had hoped early on.
And we'll move next to Liz Dunn at Macquarie.
Liz? I guess my question is about Bloomingdale's.
Can we just have a little bit more information? I know you said that they did pretty well in the quarter but how are you feeling about their specific merchandising strategies and their outlook for 2013? And then also an update on Bloomingdale's outlet? Yes.
I would say Bloomingdale's is doing well relative to its peer group and we feel pretty good about it.
It was a tougher year in 2012 but it was a really strong year in 2011.
And when you put it together we feel good about their merchandise strategies and what's ahead for Bloomingdale's in 2013.
They very successfully launched the Loyalist the new loyalty program last year at Bloomingdale's.
And again they just continue to make progress.
On the outlets I would say they continue to -- or refine the strategy and work on it to improve it.
That's why you don't see us adding a significant number of outlets yet.
But we expect that to start happening very shortly.
[Operator Instructions] Moving on we'll go next to Dana Telsey at Telsey Advisory Group.
So I can definitely tell the thought that's going into fulfillment and the channel convergence that's occurring.
How do you think about the labor costs involved in fulfillment? And is there any update on mobile? Are the margins -- as you see long term the margins as the combined business do they have the opportunity to move higher with the labor costs that are involved? Yes.
I mean as we've said we are marching up to exceed that 14% EBITDA rate and a lot of that is being driven by these omnichannel transactions.
So we feel very good about the profitability of the business going forward.
And how many fulfillment centers do you think there can be over time? In the stores? Yes.
Well we're going to have 500 up this year which represents about 85% of our business.
So a significant number and we may increase it from there.
And is mobile having an impact Karen? Are you seeing that? Well mobile is clearly becoming more important whether it be tablets or smartphones.
And so we're spending a lot of time developing our mobile apps working on those to make them easier to use both to shop but also for information.
Our next question is from Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> Could you speak a little bit about trends in women's apparel and amplify a bit on the success in activewear? Yes.
I would say overall women's apparel has continued to be tough.
Every month or so we see some light at the end of the tunnel but it really hasn't overall produced that well.
As you heard we had a good fourth quarter in women's suits.
Dresses has been improving.
Some of the classic private brands did very well in women's approval.
But overall the numbers have not been as strong as the rest of the store.
Now as I said the Impulse business which will be on our ready-to-wear floor as part of the Millennial we think is going to be helpful.
And hopefully all boats [ph] will rise and women's apparel will do better as we get into the fall season.
Research Division</strong> Could you amplify a little bit on the success in activewear that you noted? I'm not sure what you mean.
Research Division</strong> I thought you said that activewear performed particularly well.
Yes it did both in men's and women's.
We think that the Finish Line addition will also help drive that business even further.
And we'll go next to David Glick at Buckingham Research.
Just to follow-up on the category trends.
Clearly accessories has been a big driver for the last few years.
Are you seeing any signs of any loss of momentum there? And are you still planning that as one of the key areas i.e.
Center Core? And then secondly if you can give us a little more detail on how the CapEx breaks down? How much is going to be Herald Square and some of the learnings you have from the transition you went through this year and what you applied to maybe minimize disruption this year? Yes.
In terms of the accessories Center Core business is they continue to be very very strong and we expect that to continue in 2013.
In terms of the CapEx budget it's really very similar to this year.
Remember Herald Square was going to be about $400 million over 4 years.
So it's still going to be a significant chunk of the capital in 2013.
We are thrilled that parts of the store are now open which are helping to offset some of the disruption.
The women's shoe floor has been doing spectacularly and the jewelry areas are doing better and better now that the first floor is -- the Luxe shop's open.
But the first floor if you've been over here lately is still very disrupted both in the cosmetic side and also the men's side.
So that disruption will continue.
I am not up to date David on all the learnings but I'm sure that the Herald Square team learned a lot last year about how to minimize the disruption and they're doing everything in their power to do that.
But there still will be disruption this year.
Are you as pleased on the handbag side of that first floor as you are with the shoe area upstairs? Yes.
The first floor has been a little harder to read because not everything is complete and there's still disruption.
The shoe floor is completely done so it's easier to read.
But we are pleased with all of the areas that have been completed so far.
And moving on we'll go next to Wayne Hood at BMO Capital Markets.
A couple of questions.
Can you give us some sense of what percent of your sales are tied to free shipping and kind of what's embedded in the guidance? And is there any particular product classifications that are tied more to that? I don't know the specific percentage but it's -- those transactions are happening out of store and also the online orders.
So it is obviously becoming a bigger percentage of the business.
But don't forget the lion's share of our business is still what I would call plain old store sales.
So a lot of the growth and the attention is on dot-com and this omnichannel area which is absolutely helping us tremendously in terms of growth.
But the lion's share of our transactions are still what I would call in old-fashioned retail sale.
Yes.
And my last question I guess was just a discussion around credit.
I think coming into the year you thought credit income would be about $610 million and I'm just wondering where that landed and kind of what's embedded in your guidance for credit income in the coming year? And is there any nuances quarter-to-quarter as you adjust kind of the income coming in? Well credit this year the income is about $663 million which is obviously better than what we had expected at the beginning of the year.
It was a combination of good performance of the portfolio but also credit sales grew more than what we had anticipated earlier in the year.
As we look to the guidance for 2013 we're expecting that income to still go up but only by about $10 million to $15 million.
So getting less help year-over-year in 2013 but still a positive.
And we'll go next to Priya Ohri-Gupta at Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Was hoping you could speak a little bit more about your credit ratings objective? You discussed sort of holding ratings at the current level or looking to improve.
Should we now think of high BBB as a potential objective? Or is it just getting to mid-BBB ratings across all 3 agencies? Well we said repeatedly we'd like to be mid-BBB.
But given the strength of the business and the cash flow we could easily find ourselves above that.
But our targeted has been to be a strong mid-BBB rating.
Research Division</strong> So if you find yourselves above the mid-BBB should we expect that you would come back down to the BBB [ph] over time? I can't see that.
And we'll go next to Donald Palmer [ph] at Discovery Capital Management.
Your primary department store competitors had a challenging 2012 with the most challenged competitor handing over about $4 billion in sales to Macy's and others.
Can you give us a sense for how much that dynamic contributed to Macy's 2012? And if you could just help us quantify or factor in how much of that you factored in in terms of your 2013 guidance? Did you assume a similar competitive tailwind? Or something else? I really can't comment on that.
On either the 2012 or the 2013 guidance? Either one.
I mean as you know it's obviously helped us in '12.
But remember the overlap between customers isn't 100%.
And so there's a lot of our customers that are well above shopping at Penney.
And that is all the questions we have at this time.
Ms.
Hoguet I'd like to turn the program back over to you for any additional or concluding remarks ma'am.
No that's it.
But thank you all very much.
And if you have additional questions just either call me Matt or Sara and we'll do what we can to be helpful today.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us and wish you a good day.
Good morning and welcome to Macy's Incorporated First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead Ma'am.
Great.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K.
Sales in the first quarter were $6 387 000 000 or up 4% over last year.
On a comp basis sales were up 3.8%.
Given the unusually cold weather in the quarter we were very pleased with our sales performance.
Our business was weakest in the quarter with our most budget-conscious customers as well as our upscale customers at Bloomingdale's.
On the other hand sales in the core of the Macy's business remained quite strong in the quarter as reflected in our overall comp performance.
Remember also that as we transition our athletic footwear business to become a licensed department operated by Finish Line this will negatively impact our reported sales performance throughout the year.
This was particularly relevant in the year during which the businesses converted because sales of athletic footwear were obviously included in last year's sales numbers but are not in this year's.
In addition to Finish Line as you know we have also licensed some of our apparel and accessories space at Bloomingdale's and we have added licensed shops for a few luxury vendors here at Herald Square.
So if we calculate comp sales including the sales of licensed businesses in both years our comp sales performance would have actually been 6/10 higher or 4.4%.
Our strongest merchandise categories continued to be handbags watches active apparel men's home textiles luggage furniture and mattresses.
Cosmetics and shoes both had a good quarter but not as strong as the other businesses mentioned.
Women's apparel and our Millennial business remained challenging in total but we have seen some encouraging signs in parts of these categories.
For example we did see strength in opening price point apparel suits and dresses junior dresses and in many of our major market and private brands.
Geographically our business continued strongest in the South.
We believe this in part resulted from the unseasonably cold weather in the northern half of the country.
Our Internet and omnichannel businesses also continued to fuel added growth.
As you know we are no longer breaking out online sales because of the integration in our business between online and in-stores.
The more we collaborate between our channels and utilize inventory across the company to satisfy customers the more opportunities we are finding to improve our overall performance.
Average unit retail in the quarter was up 2.5% with transactions up 1.7% and units per transaction down slightly.
Gross margin rate in the quarter was flat with last year at 38.8% with merchandise margin up slightly.
Inventory at the end of the quarter was up 3% over last year consistent with our expectations.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $2 041 000 000 up 2.3% over last year.
And as a percent of sales SG&amp;A was 32.0% reflecting 0.4-point improvement versus a year ago.
We are continuing to invest in the growth of our dot-com businesses store fulfillment and other omnichannel strategies.
These investments were offset in part by stronger-than-expected credit performance.
Credit income in the quarter was $166 million or roughly $23 million over last year due primarily to lower losses particularly bankruptcies.
This increase is in fact above what we had expected for the full year.
We now expect the credit income to be up over last year by a similar amount in the second quarter and up but by a whole lot less in the fall season.
Our penetration of our proprietary card was 45.3% in the quarter which is flat to a year ago.
Operating income in the quarter was $435 million up 11% over last year and 40 basis points as a percent of sales.
Interest expense was $97 million $15 million below a year ago and pretax income was 21% above a year ago.
The tax rate in the quarter was 35.8% up slightly over last year.
We still expect that the effective tax rate for the year to be approximately 36.95%.
But as you know the rate in any quarter is going to be impacted by the timing of settlements and other discrete items.
Net income in the quarter was $217 million up 20% over last year.
Average diluted share count was 30 -- 394.5 million shares which is 30 million or 7% below last year due to our ongoing repurchase activity.
During the first quarter we bought back approximately 8.4 million shares for a total of approximately $360 million.
So earnings per share were $0.55 on a diluted basis which represents a 28% increase over a year ago.
We are very pleased with this result because it combines a strong operating performance driven both by increases in sales and in profitability along with the benefits of utilizing excess cash to buy back shares.
We believe this quarter demonstrates the power of the Macy's story.
Cash flow continued strong as well and in the quarter we generated $191 million of cash from operating net of investing activities.
This compares to $63 million last year.
Because of our strong results and our confidence in our future we increased our quarterly dividend by 25% up to $0.25 per share.
And in addition we increased our buyback authorization by $1.5 billion which is added to the $1.1 billion remaining at the end of the quarter from our prior authorization so a total of $2.6 billion.
As we look forward we are not changing our outlook for the year.
We are still expecting comp sales of 3.5% for the year and EPS on a diluted basis of $3.90 to $3.95.
I would add though that while we still expect the second quarter sales to fall below that in the first quarter we now expect the spread between the first and second quarters to be by less than the 200 to 300 basis points we had mentioned in February.
We believe we will get a benefit in the second quarter as the weather finally begins to get warmer.
As I said during our last conference call we are confident and determined.
We are a company that excels at multitasking.
We are structured and aligned to improve our performance simultaneously on a number of fronts.
So when you think of the potential for us to continue to outperform you shouldn't just look at one element of the business.
Our potential spans categories stores online and mobile Macy's and Bloomingdale's private exclusive and market merchandise brands.
We are engaging with customers no matter how they shop us; reaching out to diverse multicultural customer groups whether they are Millennials or part of other demographics; and of course we continue to manage expense very carefully optimize our inventories invest capital wisely and work hard to maximize cash flow.
We have so many great assets and so many opportunities for further improvement.
I am very proud of our unfolding story of growth at Macy's Inc.
Thank you all for your interest.
And now what questions can I answer? [Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Matthew Boss of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Karen could you speak to online growth and the progression of the omnichannel effort as you move closer to 500 doors by year end just what you're seeing today in the overall progression? Well what we're seeing is obviously the store fulfillment has been a huge success and has allowed us to greatly increase the amount of online orders that we're able to fulfill and satisfy customers.
And it's also enabling us to satisfy demand in stores as we do the Search &amp; Send we've talked about where we utilize store fulfillment to satisfy orders in different stores.
So it is a huge success and is for sure helping fuel the sales growth we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then second question can you just talk a little bit about the mindset as it relates to capital allocation particularly when I look at your 2.4 to 2.7 debt-to-EBITDAR target sitting at the low end and your actions today raising the dividend and buyback.
What's the best way to think about this going forward? Well I think as we've said maintaining a strong investment-grade rating is important to us.
We think we're right about there sort of in the mid-BBB category and that's the ratings that we're going to aim to maintain as we go forward.
Possible we may go a bit higher but I don't think you're going to see any dramatic change in our behavior as it comes to using excess cash.
We believe that paying a competitive dividend is important.
You saw that this morning with the increase in the dividend and excess cash beyond that will be used to buy back shares.
And we will hear next from Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> In terms of inventory growth I was impressed in terms of your management even with the very difficult quarter from a weather perspective.
Can you talk about tools processes people you have in place in terms of how you were able to manage that so well? Well I mean that's been a strength of ours particularly since the reorganization.
Our merchants are constantly forecasting and re-forecasting the business and making sure we're taking the markdowns we need to keep the right age of inventory.
Because the key to running a retailer is keeping the flow of fresh receipts.
So if you're not maintaining the right inventory level you get backed up particularly in periods like we've seen with the unseasonably cold weather.
So I think our merchants have done a terrific job managing the inventories and keeping fresh goods coming into the stores.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then can you talk about the timing of the launch of the 13 Millennial brands and I think the expansion of the existing 11 as well? Yes -- no I think we're probably midway through those launches.
I haven't actually counted which ones but having seen some of them in the stores last week they look terrific and so far so good in the stores where we're testing them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question can you talk about the licensing opportunity and how it's changing your model and access to product? Well where there's a category or a vendor but let's speak category for a minute where we don't think we can get the best product for our customers a license deal like Finish Line makes a huge amount of sense.
If you think about it they have access to shoes that we couldn't get as Macy's.
And so it's obviously greatly enhancing our assortments which as you know is the key in our mind to being successful in retail.
Also they have a great selling model which I think will also benefit us.
So should there be other categories or parts of the business where those -- that situation exists another one by way is obviously Sunglass Hut.
We might license something else but I don't see it becoming a huge part of the business.
And we will hear next from Kimberly Greenberger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> If you could just speak to a little bit Q1 and if there was any sort of improvement as you worked your way through the quarter and we got some warmer temperatures or if you can speak to the way Q2 started? And then we're just trying to figure out how to think about Q1 and Q2 sales relative to one another.
I know you expected less of a delta relative to the 200 to 300 basis points but if you could give us any guidance on that that would be helpful.
Yes everyday we see warm weather the business gets stronger in those categories that are impacted by weather -- things like apparel sandals things like that.
So we're fairly confident that when it gets warm business will improve.
At the end of the first quarter we had expected first quarter sales to be increased to be higher by 200 to 300 basis points than the second quarter.
We don't now think that delta will be as great.
We still think the first quarter will be higher than the second quarter but not nearly by that amount again because of the weather shift.
We'll go to our next question from Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Karen just 2 questions.
One the weakness that you spoke of at the low end as well as the high end or with the Bloomingdale's customer I'm wondering if that showed up as a traffic issue perhaps conversion maybe both or was it more about the ticket size? And then second you've talked in the past about your view of SG&amp;A and credit and how you look at those 2 and manage expenses based on what credit is doing.
And I'm wondering which specific buckets you feel that you can flex as you look to the back half of the year where you expect credit to be less of a tailwind what are the buckets that you can flex most easily? Well in terms of -- Bloomingdale's did have a challenging quarter.
I can't speak to the question specifically that you asked.
In part because Bloomingdale's is a more contemporary fashion retail they have been hurt more by the general weakness in the feminine apparel area.
I think also the fashion today is quite a bit younger which may be less appealing to the broader Bloomingdale's customer.
That may be a piece of it.
So again we're not sure but they did have a more challenging quarter.
On the other end of the spectrum we are seeing some weakness amongst our more budget-conscious what we call deal-hunting customers.
But the truth is you really should be focusing on the overall strength of the Macy's business because obviously we had a great comp in spite of this.
On the SG&amp;A side we're constantly managing expense and obviously the good news in credit helped us quite a bit in the quarter.
But we would expect to continue to have good SG&amp;A performance as well in the back half of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Are there specific buckets though that you look to first to flex up and down as you see credit come in better or worse? I don't -- we wouldn't -- we don't change the SG&amp;A because of  credit going up or down.
I mean I -- we just are constantly trying to manage SG&amp;A as aggressively as we can but not in response to what we're seeing on the credit side.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Stein of Northcoast Research.
Karen just kind of curious how your private labels performed during the quarter and if the weakness that you saw at the low end was more in private label or in branded goods? No -- well actually we had a very good quarter in private label and interestingly particularly the opening price point.
But often the opening price point doesn't necessarily mean the lower-end customers.
So you've got to be careful.
Because again our opening price point goods are really just giving great value to every customer but private brands had a very good quarter.
Okay.
And your new collections in Millennial I think you spoke very briefly to that but just wondering if you can talk about some of the early reads and feedback you're getting? And if and when it has been positive would it possibly affect or change your view of orders for fall perhaps increasing the waiting in that category or...
No I don't think so.
I mean we feel good about the brands.
They look great on the floor really bringing life both to the mstylelab or the junior floor.
And the Impulse areas that we're creating look terrific largely because the new product and even the older products that we're buying differently really making progress.
But as we've said don't expect it to have a big impact on growth until next year.
This year we're just rolling it out slowly and testing and learning.
Okay.
Got it.
And final question number of Finish Line departments at the end of the quarter? That's a tough question.
Jeff I don't know the answer.
We'll get back to you.
I think it's around 20 but I'm not positive.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Swinand with Morningstar Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> I guess as you look out just maybe a couple of years 3 4 years on the online investment do you feel like you're in a heavy investment period and then eventually that should start to slow down? Or do you feel like the way the business is going now this is just kind of the ongoing run rate and you'll continue to invest online [ph] it will leverage with the sales growth but not in a step or in a lumpy fashion? Well there are lots of lumpy investments being made but I don't anticipate the total to come down into the future.
As we model out our CapEx going forward we are not assuming a reduction in investment in the online omnichannel world.
Now some of that investment goes into the stores though because it's increasing the use of technology within a store.
But I don't believe it's going to go down as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But do you think it will leverage a little faster as the sales pick up? Or is it just kind of a steady state...
No I think it's more dollars-related I mean how much we're spending.
So I mean again as we look at our capital budget we're going to spend about $925 million this year and I would encourage people to model $925 million to $1 billion for the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's very helpful.
And then I feel like I've asked this question a number of times before but it's always interesting to hear the incremental tactics that you're doing with the My Macy's or some of your operating strategies and I know you in your prepared remarks said there are new things that you're finding.
Can you give us more color on what we have to look for in the future? Yes.
I mean it's interesting.
We've been out in stores recently in 3 very different regions 1 Northern California 1 Southern California and San Diego and then McAllen Texas last week.
And in each region the amount of opportunities each of the teams is finding to fine-tune their offering whether it be inseams of pants colors size offerings and even some brands and products it just gets better and better each year as we go to visit.
So continue to focus on that.
In other parts of the country there's other strategies going on.
But I think the whole process and the way we're trying to localize what we offer is going to continue to help us drive sales growth as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> So in essence it's just smart local merchandising that you're still finding new ideas on? It is and we learn more and more about the customers.
And by the way sometimes the customers change.
If we look at the number of stores that are Latino-influenced it's growing significantly since we started 4 years ago.
So we also have to be nimble as customers change.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
And then this is I admit maybe a little bit of a soft poll [ph] but I've talked to some people in your team about how this structure is hard to copy and how your competitors probably wouldn't be able to do it.
Could you kind of elaborate on that a little for us? Yes.
There's 2 key reasons.
Remember we put the My Macy's planning organization and structure in place at the time we eliminated our regional divisions.
So at the time we were cutting significant expense and what we did is we reinvested part of the savings into building this organization.
Had we not had the expense savings that we were generating I don't think most companies would now add that much expense to their structure to bring this new organization online.
More importantly though is as we eliminated these divisions we had access to incredible talent that had been merchants literally who had worked with vendors in New York no matter where they lived and having this merchandise and merchandise planning experience going out into these district positions has allowed them to know how to localize the assortments.
If we had started from scratch to hire these people we never would have been able to get the talent that we have in the field.
And we'll go next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Karen I was just hoping to get your updated thoughts on gross margin for the rest of the year.
Did you see anything in the omnichannel rollout that made you change your views on either where the shipping pressure would come in or -- and then secondarily merch margins do you think they will continue to be flat to up? Yes at this point I really don't see anything changing there.
The guidance we had given at the beginning of the year was flattish to down slightly.
I'd say the same thing today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then we saw the total inventory number but with these -- with the warmer weather in the first quarter are there any pockets of inventory that you've carried over that you weren't expecting to? Well on any given day there's pockets of inventory I wish we didn't have.
I mean that happens always regardless of the weather.
But there is nothing that we're concerned about in terms of big pockets or major liabilities as we go into the second quarter.
We're taking care of those on a timely basis.
And we'll take our next question from Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up a little bit on your ratings comment.
I really appreciate the thoughts there.
But as we think about your leverage target and you've now been trending sort of at the low end of that 2.4 to 2.7 is that where you're comfortable operating? I know in the past you've alluded to the possibility of adding debt particularly as EBITDA grows but could we see you in the market to help fund some of your share repurchases? And then just secondly...
Yes you could but we would stay within the ratios.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Should we see the potential for you to trend towards the higher end? Or do you want to stay at the mid to low end of that? I think all I can say is you know I've said what ratings we'd like to have we've talked about no dramatic change with what we're doing.
But beyond that I think that's all I really can say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one administrative question.
Where do you need your cash balance to be to run the business on an ongoing basis? I don't even know how to begin to answer that.
It changes based on the season and the time of year.
Maybe call Matt and we can take you through it on a month-by-month basis.
It's just different.
Then we'll go to our next question from Bob Drbul with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
On -- in the first quarter the promotional event that moved from the second quarter was that -- did that trend as expected? Are the consumers still responding to the big promotional events that you're running? Yes.
This was Friends and Family and it was very successful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- I guess back to the low-end weakness or even the high-end weakness are you seeing any competitors be irrational around the weather-risked -- in the categories that have weather risk in them? I can't speak to anything major that we've seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question is just on the women's business like within women's apparel just elaborate a little bit more there around the trends that you're seeing any changes in the trends and sort of I think within the suit business anything that you're doing differently there? Well the suits and suits separates is a category that I think we're finding better product for that's more appealing to a working woman which I can attest to myself.
So that looks a lot better.
So it's -- I think it gets to better assortments.
The opening price points are looking better and better giving value out of the private brands.
Active has been very strong which is part of our Millennial strategy.
And some of the major brands in addition to the private brands had great first quarters.
So I say this with some trepidation but there is some hope that perhaps there'll be improvement in the apparel business as we go through the year and the weather warms up which obviously would be very helpful.
And moving on we have a question from Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> The omnichannel investment I'm wondering if you can fill us in a little bit about its evolution beyond store fulfillment and what you might be expecting later in the year to help move along omnichannel in relation to the store business and a peek into your plans for 2014? That's a tough question to answer easily.
There's a lot of things we're doing to keep growing the omnichannel business.
If you think about the fulfillment side going to the 500 doors will be huge for helping that business.
We're also doing a long long list of things to improve the site itself because having a robust and competitive website is critical to helping with the omnichannel effort.
And then the third area we are beginning to invest more in-store technology to bring some of the best of what we know online into the offline environment.
So there's a lot going on and will continue to be as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> And how are you blending the omnichannel strategy of merchandising with Facebook your loyalty program communicating in that way? Well I mean obviously the marketing team is operating from an omnichannel perspective.
And our merchandising teams are collaborating more and more each day.
So everything that marketing does is looking at digital marketing as well as some of the more traditional forms of direct mail or ROP.
And we'll go to our next question from Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
I guess my first question is are you seeing any pressure from added promotions at the higher end? It seems like Saks was maybe a little bit more promotional this quarter.
Is that impacting your Bloomingdale's business at all? I don't know.
Without the reporting of monthly sales we're not quite sure yet and with us reporting first we'll see more.
It could be.
I don't know for sure.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up to Bernie's question in terms of your sort of social media and the ways that you're reaching out to customers digitally where are you in terms of specializing that content? And I ask this I just -- I get a lot of e-mails about things that -- from Bloomingdale's in particular but also from Macy's that I don't feel are particularly targeted to me.
Where do you find yourself in that evolution? Well we have made enormous progress.
However we're still right in the beginning phases and getting better and better at doing that both at Macy's and at Bloomingdale's clearly a high priority for both sides.
Okay.
And then just one final one.
Any update on how you're thinking about concession shops? I know there are a couple at Herald Square that have been rolled out.
How does that impact or does it have any impact on the rest of the chain? Are you  thinking about concession shops for the rest of Macy's or Bloomingdale's? Well I think you heard me say sort of from an administrative accounting perspective as we convert it does hurt the comp sales so we talked about the fact that comps would have been 60 basis points higher had we kept everything as own business.
But more importantly what we think is that these leased businesses or licensed businesses are enabling to offer our customers better assortments and that's really the key.
As you've heard me say repeatedly it all starts with product.
And any way we could give the customer a better offering we will do it.
And we will go to our next question from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So a question on the full year guidance.
You mentioned that the credit benefit was better than expected and you expect that to continue in 2Q.
I mean from my just quick calculation that was probably a benefit of about $0.06 to earnings kind of relative to the initial view that you provided.
Is there anything we need to be thinking about or aware of that is kind of offsetting that flowing through? I can't comment on that specific calculation but it's the first quarter.
There's just no reason to be changing estimates at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
And then could you provide just an update on the Bloomingdale outlets and what you're seeing there? Is the expectation still just for I think you said 4 new stores this year? Well no it's not 4.
It's just Rosemont and Chicago.
And I would say the results are doing better.
As you know we're trying to refine the formula get it right before we roll it out more aggressively and we're still in the progress of doing that.
And our next question comes from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit -- I think in February you gave us some good metrics on your RFID efforts but as you think about that longer-term can you talk a little bit about how that will impact some of the inventory metrics we see outside of the company? Well I mean if you think about RFID there is a couple of places that it can be particularly helpful.
One is going to be in terms of item accuracy for replenishment and that's obviously a big deal because we'll be able to take inventory on a realtime basis and constantly replenish where we don't have the inventory.
So that should be a big deal and again we'll have the capability in all stores this summer late in the summer.
And as the vendors begin to tag the goods we'll be able to roll that out more and more.
The second place is in terms of where we can find goods on the floor which will help in terms of the store fulfillment that we're doing.
It will make that a lot easier to do than today.
And as you know we're also using that technology to help us what we call display audit on our shoe floors.
So that at the end of the day -- how a woman or actually a man shops for shoes picks up the sample shoes wanders with it and puts it down some place.
And so getting the shoe floor back with all of the right shoes in the right places is very cumbersome without RFID.
And with the RFID we've greatly simplified that process and sped it up so it's really helping our business.
And now we're planning to roll it out not only to men's shoes but also to luggage.
So we're pretty excited about that.
So it really helps in 2 ways: on the replenishment side it should help us grow sales more aggressively; and on the identification it should help us with some of our store operations.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
And then can you -- if I could ask you about AUR for a minute.
Obviously we see pretty tough comparisons from last year and that extends into the second quarter.
I don't know -- I mean if the 2.5 you said in the first quarter was where you thought it would be or does that maybe dovetail to the comments about the low-income consumer being a little weak and maybe you had to get a little more promotional? Or I guess maybe just where is AUR versus where you thought and is that something that you expect about 2.5 again next quarter? Well it's a little bit lower than we had expected but the answer is really in mix as opposed to the implication that we had to get more promotional.
We didn't or our margin wouldn't be where it is.
So I think it's more just a question of the mix of the business.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go next to David Glick with Buckingham.
So I had a question about the comp cadence for the year the 4 5 4 calendar is making it hard to understand.
Clearly you've given us an updated sense of Q1 versus Q2.
But in Q4 obviously the 1 less week between Thanksgiving and Christmas has historically been a negative.
In addition the extra week last year was supposed to be a positive which really didn't turn out to be.
But how can  -- how should we think about kind of Q3 versus Q4 from a higher level? Would you see Q3 above Q4? Or is maybe the opportunity in November from all the disruptions you had a year ago? Wait.
Are you talking about comp or...
Comp yes.
We're not giving guidance by quarter for the fall.
We have talked about the impact on total sales in the fourth quarter but we're not giving a split now between the third and fourth quarter.
Do you have any general comments about kind of how the calendar sets up for Q4 whether you think it's a positive or a negative? I don't have any comment.
And we'll go to our next question from Felipe Gusons [ph] with Mitsubishi Securities.
2 questions if I may this morning.
The first one can you refresh my mind again how much of an overlap you have with the typical Kohl's and JCPenney customer? And then I have a question on liability management.
It's a pretty wide question to be asking.
I can't quantify the overlap.
It's not that high.
People tend to think we compete more directly with them than we do and it varies greatly by family of business.
Okay.
So it's fair to say that if JCPenney were to be able to stabilize the business and maybe even improve it at some point in time that you would not see a meaningful impact on your performance correct? Well there's 2 things that happens.
One is the impact of the Penney sales but also to the degree that they drive more traffic to the mall that often can help us.
Okay.
And then the liability management question Karen.
Last year if I recall correctly you did a tender for some of your higher coupon debt.
Given your strong cash flow and the fact that you still have some of that higher coupon debt outstanding what is your thinking for this year? Might you still launch another tender? And then kind of as a subsequent question what is your average cost of debt right now? I can't comment on that on our plans.
Sorry.
And our next question comes from Rob Wilson with Tiburon Research.
Inc.</strong> I guess last quarter you talked about a 30 basis-point impact from the licensing of athletic shoes.
And today you've stretched that to 60 basis points.
Can you let us know maybe what changed in the last 3 months? Well I think it's a different definition actually.
The 30 basis points was if we took athletic shoes out and it was only athletic shoes the 60 basis points includes all of the licensed businesses and also includes them in the calculation.
So it's just a different calculation.
And our next question comes from Rick Snyder with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> The gross margin being flat I thought was a pretty good performance because you moved the Friends and Family back and your comments on shipping I was expecting it slightly down.
Was there something that gave gross margin in the quarter a boost to get it back to flat? And if so is there an offset in a future quarter? I hope not.
I agree with you it was a good performance.
But I think it's -- we're expecting it.
As we said for the year flat to down slightly.
So I don't mean to imply it will be flat each quarter.
We hope so but we'll see as we go.
But I think it really was a terrific performance on the part of the company.
And we'll go to our next question from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
As online continues to become so important how is mobile integrating into online? What are you learning? And is it different from Bloomingdale's versus Macy's? And just lastly how does the loyalty programs fitting in and what are you seeing there? Yes.
No the mobile question is quite interesting because in the old days you would think online and stores.
Today we've got tablets we've got smartphones there's sort of a continuum between a smartphone and a desktop we're thinking about.
So how we build our sites and how we think about our marketing program how we think about search technology we now have to vary for the various different types of devices -- and clearly becoming a very important part of our strategy on the mobile and particularly the smartphones.
Tablets are huge but the smartphones are really what's different because that tends to be with the customer wherever they are even more so than the tablets.
So very exciting.
And yes a lot of what's happening will be different for Macy's or Bloomingdale's but as you know we try to leverage as much as we can of the infrastructure so that we get the cost benefits across Macy's and Bloomingdale's.
On the Loyallist program I'm -- Dana is your question the Loyallist program? That's exactly.
I think it continues to get better and better.
I think the customer has responded very well to it at Bloomingdale's.
But we continue to make modifications to make it simpler easier to understand easier to track.
So it's work-in-process but we feel very good about it thus far.
And it appears that there are no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Hoguet I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks.
No I just want to thank you all for your interest and if you have any follow-on questions feel free to call me call Matt and we'll do what we can to provide the answers.
Thanks.
And again that does conclude the call.
We'd like to thank everyone for their participation today.
Good morning and welcome to Macy's Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Lorie.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's conference call scheduled to discuss our second quarter earnings.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K.
While we are pleased to have reported a 7.5% increase in earnings per share for the second quarter and a 16.5% increase for the first half of the year we were disappointed with our sales performance in the second quarter.
Remember that we had originally planned sales growth 200 to 300 basis points lower in the second quarter than in the first quarter due to the shift in the timing of the Friends and Family event at Macy's.
But the trend did end up worse than what we had expected.
We believe that much of our weakness is due to the health of the consumer and the fact that consumers seem to be choosing to make purchases in non-department store categories such as cars housing and home improvement.
Since we're the first to report sales and earnings it is frankly hard to judge how much of a role the economic conditions played but we think it was significant.
We also believe however that we could have produced a better sales performance and we are discussing what we could have done differently both so that we can improve the trend in the third quarter and also so that we can have a great second quarter next year.
I'll address this more as we go through the call but the good news is that we believe we have reacted appropriately and our fall plans now reflect increased marketing as well as greater recognition that in today's environment value matters a great deal.
So we are turning up the volume on that message for the remainder of 2013.
We believe that the changes we have made will result in improved sales performance this fall.
And while it has only been a few weeks we are encouraged by our early August trends across the country and particularly in the back-to-school categories.
I'll now summarize some of the key aspects of our second quarter results as well as our guidance for the back half of the year and then I will take your questions.
Sales in the second quarter were $6.1 billion down 0.8% from last year on a comp basis.
Remember the comp sales do not include any amounts attributable to licensed businesses.
If sales and licensed businesses were included in both years our comp sales would have been up 0.3% or 1.1 points better.
As we have discussed this is the most comparable measure to last year because of the conversion of our athletic footwear business to Finish Line and also the introduction of some new brands at Bloomingdale's and at Macy's Herald Square that are licensed departments.
Sales at Macy's were disappointing in the quarter across the country although less so in the Southern parts of the country and Hawaii where weather was less of a factor.
Macys.com continued to be strong relative to last year.
Bloomingdale's had a very strong second quarter both in stores and online.
This performance was much improved in comparison to the first quarter which is very encouraging.
If we look at the performance by family of business trends softened relative to the first quarter pretty much across the board with businesses that had been strong remaining so on a relative basis.
Business in Center Core especially handbags continued very strong as did key home categories including furniture and mattresses.
We also saw strength in key back-to-school categories including kids and active although juniors continued to be weak.
Impulse which is geared to our older Millennial female customer is beginning to gain traction as we continue to add more new brands.
Our 2 most recent launches Maison Jules a private brand and QMack an exclusive brand by Jones have both started off very strong.
What was most encouraging in the second quarter however was the strengthening in feminine apparel.
Sales of career and modern wear to work merchandise were strong and this bodes very well for the fall.
We also did very well in opening price points in the women's apparel area.
Moving on to the areas with weakness.
In addition to juniors we had a tough quarter in shoes driven by a weak sandals season.
We are hoping for a strong boots season which would improve our overall shoe trend this fall.
Cosmetics fragrances jewelry and watches all softened in the second quarter relative to the first but we do feel better when we look at the overall trend in the first half of the year in those categories.
Average unit retail was flat in the second quarter with transactions down approximately 1.6% and units per transaction up just short of 1%.
This is a very different picture than what we had experienced earlier this year.
The average unit retail was hurt by the promotions needed to clear through the warm weather inventory as well as mix for example the opening price point of apparel being strong with jewelry being weak.
What was more concerning though was the drop in the number of transactions which is a proxy for traffic.
This is in part why we decided to add to our marketing for the back half of the year.
Gross margin in the second quarter was 41.8% down 10 basis points from last year.
This was partially due to additional markdowns needed to clear the seasonal merchandise given how long it took this year for the weather to turn hot.
Also pressuring margins in the quarter were the ongoing costs associated with free shipping.
These negative factors were offset in part by higher licensed income.
Inventory at the end of the second quarter was up 6%.
This is consistent with what we had expected and reflects the acceleration of back-to-school receipts and receipts of merchandise in our key brands.
Planning the timing of receipts is very complicated this year.
Because of the 53rd week in 2012 every week on the fiscal calendar is essentially 1 calendar week later.
We believe that bringing these goods in fiscal July was right for driving the sales since customers shop on certain calendar days even if it falls differently on our retail calendar.
SG&amp;A dollars in the second quarter was just short of $2 billion $10 million less than last year although up 20 basis points as a rate of sales due to the lower sales.
We are very pleased with our expense performance and our ability to minimize the impact on the bottom line of the weaker sales.
In the quarter we benefited from continued good results from our credit business which generated $31 million more income this year than last year in the quarter.
The credit profitability continues to be driven by low losses and the strength of the portfolio but we do continue to be challenged by credit penetration which fell versus last year by 70 basis points in the second quarter.
As we look to the fall we are not anticipating big increases versus last year in credit income.
The benefit from credit was offset by our added investment in omnichannel which we're funding to support the continued growth.
Interest expense in the quarter was $96 million $9 million lower than last year.
Our tax rate in the quarter was 35.8%.
As we have discussed our tax rate will vary by quarter based on the timing of settlements and other discrete items.
Net income in the quarter was $281 million up $2 million over last year.
Average share count on a diluted basis was 389 million shares down 7% from last year.
Earnings per share on a diluted basis were $0.72 which is 7.5% over last year's $0.67.
For the first half of the year comp sales were up 1.5%.
And if sales of licensed businesses were included comp sales would have been up 2.4%.
Operating income for the first 6 months was up 2.5% over last year and up 10 basis points as a percent of sales.
Net income was up 8% over last year and earnings per share on a diluted basis was $1.27 up 16.5%.
While we were disappointed by our second quarter sales we were pleased that we were still able to produce 16.5% earnings per share growth during the first half of the year.
The cash flow also continued strong during the first half of the year.
Cash flow provided by operating activities net of investing activities was $348 million up $103 million over last year.
Some of the major variances versus last year were: one $38 million higher net income; two $20 million more cash generated from inventory net of payables; and $103 million lower CapEx.
We do still expect CapEx for the full year to be approximately $925 million.
Also the combination of the current income taxes deferred income taxes and the long-term tax liability which is in other liabilities was essentially a wash.
During the quarter we utilized $446.7 million to buy back 9.2 million shares so for the first half of the year we have bought back $806.5 million worth of stock or 17.5 million shares.
As we move on to the fall we recognize that we are not entering this season with the sales trend that we had expected.
However we have taken actions that we believe will result in stronger trends this fall.
We are very excited about the value and the assortments we will be offering our customers with strengthened marketing to drive customers to our stores and to our websites.
Our guidance for the fall is to have comp sales in the 2.5% to 4% range.
This would translate to an annual comp increase of 2% to 2.9%.
The top end of our guidance is comparable to our expectations at the beginning of the year with the lower end more reflective of the recent trends.
We don't anticipate being able to make up the second quarter shortfall in the back half of the year.
And with this lower sales expectation for the year we are also lowering our earnings per share guidance to $3.80 to $3.90.
Our management team is viewing the second quarter as a speed bump.
We do not see this as a change in the momentum that we have accumulated over the past 3 years.
Our MOM strategies My Macy's omnichannel and Magic Selling are alive and well.
And just last week we saw a huge amount of excitement at a senior management meeting for the new ideas being developed and executed in the My Macy's localization omnichannel integration and Magic Selling.
As noted we have learned from our shortfall in the second quarter in a manner that we believe will improve our trend not only in the upcoming holiday season but next spring as well.
We realize the environment in which we're operating will continue to be challenging but we have made appropriate adjustments and have complete confidence in our MOM strategies and in our team's ability to execute at a very high level.
And now I'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about the cadence of the sales trends throughout the second quarter was it weak like from the very start or softened more towards the end? No it was weak throughout the quarter.
May was impacted by the shift in the Friends and Family so it was a little bit hard to judge.
But it was weak throughout the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And you mentioned that you are encouraged about the August sales today particularly in back-to-school categories.
Could you give a little bit more color? Specifically is the quarter-to-date trend within your 2.5% to 4% range? I can't comment on the numbers for a couple of weeks but we are doing significantly better than we were doing in the second quarter in back-to-school but frankly across the country and across all the categories.
So it really does feel like we're onto a new trend.
But again 2.5 weeks does not make a season.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly from me you spoke about the marketing approach the change you're going to have in the second half.
Could you just give a little bit more color on what we should expect? Are these sharper discounts across multiple categories? I mean what should we -- what difference should we see in the marketing and promotional cadence? Well obviously being sensitive to not sharing data to our competitors.
Really what we're trying to do is communicate more broadly and be more clear and crisp in the communication in terms of how we're offering value.
And we're obviously also trying to be very sensitive to the fact that in this environment price matters.
So -- but we're trying to do things in a balanced way both in terms of brand marketing and also what we call demand.
But it really is just stepping up making our voice louder.
And we'll go next to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I am wondering if you can just help us think about the second half of the year and are there any shifts between Q3 and Q4 that we should be thinking about as we're modeling out revenue gross margin SG&amp;A? Just help us with the way to think about Q3 versus Q4 if you can.
There aren't any significant shifts between the quarters.
There's lot of shifts between months within the quarters but not a lot across the quarters.
Research Division</strong> So are you expecting a relatively consistent trend in both Q3 and Q4 as you look out to the back half of the year? Yes but it is hard to forecast at this point.
So we'll provide more insight as we get at the end of the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
And then just lastly if you could just help us think about inventory levels both at the end of -- well particularly at the end of Q3 just given the change in the fiscal quarter end date that would be great.
I think I would focus sort of on year end which is when the calendar flushes out and it's the same weeks.
Q3 could be a similar situation as Q2 given when the fiscal calendar ends versus the regular calendar.
But again our inventory at the end of the second quarter was actually below our plan.
So we feel fine about the inventory levels.
Research Division</strong> And your outlook for year end on inventory? You know what I don't have that in front of me but my guess is it's keeping in what we would expect sales to be in 2014.
And we'll go next to Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> As we head into the second half can you speak to any merchandising initiatives that we should watch for in stores? And also any categories or changes that you think contributed to the upswing in Bloomingdale's that you talked about? I think in terms of what you should see in stores there's going to be a lot of new brands as I said rolled out in the Millennial world particularly in Impulse Maison Jules QMack are the latest.
Bar III still looks terrific that's something I would point to.
Looking through ready-to-wear the assortments are looking better and better.
But there's newness in every part of the store particularly as we head to fourth quarter and our gifting strategies.
I had the chance last week to see the setups of the assortments for the fourth quarter and there's lots of newness lots of new items that just look terrific.
So we're actually quite excited about holiday for this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then secondly in relation to the overall aggregate comp anything you saw as it relates to door to store? I think you have 500 is that -- are you at 500 today? And how do you think this can help as we get into the holiday having 500 stores up and running on door to store? I think what's happening is having increased ability to fulfill demand has been great for the website.
It's also great for the stores who can offer inventory that perhaps they don't either carry in that store or that they've run out of.
So I think this is a terrific sort of weapon in our arsenal to help grow business this fall and having 500 doors just increases the probability of satisfying the customer's demand.
Research Division</strong> As you lap some of the benefits from last year am I right in thinking that the lower productivity doors that's where the multiyear opportunity is and that you can basically offer more fashion without taking the inventory risk? Am I right in thinking about that? Yes absolutely.
One of the good things that has happened from store fulfillment to your point Matt is that we have been able to give some of the smaller doors more fashion so that if it doesn't sell at the same velocity that we would like we can use it to satisfy either Internet demand or demand from other stores.
But what this is doing people often talk about downward spirals this is actually the opposite.
And it's making our offerings in our smaller stores more attractive and that is beginning to gain some momentum.
So we think this will help over time.
It's still early but we think this could be a big benefit.
And we'll go to Steve Kernkraut with Berman Capital.
I just wanted to get a bit of sense on some of the e-commerce strategy.
You're spending a lot of money in terms of putting the inventory -- having the inventory in store having a direct shipment all that kind of stuff.
But it's the type of thing where -- what is the return that you're really getting from all that? You're not measuring your dollars you're not providing the dollars to the investment community in terms of how much your sales have done on e-commerce -- this is probably double-counting but how do you measure the return on investment of what you're spending there? Well we know that the sales growth we're getting is significantly greater because of what we are able to do not only on the Internet but with what we're calling these omnichannel transactions satisfying demand significantly greater.
So we know that that's a benefit significant to us.
And by the way if we weren't doing it on the Internet people would be shopping elsewhere.
So...
Right but it's the same rationale.
Do you build a new store that's cannibalizing another store or do you rehab an existing store? If you didn't do it the sales of the store would've gone down.
But I mean...
Correct but the key thing is Steve we're...
You're very comfortable you're getting a return on investment that you desired.
Absolutely.
And we'll go next to Charles Grom with Stern Agee.
Research Division</strong> Given the comp shortfalls surprised that the gross profit margins held in as well as they did.
I was wondering if you could speak to some of the positive areas that you saw in the quarter.
And also what your expectations are for the back half on the gross profit line.
Well I think the key thing is that the licensed business income is additive to the gross margin and that helped offset not only the lower merchandise margin but also the added costs associated with the free shipping.
So those are really the key components.
As we look to the back half of the year I think we'd still expect gross margins to be flattish maybe down a touch.
And that's consistent with the guidance we've provided all year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then my second question on your call in May you spoke to the budget shopper as an area of softness and I was wondering if that was a factor here in the second quarter...
Kind of what area? Research Division</strong> The budget shopper the low-end shopper being an area of softness I was wondering if that was a factor again here in the second quarter.
You know it probably was.
We're trying to dissect that and that information comes to us a little bit later.
But that's my suspicion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay great.
And then just to play devil's advocate if there's a crowding out effect from housing and from auto sales just what gives you the confidence that that really changes in the back half of the year? Or is it just your expectation in some of the things you're going to do on your own can offset that? Well we have dealt with what I would call shifting consumer moods many times in our past and I frankly think we can manage through this as well.
So we'll see but I think you're going to see enough newness in our assortments as we head towards holiday that I think if weather cooperates this year that could be an added plus.
But we feel confident that we'll be able to manage through it.
But -- yes.
We'll go to Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a clue or 2 about what exactly created the exciting response at the management meeting? Probably not.
But I think what I would tell you is that when we went through all of the offerings particularly for the holiday season was the focal point because at this point back to school is already on the floor in the fall -- the third quarter inventories it's very exciting.
We learn and we get better and better every year with the gifting strategies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So gifting is part of it.
With regard to the e-commerce portion of the business I know you're not breaking it out and I'm not asking for that.
But could you see a slowdown in e-commerce sort of parallel to your overall sales weakness? With Macy's we did.
It's was still extraordinarily strong but it also weakened from the first quarter.
Bloomingdale's was equally strong as the Bloomingdale's stores.
So it's really the brands that had the movement.
Research Division</strong> And I'm sorry in your comments I really didn't pick up I wasn't listening closely enough I guess about the weakness in budget and you said you -- in your answer here that you really weren't quite aware of what might have been the cause.
But you did say that in women's apparel the lower price points were selling well.
So could you amplify a little bit about the budget price points? Well it wasn't budget price points it was the budget-conscious customers and they can be at all price points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You're seeing value-conscious customers in a way? Correct.
Correct.
We'll go to Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research Investments.
Question on the Finish Line in-line store -- a store within the stores I'm wondering if those are performing better than expected because it seemed to me at the beginning of the year you were expecting those departments to have perhaps a 20 or 30 basis point headwind to comps and it looks like at least in the second quarter the impact was over 100 basis points.
So I'm wondering is it the improved performance of the Finish Line departments relative to plan or is it some of the other licensed departments that you've added at Macy's and Bloomingdale's Herald Square you mentioned specifically? And if so if you could just call out what those departments are? Finish Line is doing extraordinarily well.
I have a feeling -- I'm not sure what that 20 basis point reference is to so I'll have to go back and check and see what that is.
But we feel very good about Finish Line as well as the other businesses.
And how many departments -- Finish Line departments do you have currently? I'm not sure I know that number specifically.
I think at this point by next year we're expecting to have 450.
But at this point I think the number is approximately 100.
Okay terrific.
And one final question real quickly.
Can you talk about the drop in credit penetration and what might be the cause there and if you have any strategies in place to try to bump that up in the back half of the year? Well I think part of it has been related to some of the new regulations limiting credit lines and limiting our ability to offer credit to customers.
And I think part of it is just related to the overall weakness in the business in the second quarter.
So our hope is that we will begin to also improve penetration as the overall marketing increases and the business strengthens.
We'll go to Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just really quickly as we think about the back half and last year we were talking about how favorable the calendar was between Black Friday and holiday with the extended I guess the extended holiday shopping days.
And this year I think it's a much shorter calendar.
Could you help us to think about what the impact that may have on the holiday outlook as we look to our fourth quarter modeling? Yes.
The truth is I've heard people argue that it will hurt us this fourth quarter and I've heard people say that it doesn't hurt us.
I think I fall more to the "it won't hurt us" because people are going to spend a certain amount of gifts and they'll just have fewer days to do it.
Last year the Christmas season felt like it went forever and I think the compression may add to more excitement and frenzy which could help business.
But we'll have to see as we get through the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you -- I think you called out weather as a potential plus.
You've obviously had 2 bad winters in a row here.
Two in a row? I'm not sure but yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And so can I assume that you're planning the outerwear categories fairly conservatively? And if so if weather plays ball maybe some comments on what your big outdoor vendors are telling you as far as being able to help you guys chase -- I mean they've also obviously had inventory pressures the past few years as well and will probably want to be conservative.
Yes.
No I can't comment on the vendors because I haven't had those conversations.
We are planning it conservatively and we're also talking about what if it goes back to the old days of a typical cold weather and making plans accordingly with the vendors.
But I can't comment on any of the specifics.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe finally just on your saying that -- your guess is that you're going to find at the budget-conscious consumer has been your hunch is to what's been sluggish.
And as you're adjusting the plan just so we think about it is the plan to flow in maybe a higher mix of lower opening price points or is it maybe more to keep the merchandise more consistent maybe hit the coupons a little heavier which would line up with your step up in marketing comment? Honestly it's a little bit of both.
And part of it is just that we may have moved away too far from some of the opening price points in women's apparel.
And so part of it just may be we're finding our strategy in terms of key items.
We'll go to Bob Drbul with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess with the second quarter results and the uncertainty that persists into the back half of the year at this point what is your appetite for share repurchase and how has it changed over the first half of the year? Hasn't changed at all.
I mean we don't see anything changing in terms of the underlying value of the company.
And our cash flow continues to be very strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you look I guess in dissecting the business would you attribute competitive pressures to any of the shortfall? I'm not sure how to answer that.
As we moved into the second quarter we may have waited a bit too long to start marking down the warm weather goods.
And I think some of the competition started doing so sooner than we did.
That may have caused us to lose some sales in the quarter.
I'm not sure.
But frankly as we looked back on the quarter we were more concerned with things we did or didn't do ourselves as opposed to what competitors were doing.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question is I think you said broadly speaking the sales results of Macy's were disappointing.
But geographically either in the second quarter or I guess for the last few weeks in early back-to-school are there any geographic callouts that you would make for us? Well I had said that in the second quarter the South continued to be stronger than the North.
So that's been a continuation but the South weakened as well in the second quarter.
And as we moved into August everything has gotten significantly better.
And it's hard to judge by geography given some shifts in the tax-free weeks.
But my sense is that everything has risen in terms of the level of performance.
And we'll go to Paul Swinand with Morningstar Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the -- kind of all the Internet and analytical tools that you're using.
I noticed for example on your website you've got things that are trending.
There's also some talk in the industry about using weather analytics.
Are there any callouts or is this just still too early to tell? Are you getting any -- can you give us any color on the effectiveness of some of the Internet and online analytics that you're using and how that might affect sales and markdowns? Well we think that having the online analytics helps us to better understand our customer in what we call a 360-degree view which is very helpful in trying to fine-tune our marketing and how we're sending e-mails.
And we're trying to get better and better at personalization.
So we do think it's helping but we're really at the very early stages of utilizing that data.
Research Division</strong> So it's really first inning? Oh absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then real quick I know you talked a little bit about the outlets and you said transactions are a proxy for traffic.
You thought the outlets were a little stronger but I know in one of the conferences you said your were opening sort of a hybrid in Gurnee here in Illinois.
Can you comment any more broadly on the long-term trends? Do you think that the outlet areas are going to continue to drive traffic off mall still getting more general traffic? Do you think that's going to continue or it's just a blip in the second quarter? Well I didn't comment at all about the outlet business so let me take a step back.
Macy's we don't have an outlet business.
We did open a new store during the quarter in Gurnee Mills which is an outlet mall that also has some regular retail as well so let's say regular Macy's store that's opened at Gurnee and has opened incredibly strongly.
And if it does well it's possible that we would open regular Macy's stores in other outlet malls across the country.
Bloomingdale's does have outlets and as I've said on prior calls we're still refining that strategy.
We did open one in the quarter in Rosemont in Chicago which I've not seen yet but people who have seen said it's absolutely spectacular and hopefully bodes well for the strategy going forward.
Research Division</strong> I thought in your -- maybe one of the responses to the questions you said that the traffic to outlet malls was better or you were losing share more to outlets.
I didn't say that.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
No I'm not even sure what I said.
I did not say that.
And we'll go next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You had talked about some things that you could have done differently in the second quarter.
Was that around product specifically timing marketing? What would you attribute that to? Honestly yes yes and yes.
We've got -- we're very self-critical and we're all perfectionists.
And so even though we can point to lots of things in the economy in the environment that hurt the business we are all determined to do whatever we can to improve it.
So we looked at things said "Did we have too much reliance in the quarter on regular priced promotion? Should it have been more what we call demand promotion? Did we have too much fashion and not a lot of core seasonal merchandise? Did we have enough opening price product to fuel the second quarter? I mean we went on and on and on looking at all the things we felt we could do better.
And we've made notes for next year in the second quarter and we immediately began fine-tuning our plans for the third and fourth quarter for this year.
Research Division</strong> And then as you look at your inventory balances coming into the third quarter have you cleared through all of the summer goods that were liable? We have not cleared through it all because as you know the weather is still quite hot.
But we're where we had expected to be in terms of the clearance.
So we are working through that inventory as we had expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But we shouldn't expect any carryover gross margin impact into the third quarter? No.
Not any different than what we had planned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at the marketing plans for the back half are you elevating your spending levels or are you just changing the marketing message? No.
We are spending more.
And we again started working on this a while ago and so we were able to offset the added marketing costs in other parts of the business.
So it shouldn't be an SG&amp;A issue.
But yes we are accelerating the spend.
We'll go to Liz Dunn with Macquarie Capital.
I guess I'll start with just the improvement that you've seen in the last few weeks.
Is that improvement in fall goods or is that selling through some of the spring summer carryover? Both but the encouraging part is the new goods.
You'd expect us to keep selling summer goods at great values.
But the new product has been selling well also.
Okay.
In terms of looking at some of these kind of inflection points in the quarter or maybe they're not inflection points maybe just anomalies but as you think about the flattening out of AUR and sort of the slowing in performance of shoes cosmetics fragrance jewelry watches can you see sales accelerate in the back half without a change in that trend from the second quarter? We can but we also expect a change in that trend.
Okay.
How much is the Center Core as a percentage of your business? I don't have that in front of me but you can find it on the website.
Okay.
And then finally in terms of those categories that were a little bit softer in the quarter was that still -- was that a factor at Bloomingdale's as well or did those categories perform strongly and consistent with where they had been at Bloomingdale's or even accelerate? I think Bloomingdale's was similar in terms of the change in trend in some of these businesses.
But again other than juniors which has continued to be weak we're not overly concerned about the trend change in the second quarter in those businesses as we look at the whole spring season.
We'll go to Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit more about the licensed business opportunities? It seems like it's becoming more important and it seems like it's doing well and adding.
How do you see that progressing? And then just lastly the timing shifts of the event into the first quarter from the second quarter are there any other timing shifts of events that we should be watching? I'll answer the second question which is no as we go through the fall season so there's nothing -- no major shifts between the third and fourth quarter.
In terms of the licensed businesses I think they provide a great opportunity for us to offer really compelling assortments and categories where either we can't get the product or we don't have the right selling model.
And they've been very successful whether it be Sunglass Hut or now Finish Line.
In the case of Bloomingdale's and also Herald Square it enables us to bring in some designers and brands that we can't -- couldn't get on an owned basis.
And they're working very well.
So we do feel good about it.
Will we continue to find opportunities? I think so and I hope so.
Because again our mission is to provide great assortments of wanted product to our customers any way we can.
And if we can't do it ourselves we love finding partners like Sunglass Hut or Finish Line to work with to bring the best that we can to Macy's and to Bloomingdale's.
And we'll go to Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions on the credit opportunity with more advertising or more marketing being front-loaded in the second half will some of that be directed to signing up more credit customers to try and build the credit card portfolio and the credit card income in the second half? We always invest a lot in doing so but there's not an increase versus what we had planned originally.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so your outlook for the credit contribution in the second half is...
We think it will be up over last year but not by a lot.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So at a rate less or above than we saw in the first half? Probably significantly less.
And we'll go to Stacie Rabinowitz with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> You had talked a little bit about maybe wishing you hadn't bought quite so many fashion items or maybe I'm misinterpreting you.
Could you talk a little bit about how sort of fashion versus basics performed during the quarter and also maybe own brands versus some of the labels? Private brands had a terrific quarter.
Obviously always we have some that perform better than others but we've had terrific success with our private brands in the second quarter as well as for the spring season in total.
And I don't have the data on true fashion versus basics but we're always fine-tuning that balance.
But fashion is obviously very important to the Macy's customer but also obviously he or she also needs basic items.
So you've got to get it balanced right.
And we'll go next to Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could update us on your thoughts around adding more debt to your balance sheet over the remainder of this year.
And then whether there's any change in your sort of thought process around where you want to maintain the leverage target within your range and whether it's more prudent to keep a little bit more cushioned just given the uncertainty around the remainder of the year.
I mean as you know we're currently at the very low end of our range in terms of leverage.
And as I've said in the past there's a good chance that we could issue some more debt this year and again it will depend on market conditions.
And we'll go to Michael Exstein with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions for you.
Number one Bloomingdale's was very early to see a slowdown in the organization and now you're saying that it's probably seeing an improvement in its business.
Do you think it's acting as an early warning to your organization? And secondly what are your plans or how are you positioning Macy's to sort of ride improving home-related good sales and to hopefully offset some of the slowdown elsewhere in the mix? Well home has been a strong category for Macy's for the last couple of years and we continue to build on that success both in terms of the assortments adding Millennial products throughout for example textiles even some in housewares and furniture and mattresses -- less mattresses but more furniture.
And we continue to build on that strength and expect it to continue.
So that's been a strong category all year and we think that will continue throughout the fall season.
In terms of Bloomingdale's as you know they had had a weaker first quarter strong second quarter the opposite of Macy's.
But we do hope it bodes well for Macy's as we go through the fall.
Research Division</strong> Is there any history of it sort of being an early warning or a canary in the coal mine in terms of business? Not really.
I'd like to believe so today but we'll see if we get through the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Well we're all looking for something.
Yes no I think what's interesting though Michael as we look at again it's only been 2.5 weeks but the whole back-to-school area has been doing well and that makes us feel good.
And the fact that new merchandise is selling has to be a positive versus what we've seen during the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> How influenced has the selling been by any changes in the sales tax holidays? Don't think it has been.
I mean we've been tracking where there haven't been those.
It's harder because as you know every state seems to change them.
Research Division</strong> Yes every year.
And different -- so we've been focused on versus planned versus looking at it versus last year because of all of those shifts.
But I don't think that's the reason.
And we'll go to Filippe Goossens with Mitsubishi Securities.
Another follow-up on the credit card performance.
You made reference to changed regulations.
Can you just clarify a little bit more what you meant? And then kind of the second part of my question is if you look at your terms are they at all any more restrictive than any of your competitors even including the banks that may perhaps limit somewhat the upside in the amount being charged on your cards? Yes it's a good question.
I don't know the answer relative to the granting of credit.
As you know Citibank owns our credit business so they're really the ones who make all the risk decisions.
And I can't speak to how Citi makes those determinations versus others as to whether it's tougher or not.
I'm not sure about that.
Okay.
And then my second question Karen you made reference a couple of times to competition.
Can you at all comment on whether the return of promotions at JCPenney had an impact on the performance in the quarter? I really can't comment on that.
And we'll go to David Glick with Buckingham Research.
Most of my questions have been answered but just wanted to get an update on what you're seeing at Herald Square.
Did that -- is that progressing as you would expect it? Obviously it's a major capital investment for the company.
And did the disruption there have any impact on your overall business? And in tourist cities in general did you see any changes in your trend in Q2 versus prior quarters? I don't think there was a particular trend in tourist cities.
As I said every place sort of got worse except the Southern parts of the country.
But I don't think there was a big difference tourist versus not.
Herald Square is doing very well in terms of our own sales relative to plan.
And if we include the license sales they're doing better versus last year.
Once we get through this fall season we'll be through I believe the worse of the disruption meaning the main floor.
And for those of you in New York I'd urge you to come and watch the changes.
By November we should be reopened on the first floor and it's looking terrific.
And we feel very good about how the business has responded.
The shoe business while overall shoes hit a tough quarter Herald Square did very well.
And we feel really good about the areas as we reopened them.
Great.
And just a follow-up on marketing.
At what point in this past quarter did you decide to kind of strengthen the marketing in the second half? And did it have any impact on the back-to-school business that you're seeing now? Or should its impact just kind of given marketing lead times be more focused on later in the fall season? No.
I think we started making the changes earlier in the quarter.
So it is helping in terms of the August business and will keep going as we go through the fall season.
And also just a clarification.
I'm assuming your comments about the last 2.5 weeks are on a kind of apples-to-apples calendar basis shift-adjusted for the 53rd week.
Yes I mean it's relative to what we had expected.
We'll go to Gregory Chwatko with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the flexibility with regards to issuing a bit more debt could we consider uses of capital there? Could you give us an idea of what the uses would be? And then as part of that would you consider potentially paying down some more of the higher coupon debt as you've done in the past? Or do you feel comfortable with the levels where they -- those maturities are as far as size and such? Well where we had to issue debt it would be to either prefund maturities next year and also fund the buyback program that we've talked about.
In terms of refinancing higher coupon debt we're always doing the analysis to see if it makes sense.
But obviously we've done those issues that made the most sense.
And it just depends on the economics in any given point.
And we'll go to Rick Snyder with Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us some sort of an idea how much the licensing is benefiting gross margin and sales during the second quarter? Was it a steady decline or did we see choppy sales like we've seen in the past? No we had seen choppy sales throughout the quarter I mean all the way through.
And we don't comment on the specific components of gross margin.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Harry Ikenson of Ikenson Research and Consulting.
Karen you mentioned that you're excited about the new trend and you said in women's sales going forward.
I was wondering if you could comment at all on some of the excitement if you can't be specific on anything on colors or is it a new silhouette just give us something that you can comment on that you feel comfortable with.
Well we talked about the modern wear to work suit separates has been very strong as well as some of the opening price point more key items have done well also.
Active has been very strong which is pretty much a new category for us over the last year or so.
And we're beginning to see traction for the younger feminine customer or the older Millennial customer in the Impulse area.
Some of the new brand launches are doing extraordinarily well and we're building business there also.
And we'll go next to Wayne Hood with BMO Capital.
A couple of questions.
One I just wanted to deep dive a little bit more into how you express in the marketing message your value proposition because just looking at this past weekend's back-to-school flyer I mean you're in there with Levi at $39.99 and JCPenney's at $40.
So if you look at that there's really not much difference in the value proposition other than you're emphasizing more styles size and colors.
So as you think about how your message evolves is it going to be more about price or you leave that alone? Or you just emphasize the style size and color differences between you and others on key brands? I don't think I'm going to comment on this Wayne.
You'll have to wait and see.
Okay.
The other thing kind of related to this if we were to enter a period where the consumer was beginning to buy the opening price point goods at a more sustained basis what does that do as you think about your comp rather than being 3 it might be 2 or 1 to 2 rather than 3 and what does that do for your leverage metrics if we do get into a period like that from an expense standpoint? Well remember I don't mean to imply that opening price point is taking over the store.
It's still going to be very balanced and it's just been slightly stronger in the second quarter but it's not the pendulum going completely to the other direction.
And all of these factors were taken into consideration when we gave the guidance of the 2.5% to 4% for the fall season.
Don't overreact.
It sounds like you're overreacting.
Okay.
My final question back to credit then like everyone else I guess if you were to push Citi to go deeper into the file to try to drive traffic would you be willing to incur less credit income for that increased traffic and anticipating that losses might grow into 2014 so therefore that we might begin to think about 2014 where credit income could actually be down year-over-year? Well first off Citi makes those decisions in terms of the risks.
But having said that if it were -- if I were making those decisions I probably would push farther.
But again that's not within my control.
And we'll go next to Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So 3 hopefully quick questions.
So as we look and dive into the Millennial strategy which I think you've been incredibly effective if you look at the Impulse strength versus juniors and I know you still have a lot of brands rolling out this year and next can you maybe talk about some of your early wins at this point in the game? Well I think the early wins have been both in active which has done extremely well both some of the market brands as well as their own private brand Ideology which is terrific product at a great value.
On the Impulse side the new brands Bar III which was the first big private brand in Impulse has done very well some of the market brands.
And again the launch of Maison Jules last week went extraordinarily well.
So we think that it's product and assortment is first and foremost for that Millennial customer.
Juniors has taken us a little bit longer and not as optimistic that we're going to have it turned around this fall.
But hopefully for spring of '14 that will begin to strengthen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I had an unusual amount of time to spend on your website but I went and revisited Everyday Value and just wanted to know some additional insight in terms of how you're utilizing that as an opening price point especially as you look at your strategy in the back half of the year? I don't think there's any change with that Deb in terms of what we've done in the past.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then in terms of the improvement at Bloomingdale's just wanted to know how kind of the Loyallist program fit into that as well? I think the Loyallist program as it continues to get refined is becoming more important to driving the Bloomingdale's business.
So I don't know the specifics but I have to believe that's been a factor.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then lastly as we think about MOM with Magic Selling training kind of going into the back half of the year as we think about kind of maybe more of a value message will the associates on the selling floor also have that as part of their training? Absolutely.
And again our sales associates are taught to engage with the customers and one of the things that Peter Sachse who is running the stores now says to them sell from the heart.
All of that training I think really is paying off and they are very sensitive to the messages of the company in terms of the importance of communicating value.
So I believe that will be done very effectively on the selling floor.
That concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the conference back over to Karen Hoguet for any additional or closing comments.
Great.
Well thank you all for your interest in the company and your support.
And as always if you have other questions feel free to call me Matt Sara and we'll do our best to get them answered.
Thanks.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation today.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Macy’s Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks and good morning.
And welcome to the Macy’s Inc.
call scheduled to discuss our third quarter earnings.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K.
We are very pleased with our third quarter performance.
We produced a comp store sales increase of 3.5% or 4.6% on an owned-plus-license basis is 30-basis-point increase in EBIT rate and a 31% increase in diluted earnings per share.
This is an improvement in trend from the first half of the year and it makes us cautiously optimistic about our outlook for the fourth quarter.
Sales in the third quarter were $6 276 000 000 up 3.5% on a comp basis.
This is on top of a 3.7% comp increase last year in the third quarter.
This is towards the higher-end of our guidance of 2.5% to 4% for comp sales growth in the back half of the year.
Including license sales comp sales were up 4.6% in the quarter.
This is the most comparable metric for customer demand.
This is particularly true this year because we have converted businesses like athletic shoes from being owned to being licensed.
The owned comp dollars would be 0 this year for these businesses against obviously a big number year ago so making the comp sales somewhat misleading.
And this 4.6% on an owned-plus-license basis compares to 2.4% in the first half of the year.
This is over a 2-point improvement in trend.
As we said at the end of the second quarter we felt we had to intensify our marketing and enhance our value offering to drive the business in the current economic environment.
We did both and we are happy to say it paid off.
The customer responded well to the cleaner and bolder look to our sale advertising some new promotional handles and great values on fresh merchandise.
We also improved graphics and visual merchandising in the stores and on our website in order to make our sales and values more obvious.
This was a real team effort.
During the third quarter the number of transactions increased approximately 1% which has improved versus the first half of the year when the transaction count was roughly flat.
Units per transaction was up 2% in the third quarter versus being flat in the spring and our average unit retail was up slightly in the quarter.
And remember last year our average unit retail in the quarter increased 4.5%.
Also as evidence of the success of the changes that we made is the fact that the change in trend was very widespread geographically.
Sales improved across all of the Macy's regions in the country in the third quarter with particular strength across the South and in the Northeast.
Bloomingdale's had a strong quarter as well.
We also saw broad-based strengthening across all major categories of business.
There are lots of good news stories and only a few weaker ones.
Starting with women's apparel we are pleased that this category has continued to strengthen.
The season change was positive for this business with our customer responding very well to the newness.
Our strength in private and women's apparel was driven by our private brands cashmere dresses suits coats and active.
And our Impulse business which is aimed at the older millennial customer had a great quarter including a terrific launch of a new private brand Maison Jules.
And while sales in juniors continued weak in absolute terms the trend did improve versus that in the first half of the year.
Sales in the Center Core categories continued their very strong performance driven by handbags cosmetics fine jewelry intimate apparel and boots.
The trend in watches did however slow somewhat in the quarter.
Performance in men's continued good with particular strength in active tailored clothing and cold weather merchandise.
And our home business was outstanding with particular strength in home textiles housewares furniture and mattresses.
Luggage was the one category within home that weakened in the quarter.
Looking at the third quarter we are particularly encouraged by 3 trends that bode well for the fourth quarter.
One the traditional gift categories are trending very well.
This would include businesses such as fine jewelry cosmetics cashmere handbags and housewares.
The second encouraging trend is that the cold-weather businesses were all strong: coats boots sweaters et cetera.
If we have anywhere close to a normal weather pattern this year this could add significant volume.
And the third encouraging trend was the stronger growth in women's apparel businesses including that of the older millennial customer which is always great for our business.
Turning to gross margin.
The gross margin rate in the quarter was 39.2% down 40 basis points versus last year.
This is in part due to the increased shipping cost associated with our omnichannel business.
But our merchandise margin was down as well in the quarter.
Fortunately we were able to more than offset this reduction with a 70-basis-point reduction in SG&amp;A as a percent to sales.
Expense in dollars grew only 1% over last year for the third quarter in spite of the continued omnichannel investment and the added marketing expense.
We benefited in the quarter from the leveraging from the stronger sales.
Also depreciation and amortization was $12 million below last year and our credit profitability increased $8 million over last year.
As expected the benefit from credit was much less relative to a year ago than that experienced during the first half of the year.
Operating income in the quarter was $360 million up 11% over last year in dollars and 30 basis points higher as a percent to sales.
Interest expense was $96 million versus last year's $103 million and tax expense was $87 million compared to last year's $77 million.
The effective tax rate was below last year in the quarter.
We now expect our annual effective tax rate to be approximately 36% which is approximately 95 basis points better than what we expected at the start of the year due to our securing the benefit of additional state and federal income tax credits and settlements throughout this year.
Net income in the quarter was $177 million 22% above last year's $145 million.
Average diluted share count in the quarter was 380.2 million shares down 7% from last year's 407.9 million shares.
And earnings per share on a diluted basis was therefore $0.47 or $0.31 -- 31% above last year's $0.36 per share.
Inventory at the end of the third quarter was up 7% over last year and consistent with our plan.
As I discussed at the end of the second quarter this increase was caused by the calendar shift with last year having the 53rd week there are unusual inventory comparisons at the end of each quarter.
We aim to have inventory in our stores on the same calendar date regardless of when it falls in the fiscal calendar since that helps customers shop.
So for example the last day of the third quarter this year was November 2 versus last year when it was October 27.
So receipts in the first day of November were booked in the third quarter this year and the fourth quarter last year.
And also with our November sales growth planned significantly higher than that in December and January due to the compressed calendar and to a lesser extent the year rounding on Sandy we needed to be sure we had stock in stores and in warehouses to support our growth.
By year end however we do expect inventories to be back at a more normal level of increase relative to the prior year.
This inventory increase net of payables was the primary reason the net cash provided by operations was $70 million below last year.
But remember this is due to timing.
Cash flow from investing activities was $74 million favorable to last year.
So cash flow before financing activities was $4 million above last year.
We utilized $447 million to buy back 10.1 million shares in the third quarter.
Year-to-date we have bought back 27.6 million shares for $1.25 billion.
We also issued $400 million of 10-year debt during the quarter with a coupon of 4 3/8.
As you read in our press release our guidance for the fall season is unchanged.
For comp sales we are expecting 2.5% to 4% for the back half of the year.
We do expect continued pressure on our gross margin rate in the fourth quarter but hope to be able to offset it with lower SG&amp;A as a percent to sales.
Year rounding on the 53rd week however does put pressure on the SG&amp;A rate.
And we continue to expect our annual earnings per share on a diluted basis to be $3.80 to $3.90.
So while we are very satisfied with our performance in the third quarter all eyes at Macy's and at Bloomingdale's are now focused ahead to the fourth quarter.
And we are very excited about what we see for the holiday season.
We feel especially prepared this year.
Our merchants have outstanding assortments planned for every store and online.
Our stores macys.com bloomingdales.com and our mobile apps are being continuously improved to enhance the customer shopping experience.
We have more fulfillment capacity including 4 online fulfillment mega centers as well as 500 Macy's stores now equipped for shipping.
And you will be seeing very compelling marketing again this year.
This year as you know we have 6 fewer days between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
So the holiday shopping season will be shorter and more intense.
We expect a heightened sense of urgency among customers so it's important that we be ready for her every day every time and every way she shops.
Our promotional calendar is full of great fashion and gifts with great value.
And speaking of gifts the merchants have been working all year on a fabulous assortment of items especially for Macy's from our stars Polo Ralph Lauren Tommy Calvin Klein Michael Kors and others.
You will see these store gifts in every door and in the spirit of My Macy's they are being tailored by region.
There will be no doubt that Macy's is the holiday headquarters for gifts.
We are mindful of mitigating factors such as the economy and the shorter season so we have redoubled our efforts to notch up our holiday execution.
We believe we are well positioned to capture more than our fair share of the business.
We hope you are as excited as we are about what you will be seeing at Macy's and Bloomingdale's in holiday 2013.
And now I'm happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our take our first question from Matthew Boss from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Karen at the June Analyst Day you outlined an algorithm it was pretty impressive 5% top line equating to 15% net income and a 20% earnings growth profile.
Any changes to the plan as we think forward? And with that your appetite for potentially increased capital allocation if the backdrop were to stabilize through holiday? So as we look at it there really hasn't been a change.
Our strategies are working our outlook is really unchanged.
And we're always looking for opportunities to invest our capital wisely.
But at this point I think our budget for next year which is approximately $1 billion give or take some is what we expect to spend.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then from a marketing and promotional standpoint.
I mean it sounds like you guys stuck to the outlined game plan the more aggressive game plan you talked about last quarter.
Can you talk about some of the changes that worked in the quarter? And as you talk about doubling down into the holiday what incrementally we should think about into 4Q and into the holiday here? Well I think what we did is when the second quarter started we looked at some of our promotional events and decided that perhaps they had become a bit stale.
So we changed some of the promotional handles.
For example added Doorbusters and Deals of the Day as opposed to morning specials.
We looked at the actual items that we had been promoting and decided some of them needed to be changed or freshened.
And we spent a lot of time analyzing which items drove other business what we call radiated sales so that we could do this intelligently.
We also worked in the stores to make the visual better for the customers in the stores to see the values that we were offering.
So as I said it was a complete team effort.
The stores the websites marketing merchants everybody was involved here.
We'll take our next question from Paul Swinand from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> You talked a little bit at one of the conferences about omnichannel and localization.
I'm wondering if you're doing promotions or omnichannel marketing that's leveraging the localization that you're getting out of My Macy's? Well when we do marketing we are doing localized marketing when there's a particular item or event going on in that community things like the Kentucky Derby or sporting events.
So that is happening.
But so much of the marketing is more nationally driven.
But when you think about the localization of assortments often its sizes colors within our major brands it's not completely different merchandise so the national marketing works well.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Interesting.
And then kind of on the same lines with the license sales is that driving incremental traffic and are they marketing both online and nationally as well in coordination with you? They are.
And we believe that for businesses like Finish Line or Sunglass Hut some of the big installations we do think it helps traffic and it's just part of the overall plan for getting more customers in the door.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned analyzing incremental or ancillary sales from the traffic.
Is that also resulting in sales to other departments? In some cases yes.
And we have a question from Charles Grom from Stern Agee.
Research Division</strong> Karen on your -- on the second quarter call you called out -- I mean you referenced some crowding-out concerns.
Just wondering if you feel as if those pressures abated or did you guys just simply execute better here because there's a pretty big swing in your comp from quarter-to-quarter.
Well I think as we said at the end of the second quarter we needed to make some tweaks in what we were doing keep the fundamental strategies but perhaps execute slightly differently.
And we spent the second quarter putting it all together and working together as opposed to overreacting too quickly.
And what we changed did work in the third quarter as you can see.
Business was strong in August and September strengthened in October but it was strong all quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good to know.
And then just first half of the year you also called out that budget shopper is being a little bit weaker but appears that the value message resonated a little bit more.
Any thoughts on that customer demographic? Well it's hard to tell.
Once again we're reporting first.
So we need to wait and see how other people did.
I think we did well with that customer in the quarter but again I have to wait and see how our competitors did.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just the last question on the guidance the implied fourth quarter view.
It looks like you're projecting roughly speaking about say 50 basis points of margin compression versus last year despite going against your easiest comparison of last year.
So just wondering is that mainly the cycling of the 53rd week or is there some credit gift pack just can you help us out on connecting the dots there? I'm not sure how you came up with that estimate so maybe we should talk offline.
That doesn't sound right.
And we have a question from Kimberly Greenberger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Karen I'm wondering if you can just talk to us about your philosophy in terms of SG&amp;A management.
I think there was obviously a really nice surprise here in the SG&amp;A expense in the third quarter.
How do you think about monitoring your business as it's unfolding and whether to release SG&amp;A dollars or pull in SG&amp;A dollars? And was there any sort of concerted effort in the quarter to be really sort of lean with the SG&amp;A budget? I think Macy's has always been very disciplined on the expense line.
And we always try to be lean but appropriately investing in growing the business.
And I think the third quarter demonstrated that again.
We did invest in marketing as we said we were going to do.
And still from the bottom line perspective did a terrific job I think in terms of the SG&amp;A performance.
But we are always disciplined and always looking for ways of being more efficient.
I don't know that we did anything differently in the third quarter.
And we have Stacie Rabinowitz from Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> So you've been talking on the call about the difference in the marketing this quarter.
And you've been talking a lot about choosing different items: better bolder different kinds of advertising and messaging.
Was there anything any point any category where it was just plain deeper discounting or was it really just a more targeted better executed marketing strategy? No it really was just more targeted better strategy.
I would not say there was any wholesale deeper discounting going on.
Did we give some additional value? Yes in some places we did.
But nothing that obviously hurt the bottom line of the company in any dramatic way.
And we have a question from Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to your comments on the cadence of the quarter.
You mentioned that October you saw some accelerated demand.
Could you just speak at all to kind of the magnitude of October's results versus earlier in the quarter? Well there's a lot of focus on October.
I'm not quite sure why.
The whole quarter was very strong and October did get stronger.
But from my perspective I'd focus on the third quarter in total.
But the strategy worked right out of the gates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then early on the call you spoke about capital plans for next year likely being in that $1 billion range once again.
From that standpoint is the leverage target still 2.4 to 2.7? And if that is the case given how well the cash flow generation the EBITDA growth has been are you still open to adding debt to the balance sheet either this year or next? I think the easiest way of answering that Paul is that it is still the credit rate targets the 2.4 to 2.7.
And my guess is we would stay towards the middle of the high -- lower end of that as opposed to levering up too much.
But again with the EBITDA growing there is some capacity.
And we have a question from Paul Lejuez from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Karen just wondering if you can quantify on the gross margin line how much the shipping cost hurt that line versus the merchandise margin decline? And then just wondering about any specific categories that perhaps took the brunt of the merch margin compression or was it more broad-based? It was broad-based.
And we don't break out the components of margin that way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And how about the performance of mall stores versus off-mall stores Karen? We don't have many off-mall stores.
I mean we have the big freestanding stores like Herald Square 59th Street but almost -- most of our stores are in malls.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Any comment on that store how the progress is going in terms of the refurbishment and what's that doing to business in the Herald Square store? Yes the progress is terrific.
The first and second floors are just about all open again for business look terrific.
And the renovated areas are exceeding our expectations.
So we feel really good about what's been done down here.
And our next question is from Liz Dunn from Macquarie.
I guess as we look at this earlier opening the Thanksgiving opening are you looking at the fact that more people are doing it this year as an opportunity because there will be more traffic and more excitement around it or do you think it's perhaps more of a risk because there will be more places for the consumer to go? No I think that would be an opportunity if you look at it on a balance.
Okay.
As we think about these licensed categories is the net financial impact positive or are you looking at that more as just being able to offer kind of better merchandise to your consumers? And did you see any lift in adjacent categories to those categories that you licensed? Yes.
What we do is as we're looking at licensed categories it's always driven by assortments we want to offer the customer.
So for example in the case of athletic footwear we were not able to offer the best brands the best shoes within those brands to the customer on our own.
And by partnering with Finish Line we've been able to do that.
So it's always driven by trying to give our customers the best assortments we possibly can.
And we often find that it helps.
So for example I think the athletic footwear business is helping our active business as well as some of the millennial categories.
So I think that's good for us.
And I believe Finish Line it's been good for them as well.
Do you think there are any other big categories to do this in? I would say there's some smaller categories but at this point I can't think of anything of major size.
But again we're always looking to be able to offer the customer merchandise that we think she expects from Macy's and try to get it in the best way that we can.
Okay.
And then final question.
Can we just have a little bit more color on the performance of Bloomingdale's during the quarter? Yes.
I'm sorry we always tend to focus on the 90%.
Bloomingdale's had a very good quarter and improved their trend relative to the spring season as well.
So I would say it's fairly comparable performance deltas and continues to do well.
Our next question is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Karen so I'm -- really quickly just on the near-term here.
It looks like the comp for the fourth quarter could be anywhere from about 2% to 4%.
And you've obviously been ahead of it and had a good read on what the promotional environment need to be for the year.
With all that given when you sat down and thought about the range for the fourth quarter what do you think it takes to get to the high end of that range? Well I mean it's a good question.
I'll stop and think about it.
Obviously a little help from the economy would always be helpful to that end and it would just have to mean that our assortments and execution was even that much better than our peers.
And I think would be the 2 factors I would think.
And also by the way weather.
Research Division</strong> Right.
It sounds like you're pretty happy with November trend so far.
I guess how do you gauge how much of what we're seeing is really calendar comparison-related versus a true pickup in demand since the 6 fewer shopping days you mentioned will compress December? I guess...
Well again if you look at the third quarter we were pleased throughout the quarter.
So that's really what our optimism is based on.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just my last question.
So in the quarter there was a nice article run about you guys significantly increasing the space you're allocating to the athletic brand.
I mean maybe you could talk a little bit about why the time is now to get bigger there what did you learn.
And I'm always frankly impressed with how quickly these things are rolled out in your stores after you mentioned it in an article.
So how soon will we see more of these Nike Under Armour North Face's shops rolling out through your stores? Well it's no surprise that active has become an important part of what customers are wearing and needing.
Sometimes it's for athletic endeavor sometimes it's just to run errands.
And we've solid big opportunity here and in fact that's what is happening in terms of performance in the stores.
Research Division</strong> How fast do you see that rolling out? Well all of -- most of our stores today have active and we'll just be expanding them as we see opportunities again from a My Macy's perspective with what kinds of assortments.
And our next question is from Jeff Stein from Northcoast Research.
Karen could you talk a little bit about the millennial brands that you've introduced this year.
You've called out Maison Jules as one of your more successful brands but wondering about some of the others you've introduced.
And it seems that most were rolled out to a limited number of doors for fall.
So I'm wondering based on the performance that you've seen from all of the brands collectively should we look for a material expansion as we head into spring? So I think you'll see big expansions as we go into next year.
As I said that business has done very well.
Maison Jules has been particularly successful.
I think it's probably the first private brand launch that we've done that was done through the lens of My Macy's.
And we actually put different assortments in different regions and different colors and different sizing.
Plus we also incorporated the omnichannel strategies.
So there's tagging on the merchandise that offers extended sizes and colors online.
So interestingly Maison Jules is the first time we've launched a brand where we had what I would call the whole MOM strategy encompassed and it's been very successful.
I would say some of the other brands have -- some have done well some have done less well.
And sometimes it just takes time for a new brand to be tweaked and fine-tuned and improved.
But by and large we feel very good about the brand launches and do expect to have quite a bit of rollout as we go into '14.
Great.
And with respect to your online business can you talk about the momentum in Q3 relative to Q2? Because I understand if I remember correctly that you did see a little bit of weakening in Q2 in your online business.
And what's going on with respect to how you're achieving your growth? Is it more transaction-driven average unit retail or both? Well the online business as we said when we stopped reporting it separately is getting just so hard to measure because so many customers are shopping online going in the store to buy and vice versa.
So it really is hard to break it out and say that -- having said that the business has not weakened and is very strong.
Now that may be customers on the smartphone in the store but nonetheless if you look at online transactions it's done very well.
Great.
Great.
And from a marketing perspective are you also planning to increase your marketing as a percent to sales in Q4 if you hit your comp guidance range? I can't be that specific Jeff.
And our next question is from Richard Jaffe from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Karen just a question on the junior's business.
It seems like mstylelab is an opportunity and any thoughts of why that hasn't performed as well as the better junior's and what might be done in time for Christmas? Yes -- no.
It's been a tough business for us as you know for a while.
We did begin to see some improvement.
Now we are making some changes in the assortment getting a little bit more key item-focused.
And we're feeling a little more encouraged but we are getting much more success with that older millennial customer through the Impulse category.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick thought on the effectiveness of the in-store fulfillment of e-commerce sales.
Any way you can share that with us or that you've been able to gauge how well it's been working? Well it's been working extremely well.
Our stores have done a terrific job executing it and are almost as fast and accurate as our mega centers.
So that's really very good news.
But the real benefit of the store fulfillment actually has -- and hopefully I can do this simply -- but it is enabling us to put fashion assortments into all of our doors whereas we might not have done so before having the ability to use that inventory to satisfy internet demand.
What it's doing is helping our stores have more fashion better assortments and getting more four-wall growth in addition to obviously efficiently getting the goods to our internet customer.
The great example of that right now on the floor is cashmere where we have stocked significantly more fashion colors in all of our Macy’s stores and much less inventory in our mega centers for the fashion colors so that our stores look better and are growing faster.
And at the same time then satisfying internet demand from that inventory.
So it's really the omnichannel dream.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the in-store fulfillment is it meaningful yet or still on the very early stages? No it's meaningful.
I mean you've got 500 doors and my guess is we'll roll it out to most stores by next year.
It is meaningful.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could it someday be a majority of your fulfillment? I don't think it'll ever be a majority but it does enable us to get inventory closer to the customer.
One of the things we were testing as of this quarter is "buy online pickup in store " which based on early reads I think will for sure be rolled out next year.
And so that's another capability that is allowing us to get merchandise to the customer faster in a way that she likes.
And we have a question from Lorraine Hutchinson from BoA.
Research Division</strong> Karen I just wanted to follow up on the merchandise margin.
Do you expect pressure to intensify in the fourth quarter? And then how are you thinking about the need to continue to provide that kind of value in the first half of next year? Yes.
I would say the pressure will continue.
Don't know that it will intensify.
I may get more thoughts on that as I see others report and hear what they're seeing.
But I do expect it to continue.
And in terms of spring it may continue but I don't think -- I'm not sure yet on spring.
We'll have to see.
And we have a question from David Glick from Buckingham Research Group.
Karen most of my questions have been answered.
I just thought perhaps you could give us a little more color on women's apparel.
It sounds like the moderate businesses are picking up a bit in the seasonal categories.
I'm just trying to get a better understanding on sort of moderate versus better trends and how much is really driven by sort of the stronger value message and the favorable trends in seasonal apparel? Well I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that the fall fashion is both wearable and interesting and the customers are responding well.
We have consciously gone after that opening price point business lately and have been very successful there.
Also getting a benefit from the cold weather goods: sweaters cashmere coats et cetera.
Active because as we talked earlier both true active and at-leisure is an up-trending category.
Private brands are doing well.
INC is very strong as our other of the regular price -- I'm sorry the opening price point brands.
So it's really fairly broad-based.
So that doesn't mean your better brands which have been a real strength for you over the last several years that doesn't mean they're slowing down it's just better performance at the moderate level? That's correct.
That's correct.
And we have a question from Priya Ohri-Gupta from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 if I may.
One I was wondering if you might be able to talk a little bit about your inter-quarter traffic trends from month-to-month? And just secondly I was hoping you might be able to give us a little bit more context around how you think about that issuance given that you do look to be sort of in the low to mid range versus your target.
You did come to market in September but it was only for $400 million.
Any thoughts as to why sort of that wasn't a higher figure given the capacity you have and do you look to come multiple times a year? Just any color you can provide.
I think the only color I can provide in terms of debt issuance is what we've said which is again expect us to be in the mid- to lower end of our range targeted range of the 2.4 to 2.7.
And that's really all I can say on that.
And then in terms of trends during the quarter as we have said the August-September period was strong as was October.
So I don't have the traffic patterns or the transactions by-month in front of me.
But it wasn't like business have been weak and suddenly got strong in October.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take a question from Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisory Group.
Karen your license businesses seem to be gaining traction and help to add traffic also.
On the existing licensing business anything different that they're doing that you're learning from at Macy's or Bloomingdale's? And should we be looking for new licensed businesses to be added? Not that I know of in terms of what we're learning but I'm sure we do both in terms of assortments as well as selling service because we're always looking to learn from any of our partners.
And as I said earlier I don't expect any major new categories to be licensed.
But we are always trying to find ways of improving our offering to the customer so there may be something at some point.
And then just on the tax rate does it stay at this level for 2014? At this point I would say no.
My suspicion is -- and again I don't have the full plan yet -- but my suspicion is it will go back to the 37%-like level.
We have a question from Michael Exstein from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Karen a couple of just very quick ones.
Was there less disruption to the business from the Herald Square renovation this quarter than previous quarters number one? Number two was women's the top-performing area in terms of percentage growth? Yes let me do those 2 then you can continue.
There was less disruption from Herald Square.
There was actually as much disruption but there's more good news so the net was favorable this year to a year ago in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> And what about women's was that the top percentage gainer for the quarter? We don't disclose those numbers.
Research Division</strong> And then finally what would be the implications for the inventory if you added back the inventory that was in place in the licensed businesses that -- formerly owned businesses that are now licensed in terms of what would be the like-to-like inventory year-over-year? Well if you did if -- let me give it a different way.
Comp inventory was just slightly higher Michael.
So it's not a big factor.
Maybe a 1%.
Yes -- no I've been focused on the versus-plan comparisons but a slight impact.
And we have a question from Rob Wilson from Tiburon Research.
Inc.</strong> Karen the $8 million higher credit income in Q3 what should we expect in Q4? And will that be impacted by the extra week last year? Well we have not given guidance by quarter.
We have said that the back half of the year would be much less of an increase than the first half.
So I don't expect anything materially different in the fourth quarter than the third quarter but we really have not given guidance on that.
Inc.</strong> So not necessary any real impact from that extra week last year? Again I'm not giving guidance by quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And one last question.
The tax rate is it -- I guess my math would suggest you're expecting a higher tax rate in Q4 than the first 3 quarters of the year.
Is that correct? That's correct.
And that relates to the timing of settlements and the receipt of credits.
We have a question from Brian Roenick from BLR Capital Partners.
Just Karen in the fourth quarter as a result of the 53rd week comparison what do you expect the spread to be between top line and same-store sales? I'm sorry you've caught me by surprise.
My guess is it will be sort of 4.5-ish kind of points.
Sort of that kind of a range.
And Stephen Grambling from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Karen just a bit of a follow-up to Richard and Lorraine's questions.
But the guidance suggests that you'll have a third straight year of gross margin pressure and I realize part of that has been shipping from online and now some merchandise margin pressure.
But can you help us frame the longer-term trajectory of gross margin and maybe specifically address the opportunity from optimizing inventory across channels? Well my view is and I've said this forever that the long-term prospect on gross margin rate should be flattish there will be quarters and times where it goes up or down.
But again I think flattish is the right long-term perspective.
Research Division</strong> And then when we think about optimizing inventory and I guess this goes along the getting better fashion brands is there any way to frame that opportunity and how big that could be? No.
There really isn't.
I mean we obviously helped it as we can better optimize inventory we can perhaps improve gross margin rate.
But at this point I think I'd urge people to think flattish.
And our next question is from Craig Hutson from Loop Capital.
Balance sheet-related question.
By my count you have at the end of the latest quarter 14 issues that have a 7% or higher coupon which makes you look considerably different than the rest of your investment-grade peers.
And now that you're suddenly investment-grade and have that 2.4x to 2.7x leverage target what is the rationale for not trying to clean up the balance sheet and go after and tender for a lot of those high-cost debt? We constantly do the math on that.
And it gets to an issue of what the net present value of these kinds of transactions are.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Bernard Sosnick from Gilford Securities.
Research Division</strong> Karen yesterday I was at the Bay Shore mall in Long Island where you have a new store.
The retailers there say traffic in the mall has picked up since the store opened which implies a good performance for the store.
I'm wondering if you could give us a little color on that.
But my main point is that the appearance of the store is really nice but different than from what you have in your traditional stores to a certain degree.
From that can we judge that there were thoughts that you might have with regard to renovations of the stores going forward? And if so could you give us some thoughts on that? Yes unfortunately Bernie I don't know the answer to the question.
I hear the store looks spectacular.
We are very happy with it.
I think everybody on the team has now been there except for me.
So unfortunately I don't know the answer to your question.
I'll get it and get back to you.
But I know we are very pleased with how it looks and how it's doing.
Research Division</strong> Yes I -- it's the positive impression that I got that caused me to ask the question.
Good.
Well I'll find that and get back to you.
Yes thanks.
And we'll take our final question from Greg Hessler from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
At this time I'll turn the conference over back to Karen Hoguet for any final closing remarks.
Great.
I just want to thank you all for your support and your interest in Macy's.
And hopefully you'll do a lot of shopping with us during the fourth quarter.
Thanks and I'll talk to you all soon.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation today.
Good morning and welcome to Macy’s Incorporated Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
And I'd now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Becky.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy’s call.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the Company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the Company including the risks specified in the Company's most recently filed Form 10-K.
As you saw in our press release our sales in January were very disappointing.
But in spite of that we ended the quarter and the year very strong in terms of our operating income earnings per share and cash flow.
Our adjusted earnings per share grew by 16% in 2013 which is our fifth year of double-digit EPS growth.
Starting in 2009 when the restructured the Company and began implementing our M.O.M.
strategy My Macy’s Omnichannel and Magic Selling.
This morning I will talk first about the quarter and then the full-year.
After that I'll discuss our key assumptions in planning 2014.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $9 202 000 000 up 1.4% on a comp basis and up 2.3% on a comp basis together with sales and license department.
The 2.3% is really the best metrics for gauging customer demand.
Given the conversion of some of our businesses from owned to leased such as the Athletic Shoes during the year.
This is really the only way to attract customer purchases on a comparable basis to last year.
And on an ongoing basis even after a conversion customers make shoes a licensed item versus owned in a similar category.
So we'll continue to focus on this metrics.
Also you will note that total sales were down 1.6% in the quarter because we are comparing this year’s 13 week quarter to last year's 14 week.
We were pleased with our November-December sales but in January our sales fell well short of what we had planned.
As a result we miss the sales guidance that we had provided at the start of the month.
Clearly much of this weakness resulted from the bitter cold temperatures and the frequent snow events in January but we’d not attribute all of the weakness to the weather.
Back in August we were assuming 2.5% to 4% comp sales increase for the second half of the year which we then updated to 2.8% to 2.9% after December.
However the weak January brought our comp sales for the second half of the year down to 2.3% or 3.2% including sales in license department and well below what we had hoped 3% is feeling like a good performance compared to our competitors.
The strongest businesses in the quarter were handbags cold weather apparel and accessories our older Millennial apparel or Impulse area Men's dress apparel and shoes luggage and furniture and mattresses.
I should also add that we continue to see strengthening in the women's apparel categories overall which is a very good sign.
Private brands were part of the reason for the strengthening in the women's apparel category.
The weaker businesses in the quarter relative to their prior trend included watches fragrances housewares and tabletop.
Juniors continue to be weak but we did see some improvement in trend especially the dressier parts of the business.
Geographically as you may suspect our strongest sales performances were across the South where weather was not as much of a factor.
We also continue to see strength in all of our Omnichannel transactions whether it would be online purchasing including transactions on mobile devices shipping from stores to satisfy online demand and shipping from warehouses to satisfy store demand.
We also tested "buy online pickup in store " this fall and based on the positive results we’re not -- now rolling this out to all of our stores during the spring season.
We continue to find our stores to be important even into our online only buyers whether it would be to check out a color try something on browse to get ideas or make a return.
Bloomingdale's had a better fourth-quarter than Macy's in part because we experienced less weakness in January in these stores.
As with Macy's the Omnichannel transactions helped fuel Bloomingdale's growth.
Average unit retail in the fourth quarter was up approximately 1% with transactions down just under 1% and units per transactions up a little more than 1%.
The gross margin rate in the fourth quarter was 40.6% flat with last year.
We are very pleased with that result which was better than expected.
Inventory at the end of the quarter was up 4.7% or 4% on a comp basis.
This is higher than we had planned as a result of the weak January sales.
But this inventory is in the right category so it doesn't pose a significant markdown risk.
We will move this inventory out during the first quarter and hopefully without a noticeable margin impact.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $2.3 billion down $99 million or 4.1% versus last year.
This reduction is in part due to last year’s extra week in the quarter.
But as a percent of sales SG&amp;A was 25% 70 basis points below last year.
We did benefit in the quarter from $58 million in asset sale gains a little more than half of which had been planned and included in our prior guidance.
We did not include the other transactions in our guidance even in early January because we were not sure that they were going to close in 2013.
This was one of the reasons we were able to beat the upper end of our previous guidance in spite of the weaker sales.
We were also pleased with our credit results in the quarter.
Credit income was $6 million above last year consistent with expectations.
The usage of our card as measured by penetration was 47.2% up 20 basis points over last year.
This is a positive trend that we hope will continue into 2014.
Operating income excluding impairments store closings and other costs in the fourth quarter was $1.437 billion or 2.9% above last year's $1.396 billion.
And as a percent of sales operating income in the quarter on this basis was 15.6% 70 basis points over last year.
We booked in the quarter $88 million of impairment store closings and other costs of which approximately $45 million are non-cash charges.
This is significantly less than the original estimate of $120 million to $135 million.
This is largely because we were able to place many more associates than we had expected into open jobs after their positions were eliminated.
In the end we laid off approximately 1 800 employees instead of the original estimate of 2 500 and this will not impact the expectation of the $100 million in annual cost savings.
Interest expense in the quarter was $99 million; $7 million lower than last year.
Tax expense was $439 million $17 million higher than last year.
As a rate though it was 35.1% compared to last year's 36.6%.
Our tax expense in the quarter included a $13 million adjustment to evaluation allowance because we now anticipate being able to utilize more state loss carryforwards than previously expected.
This added $0.03 to our earnings per share and had not been anticipated in our guidance.
Diluted EPS excluding the impairment store closing costs and other costs was $2.31 in the fourth quarter 12.7% above last year's $2.05 on the same basis.
For the full year 2013 our sales were $27.931 billion up 1.9% on a comp basis or 2.8% together with sales from licensed businesses.
This fell below our expected 3.5% comp guidance at this time a year ago but our earnings per share excluding the impairment store closing and other costs was $4 for 2013 which beat the guidance that we had provided at this time last year of $3.90 to $3.95.
As you'll remember we had lowered the guidance to $3.80 to $3.90 in August after our weak second quarter.
We are very happy that we were able to make up that quarter's shortfall during the fall season even without above expectation sales and were able to beat our original guidance.
And while our sales were below our own expectations we hoped that our performance relative to competitors looks strong when we see what everyone reports as it did through the first nine months of the year.
Our gross margin rate for the full year fell 20 basis points below last year due largely to the impact of shipping charges associated with our Omnichannel transactions.
Merchandize margins were just slightly down as a result of increased promotional activities needed to fuel the business especially in the third quarter.
SG&amp;A ended up below last year in dollars and 50 basis points below last year as a percent to sales.
This was due to a good expense management throughout the company together with asset sales gains $68 million of higher credit income and $29 million lower depreciation and amortization.
In part these benefits were offset by our continued investments related to our Omnichannel strategy.
Operating income excluding impairments store closing and other costs for the full year was $2.766 billion up 3.8% over last year and as a percent of sales up 30 basis points.
Adjusted EBITDA as a percent of sales was 13.6% for 2013 up 20 basis points over 2012.
We continue to march towards our 14% target for EBITDA as a percent of sales.
Average share count for the year was 385 million shares which is 7% below last year as a result of our buyback during the year of 33.6 million shares for approximately $1.6 billion.
And EPS on a diluted basis excluding the charges previously mentioned was $4 or 15.6% above last year on this basis.
Return on invested capital was 21.4% 20 basis points over last year.
We are very pleased with our performance over the past four years on this metric.
Cash provided by operating activities net of investments was $1.761 billion or $363 million higher than last year.
This was due to higher EBITDA lower capital spending as well as higher asset sales.
The capital spending did fall below our expectations by $62 million due to timing and much of this will carry over to 2014 as I will discuss in a few minutes.
The cash flow generated by the company is very strong enabling us to invest in profitable growth while still returning significant cash to our shareholders.
In spring of 2013 we increased our dividend by 25% to $1 a year and we also bought back $1.6 billion of stock during the year which is approximately $200 million more than the prior year.
We are proud of our performance this year and our confident in our strategies.
We are focused on identifying growth opportunities whether it be in a specific store or an entire market with the third party vendor or a private brand and owned business or a licensed business in-store online or a combination of both and I can go on and on.
Our M.O.M.
strategies My Macy's localization Omnichannel and Magic Selling continue to gain traction.
The retail environment is evolving rapidly and I believe that our 2013 performance demonstrates that we are making the necessary changes to our business model so that we can continue to compete effectively and profitability.
But let's now look to 2014 so you can hear some of what we're doing to accelerate our progress.
Let's start with My Macy's.
We continue to find ways to leverage technology to help us better localize assortments.
We also continue to refine our ethnicity strategies for localized growth.
There are so many opportunities to accelerate our growth by applying a My Macy's lens to all of our merchandized strategies.
Importantly we remain committed to stores which we believe are important for us to connect with customers and local communities.
We are also very focused on developing Omnichannel strategies that will enable us to better serve our customers and attract new customers as well.
Increase collaboration between our stores and dot-com teams is enabling us to identify new growth opportunities and ways to be more productive.
The key to Omnichannel's success will be the combination of the digital world with our stores to make both better shopping experiences for our customers.
Magic Selling also continues to be important to us and we have expanded the mindset beyond stores to include all customers facing environment such as phone live chat and big ticket delivery.
We need to make Magic in all of our customer interactions not just on the selling floor.
We're confident that our MOM strategies and our focus on our major power house brands many of which are exclusive to us will continue to help us perform well.
There is lot of feel good about for 2014 and fortunately starting around Valentines Day our sales trend began to recover.
Our guidance for 2014 sales and EPS is unchanged.
For comp sales growth we are assuming 2.5% to 3% and we are guiding for earnings per share on a diluted basis of $4.40 to $4.50.
Let me now list off I think it's 11 other key planning assumptions.
First for the year we're expecting comp sales including sales from licensed departments to grow only slightly faster than comp sales as we year round on the finish line conversion midway through the first quarter.
Two we expect total sales growth to be approximately the same as comp sales through this year.
Three our sales plan for the first half of the year assumes a higher comp gain in the second quarter than in the first quarter.
This is due to the fact that we are year rounding a stronger first quarter and a weaker second quarter as well as a promotional shift at the end of the first quarter.
The same is likely to be true between the third and fourth quarters.
Four for gross margin rate we are assuming a flattish to down slightly gross margin rate for the year.
Five credit is expected to produce more EBIT than last year but with significantly less of an increase than we’ve experienced in prior years.
Six depreciation and amortization is assumed to be approximately $1 040 000 000 which is slightly above 2013.
Seven interest expense is assumed to be approximately $390 million for the year.
As the tax rate for 2014 we are assuming a lower effective tax rate of 36.4% this is lower than our normal assumption due to tax credits we are now receiving relating to a remodel of our Herald Square store.
Nine with the pension plan now frozen our retirement expense will change dramatically.
Pension expense is assumed to turn into income in 2014 and the 401k match will go up significantly as we’re shifting our retirement benefits more to our defined contribution plan.
Net-net we are assuming approximately $150 million of lower expense in retirement expense in total much of which is being used to offset higher healthcare costs.
Ten we have $453 million of debt maturing in July which we expect to refinance during the year.
Our target leverage ratio remains 2.4 to 2.7 times.
And the eleventh assumption is that CapEx is assumed to be $1 050 000 000 with that $50 million being pushed out from 2013.
So that’s a quick overview of our key planning assumptions for 2014.
I always find the year end to be a good time to just stop and reflect.
To fully appreciate where our company stand’s going into 2014 consider the contrast to where we were just five years ago when we started our journey as a restructured company with our MOM strategy.
Concurrently we were continuing to invest aggressively in online infrastructure talent and fulfillment.
Since that time we have become a fundamentally different company that is able to serve customer needs no matter how that customer prefers to shop.
We can strategically access and manage inventories across channels.
We have balanced our ability to offer localized fashion differentiation and newness while also delivering the value and service that our customers expect and demand.
We have built a strong and talented organization at all levels.
We have returned value to our shareholders through stock buybacks and dividends while also achieving investment grade ratings.
We are today a strong and stable company with a consistent track record in growing sales earnings and cash flow.
We have been able to reliably increase our ROIC and EBITDA as a percent of sales.
It goes without saying that we are very proud of our people and our accomplishments and we appreciate your strong interest in and support for Macy's and Bloomingdale's as we embark and what we expect will be another successful year in 2014.
I’ll stop here and take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question today from Matthew Boss with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi Karen good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Something that seems like it's definitely that Macy’s apart is the brands and the partnerships that you’ve established; can you talk about some of the notable collaborations in the fourth quarter as well as some of the learning’s from the marketing changes that you made out of 2Q so far.
Well we have got spectacular vendor partnerships with all of the major brands and again if I start listing I’m afraid I’ll drop somebody accidentally also by the way our private brands.
But one of the major changes that happened in ’09 when we centralized all of the merchandise functions was the ability to collaborate much more closely and we believe passionately in what we call these power brands and we’re working very hard with them so that they can grow our business aggressively within our stores and online.
Great.
And then look I think we all understand weather and the impact that it's had on retail.
Can you talk a little about what you saw in less weather impacted areas during the quarter and obviously you commented on some of the business post Valentine's Day but was this broad based and clearly a better sign it sounds like? Yes I mean in January -- in November and December our business was strong really across the country whilst that continue to strengthen this out.
In January there was much more of a difference between sort of the north and the south.
There was some weaker business in the non-weather impacted areas that’s why I said during the call that I don’t think its all weather in January but the good news is starting in Valentines Day our boats are rising and so we’re feeling very good about the trend.
Great.
Best of luck and hopefully those boats continue to rise.
I agree with you.
Thanks Matt.
And we’ll now take a question from Charles Grom with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Charles.
Fantastic performance obviously on the gross margin I don’t think that’s the big surprise this morning.
So just when you look at over the next couple of years what do you think the puts and takes are for the company? Well I think the key thing is the hope is that we will accelerate sales growth and continue to increase the EBITDA rate up to the 14%.
And I think it will be terrific performance continuing to earn profits as well as the cash flow that we generate.
Okay.
And anything like longer term structural changes with ecommerce as it continues to grow and what the implications could be for gross margins? I’m not sure about the gross margin piece.
One of the things we continue to work on is how to make our inventory more productive across channels.
That may in fact lead to helping us get that EBITDA rata.
Not sure that it would be gross margin or expense but that is going to be an important strategy.
Okay.
And just a couple of clarifications I appreciate the 11 points on guidance but the buyback how much we assume or what do you guys assuming in that 4.40 to 4.50? We don't disclose that though it is included in the 4.40 to 4.50.
Okay that's what I thought.
And then just on the fourth quarter that 58 million geographically that goes as a contra SG&amp;A is that where it placed? Yes.
Okay.
It was multiple asset sales and as I said a little bit more than half of that had been planned and we were happy that future transactions did close right at the end of the year.
Okay great.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We'll now take a question from Heather Balsky with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
So I guess first on the gross margin you guys had gotten a little bit more promotional in the third quarter and you had expected that to continue into the fourth.
And then also given the growth of ecommerce how were you able to keep gross margins steady in 4Q? Well I think we have a spectacular merchant organization that works very closely with our vendors as well as our marketing team to plan out profitable promotions and I think they just did a spectacular job in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up you had spoken also that you're getting smarter about using data to plan your promotions.
Any learning during 4Q using that strategy and how do you think about it in the first half of next year or this year I guess? Well I think every major event is benefiting from that because we learnt from the prior ones what items are generating what we call radiated sales and things like that what kinds of promotions are impacting which customers.
So that's just constantly helping us and to do a better job at growing the business profitably.
Great thank you.
We'll now go to Oliver Chen with Citigroup.
Karen congratulations on a great year.
Thank you.
Regarding your comments and your details as you think about your inventory positions could you just elaborate on some of your strategies to move the inventory out? And also on your comments on a look forward to a more normalized pattern of shopping and your competence there what are the things that we should fixate in terms of that happening in the marketplace given relatively kind of confusing consumer spending environment we're undergoing right now? To that one don't know that I would use the word confusing.
I think the key thing is we'll just see what sales look like at the end of the first quarter we'll take note and keep moving from there.
Okay.
And then as you move inventory out what's the main kind of tactical levers that you're pulling in order to…? We have major events planned throughout the first quarter and so we'll obviously use those events to clear inventory.
Okay thank you.
And regarding the later Easter could you give us any comments there and things we should think about as we look at our models regarding expectations? Well I do think the later Easter is good for retail so that could be helpful.
And I had said earlier we do expect the second quarter comp to be higher than the first quarter.
Beyond that I think that really is all I can say.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Thank you.
Next is Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great thanks.
Nice cap to a really terrific year Karen.
Thanks Kimberly.
I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit more about your Omnichannel initiatives.
I know you're testing any number of different ideas or strategies at any time.
Are there any of those tests that are going on here in the first half of 2014 that you can share with us? And then reflecting back on 2013 ecommerce continued to be a really nice contributor to your sales growth.
Is there evidence that you have that you're able to capture a new customer through some of these Omnichannel initiatives? And what were the sort of strategies that you think helped drive growth in that channel last year? Wow that's a lot of questions.
Let me try to summarize some of it.
I think the key thing is we are testing lots of things as we go through the first quarter whether it be relating to our assortments or how to be more efficient in terms of the store fulfillment.
We talked about the buy online pick up in-store.
We're also testing strategies for intensifying our service levels with in-stores so sometimes it's not all Omnichannel but related to that.
And again we're trying to scientifically measure all of these results as we go so that's going to be very important.
If I think about things that are making us successful online frankly it's very similar to what's making us successful in-store which is merchandizing strategies and without the right assortments and the right service levels it almost doesn't matter if you have sexy technology and I think that's what's driving our Omnichannel business today.
You mentioned that your ecommerce your dot-com merchants and organization are working very very closely with the store teams.
I think that's a little bit of a change over the last three to five years.
Is there still more opportunity in that partnership to either yield better in-store benefits better online benefits or just broadly speaking say other sales or margin benefits? Absolutely.
We're really at the beginning stages there.
We've tested it in some areas.
We've got a major test going on right now in the dress area where we actually have one combined inventory between channels.
We think that's going to be very important as we go forward.
The other thing that we're doing which I think is important is that we're moving people around so that they get different experiences whether it be store merchandizing or dot-com and that's helping also to enhance really this collaboration.
So I would say we are at the very early stages of that and that's why I'm so excited about the growth going forward because I think the combination of these teams working together is going to be very powerful.
Terrific.
Thanks Karen.
We'll go to Paul Swinand with Morningstar Investment Research.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking all the questions.
Sure.
I want to ask about some of the – in your prepared remarks you have – I think you said watches fragrances home and juniors were tough.
Do you think that had something to do with the weather or do you think those are delayed purchases because maybe people will need to browse the stores for them and have they picked up with the Valentine's Day list that you were talking about? Well that could be the case.
Fragrances has certainly picked up so that's one example where there has been a change in trend.
Watches as we know we've gotten spoiled with.
It's been unbelievably strong and I would say it's still good relative to much of the store but not nearly as good as it had been.
So again there are different juniors I talked about we are making improvements there so it's still weaker relative to last year but making a lot of progress.
And house wares and table top we hope will get better this year.
Any comments or any color about the price points or the geographies on watches or home? No.
I don't think either of those are really the issue.
By the way it's not all of home.
We had great business in furniture and mattresses.
We had very good business in home textile sheets and towels so it's not all of home that's weak.
Much of home is in the very strong category.
Okay interesting.
Thank you.
And quickly about the online business when you've got through your extreme weather events does online actually pick up a little? In other words did your strength online actually offset what was maybe even a weaker actual traffic environment than we realize? I wish no.
I mean it did pick up but I think people were watching the weather and not focusing on shopping.
Yes it did pick up but not anywhere close to – I mean if you think about how much of our business is done in-stores that just isn't going to happen at least not yet.
Right okay great.
Thank you and best of luck.
Thanks so much.
We'll go to Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
Hi Karen.
It's Paul Lejuez.
Let me think about your 2014 guidance.
What are your assumptions as far as the competitive landscape just overall promotional environment particularly as you think about how next holiday will look relative to this past year since it was such a promotional one? I know you had said specifically on the comp drivers how do you think about transactions versus average ticket size in terms of what would drive your comp assumption? Thanks.
Honestly I think every year is promotional in this business so I don't expect it to get better or worst in terms of our guidance.
And in terms of AUR for 2014 we've got lots of different assumptions that could get us there.
We are not expecting a huge increase in AUR for the year but hopefully not a decline.
Got you.
And maybe just a last one inventory; how should we think about your plans throughout the year inventory versus sales? Well you tend to want your inventory increase to be comparable to your comp growth expectations and obviously we’re high right now at 4%.
So that’s why the expectation is that that will come down by the end of the first quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks and good luck.
Thank you very much.
Next is Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Hi good morning Karen.
Just a follow-up on the last question.
If you look at weakness in mall traffic and you’re kind of thinking perhaps about a flattish maybe up slightly AUR.
It would seem that that creates quite a gap to get into that 2.5% to 3% comp increase even with the benefit of stronger online growth.
So I am wondering kind of how you’re thinking about that how you get to the 2.5% to 3%? Well I mean I think it's a combination of things.
I do think that transaction should go up this year and units per transaction we’re always trying to increase.
So again there’s lots of different formulas that can get us there mathematically also mix is a big part of that also.
Right.
So we’re feeling pretty confident Jeff.
Okay.
And as far as the Millennial collections that you launched last year can you talk about which ones did well which ones did not and plans to roll the successful ones out to additional doors that’s here? No this year was very good about many of them and I probably won't hit all the ones that we’re feeling good about but certainly Bar III and Maison Jules are private brands.
We do feel great about and we’ll continue to roll them out.
As I said a few minutes ago the impulse part of our business was very strong in 2013 including active which was also very strong which again we consider is part of that business.
So we're feeling good about that and the younger millennial as I said we're making some progress albeit fourth quarter wasn’t quite where we’d like it to be yet but we think that a year from now we will be feeling much better about that.
Great.
And one final question Karen can you just bring sub to date on how many Finish Line lease departments you have now and what the plan is for the rollout for the remainder of the year? Yes I don’t know the specific number.
I’ll have Matt call you with it Jeff sorry.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll go to Robert Drbul with Nomura Securities.
Hi good morning Karen.
Hi Bob.
Just got a couple of questions.
On the overall business can you talk a little bit about how the collection businesses are performing in some of the Denim businesses? And then Bloomingdale’s and the Bloomingdale’s outlet Karen you said Bloomingdale’s actually did well I think in specifically January when things got a little choppy.
Just maybe a little bit more insight into that business for us.
Yes the outlet business had a good fourth quarter but hurt by weather in January but November December was feeling stronger which was very encouraging.
And then on collections in Denim not as strongest we have liked in the fourth quarter but I wouldn’t put it in the weakness category.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
We’ll go to Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks good morning Karen.
Good morning Paul.
In the guidance you provided I believe you mentioned that interest expense would be roughly in line with the 2013 totals.
And so I just wanted to enquire about your thoughts on adding back to the balance sheet given such a strong operating performance this past year it does seem like you're on track to be at the very low end of your targeted leverage ratio if not below as we look forward over the next 12 months? I think what you say is correct we're at the low end of the range and our plans are that we haven't decided exactly yet.
Obviously a lot of that will depend on market conditions and we’ll see as we go through the year.
Got it.
But not included in the guidance at this point in time? Refinancing the $453 million is and should we do more if that could go up a little bit.
Understood.
And then just for clarification with SG&amp;A the $58 million was assets sell gains that was about $0.10 or so in my quick math you said that was they were included when you gave.
A little more than half of it had been included in our original guidance.
Okay.
And a little bit less than half had not been.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just going forward though obviously you have the reorganization providing some expense savings throughout ’14.
If you can just kind of walk through some of the headwinds and tailwinds on some of the other line items that’s going to impact expenses whether it's healthcare or just overall.
But I think as we said credit should be helpful the savings and retirement expense.
The savings from the cost savings program all are helpful.
On the other side we’ve got healthcare going up and also we have got the continued investment in the Omnichannel world those are probably the big factors.
Got it.
All right.
Thanks a lot Karen.
Next is Michael Exstein with Crédit Suisse.
Good morning Karen.
This is Lauren Thompson on Michael’s behalf.
We just have one question you said your license department commissions are included in net sales.
Is there any other line items in your P&amp;L we should be thinking about that are impacted by the licensed category? Well it goes into gross margin as well.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And now we’ll go to Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning Karen thanks for taking my question.
Just a follow up on that to take Paul’s comments about SG&amp;A are there any additional opportunities to streamline the organization longer term.
I think you also discussed how we should be thinking about flow through next year should the environment maybe a key plan? I am not sure.
Well in terms of the first question we’re always looking for opportunities to more cost deceptively operate our business.
I don’t see any major changes.
Obviously we just announced a major restructuring.
But we’re constantly looking to improve incrementally as we go.
And again as we march to that 14% EBITDA rate that’s always a piece of it but I don’t see any major changes happening in the near future.
And then on the second question which was just how we should be thinking about flow through depending on the top line? Well hopefully if the sales are higher that will help achieve a higher EBITDA rate because it should be at a higher rate and obviously help accelerate earnings growth beyond what we said.
Okay.
And then one other clarification just on the Omnichannel how is the assortment changed online is there anyway you can quantify that in terms of the skews and additional opportunities other than ones you’ve already outlined with private label? Well I don’t know how to quantify the -- I am not sure exactly what your question is but what we're trying to do is have our assortments online be representative of what we’ve got in store and have them -- have more available online and what's available in store but to be congruent.
Okay that’s helpful.
Good luck.
Thanks.
We’ll go to Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> Thanks very much Karen and just a follow-on question to Omnichannel a lot of initiates in place and a lot of success.
I am wondering how far along perhaps on a percentage basis you're in terms of including Omnichannel where you think it should be and also how much it might cost to get there? Well I think I mean the cost we’re absorbing as we go and fortunately I’ve been able to do that and still generate profitable growth.
I would say we’re just really in the early stages of accomplishing all that we think we can do.
As I said during the call the key will be picking the best of the digital world and putting it into our stores and at the same time picking the best of our stores and putting that into the digital world.
And it's complicated and will take time but we’re very much committed to making that happen.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> And have you been able to broaden any assortments online compared to what's in stores and how much broader are they now? Well somewhat so but within the categories primarily that we offer.
So often we can use online for extended sizes often we use online to test and if the test is successful we’ll put it into the stores.
Or if we find that the online sales of lets say extended sizes does very well we’ll bring that assortment into stores.
So it's really very interesting to see how the two can interrelate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> And we should interpret early stages as not even half way there is that fair to say.
Yes I don’t even know what there will be because I think the world is going to continue to evolve.
But I think the key thing to remember is the keys to success in Omnichannel are going to be the keys to success in retailing in general and again the strong merchant store organization technology groups that we have is really going to what will pay us here for us as we go forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.</strong> Right.
Thank you very much.
We'll go to Michael Binetti with UBS.
Good morning Karen.
Congrats on a great quarter and great year.
Thank you.
I hate to bore you with a quick accounting question but could you explain to me how pension becomes an income line and is that just related to funding levels last year versus change in interest…? It has to do with the benefits going forward being frozen but if you want we can talk to you later and take you through the detail.
Okay.
Well is it an income line beyond 2014 is the quick question I suppose? You know what I don't have that in front of me but I suspect it is.
Okay.
And then maybe more interestingly on the women's business it's obviously an area…? That's much more… I think you waited a long time to tell us… You bet.
Can you tell us what you think is helping drive that – I mean it's just the old fashion wardrobe refresh or has there been an adjustment on brand on promotional strategy or perhaps…? Yes yes and yes.
I don't think it's just – it happened accidently.
I think our team put together a great strategy.
A lot of it was relating to items and also I would say more focused on opening price points.
But we've done very well at the better price points too.
Our I&amp;C brand had a spectacular year last year but so did Style &amp; Co and Jennifer Moore.
So again I think the team just is working very well on the assortment strategy as well as the marketing.
Okay.
And if I can have one last question since you mentioned how reflective you are at your end if you look back on the year could you talk about any of the categories that you could have seen better results in 2013 that could be an opportunity as we look ahead to '14 we say this is where we could improve? That's a good question.
My hope always is that the categories we did well and we'll continue and we'll fix everything else but I've spent 30 years in the business I think that maybe too optimistic.
So I think again wherever you see weakness for example juniors I do think we're going to see improved business this year.
I like what the merchants are thinking about.
That should be helpful.
I think we're going to continue to see great results in impulse particularly on some of the new brands and also active.
The coat cold weather business will be interesting next year now that we finally had a great year after two horrible years and I think women's apparel was just poised to take off so I feel really good about that.
Based on our core we'll continue strong so I guess I'm fairly optimistic throughout the store.
All right thanks a lot.
Congrats.
We'll go to Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
Hi.
Thanks.
Let me add my congratulations on a great finish to the year.
Thanks Liz.
I guess I'm interested in your comment that you see multiple opportunities for an acceleration of sales growth.
Obviously the millennial strategy is a big piece of this.
Am I right that this ethnicity strategy that you sort of referenced is something you haven't talked a lot about in the past and are there others that you're comfortable – other strategies that you're comfortable naming at this point? Well I think we had started with My Macy's beginning to think about that.
We started with the tourist strategy which is very different in different parts of the country and obviously as you look at the population base there are stores in local areas where you need to think through the Latina strategy or an African-American strategy or Asian.
But interestingly there isn't one Latina strategy because in different parts of the country and different countries of origin it can be very different same for the Asian.
This is where My Macy's is just helping us so much with that local input coming from the field is terrific.
So we have been working on this but it just gets better and better and better and we incorporate not only the merchandizing but the marketing which is a big part of the store events and also visual in the stores.
So we just get better and better at it every year.
Okay great.
And then relative to the restructuring and cost savings that you've outlined in the past when you've done any sort of restructuring or merging of divisions the cost savings have actually turned out to be better than expected because there is sort of best practices and that sort of thing that you don't necessarily model in.
Is it fair to assume that you've taken the same sort of conservative approach to how you've planned out the cost savings this time? I hope so but I don't think so because this is different than a division consolidation but hopefully I'm wrong.
But at this point I would not count on that.
Okay.
And then finally we haven't talked about Bloomingdale's Outlet for a while.
Could you just update us on where that stands? Yes sorry we had just talked about it.
I think the Outlets had a good fourth quarter.
January was tough with the weather but we're feeling better and better about the business there.
I'm sorry I meant in terms of like gross expectations or – I apologize if I missed it I got pulled off the line for a second.
No that's fine.
I think that we're beginning to think about where else to put the Bloomingdale's Outlet stores where have they done the best where would that work do [ph].
My guess is it's probably not '14 but in '15 we'll start to see acceleration of that growth.
Great thanks.
Next is Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Good morning Karen and congratulations.
Thanks Dana.
As you think about Omnichannel and learning from it what's the marketing impact from it? Is there any qualitative implications that makes sense for marketing and expanding the customer base whether it's from your credit cardholders or from non-credit cardholders? Yes absolutely.
And in the way the marketing team is thinking about how the best markets for our customers is changing dramatically with Omnichannel and all the digital technologies available to them.
So we're thinking about how can we market better across channels and really trying to get – the word we're using now is Omnichannel engagement because very often we'll find people as I said earlier who only purchase online and yet we know they're spending a lot of time in our stores.
And so as the marketers are thinking about that and driving Omnichannel behavior it's becoming very interesting changes in the strategy.
Does the change in marketing spend at all? Has not yet.
Got it.
Perfect.
Thank you.
We'll go to Stacie Rabinowitz with Consumer Edge Research.
Hi.
I was just wondering as you add licensed departments very slowly but – I was in the store the other day and it felt like almost the whole first floor was starting to become licensed.
Do you see additional opportunities there? Of Macy's? Of Macy's yes.
I was trying to return something and especially with the – there was the cosmetics there was the sunglasses.
Well cosmetics is all-in owned business so – anyway keep going with your question.
Just as you're talked about sort of other business models I guess and more different structures in terms of how the vendors operate your space and how leeway you give the vendors in their – I know Michael Kors has been talking about how they've been sort of in the retail department space having some successes with being more involved in the operations there.
Well as part of our vendor collaborations we're always trying to work more closely with vendors to help obviously make our stores more successful.
And obviously Michael Kors would be an example of that.
But we're still operating with the owned model.
So actually if you think about the first floor of Herald Square we do have the luxury shops sort of around the floor that are leased but most of the first floor is not a licensed business model it's still owned.
Okay.
And again from our perspective with licensed businesses what we do is identify what we call white space and where there is a business that we think we can find our need to add to this store or we believe someone outside could do better.
So if you think about Sunglass Hut when we decided to license that business part of it was because they had access to brands that Macy's could get without the licensed model and we think they've done a fabulous job; similarly with Finish Line.
So again we start with what does the customer want and where is there an opportunity and if we don't think we're the best at delivering that to the customer we're more than willing to partner with somebody as we've done in athletic shoes sunglasses et cetera.
Okay.
And did you see those opportunities up ahead or so far nothing? Well we're always looking for at new ideas so I certainly don't want to say nothing.
We have the whole team of people that is focused on where are the white spaces and what businesses could we add to our stores to either satisfy customer demand make them more interesting bring in the new customer so that's an important focus of what we're working on.
Great.
Thank you.
Next is Valerie Brown with Alliance Bernstein.
Hi Karen.
It's Valerie.
Hi Valerie.
Hi.
Just a question on the working capital efficiency.
You've talked a bit about your inventory levels and obviously they're elevated now relative to your increase in sales.
Do you have any specific initiatives that we should look out for that would really drive those inventory turns particularly given the Omnichannel strategy there just seems to be some room for improvement there that would also help drive your cash flow? I believe that there is Valerie.
I don’t think it's going to be 2014.
With that said earlier we’re testing having one inventory across channels which I think will be an important part of bringing the inventory levels down over time but we’re just beginning to test so it will not happen in ’14.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we will now go to David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
Thank you Karen.
Just a quick follow-up on the licensed model.
I'm curious and -- footwear obviously is a big important business and you had to make some tough decisions in terms of space allocations to put their shops in.
Have you looked at the performance of the -- of your footwear business in locations that have put the shops in versus not and how you evaluate sort of the trade-offs in terms of sales productivity and whether you look at profit dollars per square foot and how do you think this investment is paid off? We are very happy with the investment and I will also say it’s brought new customers into the store which is also helpful.
So we feel very good about that decision.
And we’re also starting to see some new shops we really haven't seen in addition to Finish Line some vendor shops show up in footwear I’m just wondering if that’s helping drive productivity as well and maybe that could be one of the leading categories for you guys that could replace one or two of the other center core categories that are still good but maybe not quite as productive? Well I hope shoes does well and so do those other categories.
Right.
Okay and then just finally just a quick clarification I believe I just wanted to double check you said similar to -- you said Q2 comps would be greater than Q1 and I think you said Q4 greater than Q3 that -- is that what you’re …? That is what I’ve said.
And first half roughly equal to second half? I didn't say that.
I didn't answer that one.
Is the first half comparable to the second? We're not commenting.
Okay.
Thank you Karen.
Good luck.
Yep.
Thanks.
We will now go to Rob Wilson with Tiburon Research.
Inc.</strong> Yes thanks for taking my call Karen.
Can we go back to the gross profit margin in Q4 and drill to that a little bit deeper? Was there any impact from the licensed business on gross profit margin in Q4? There was and it was also impact of the increase in delivery fees so both of those factors are offsetting.
Inc.</strong> Was the core merchandise margin higher or lower? Oh it’s about flat.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then did you have any asset gain sales last year? In the fourth quarter that's a good question.
I don’t know the answer but if so it was small.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
We will check that and get back to you.
Inc.</strong> And one final question the pension expense $150 million was that flow through evenly throughout the year or is it lumpy? I don't know the answer to that.
We can check that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I will follow-up.
Yes.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking my questions.
You bet.
We will now go to Richard Church with DISCERN Investment Analytics.
Good morning Karen.
Hi Rich.
How are you? Fine.
I just wanted to -- I’m good.
With respect to Omnichannel I was wondering if you could comment a little bit about the sort of the last mile challenges that I think you and everybody faces with getting that product into the consumer’s hands.
How are you thinking about that? How that's reflected in your guidance of course and then were there any unusual expense pressures associated with that in December? One of the things that has us excited about the buy online pickup in store test and that's going to help us really lay this foundation for same-day delivery because we have the capability now of knowing exactly if that inventory that a customer is ordering is in a specific store.
And if that inventory is in a market obviously it’s easier to get to the customer on the same day.
So that is laying the foundation.
We'll probably test same-day delivery in a few other places this year.
And I don't know where that will lead.
Are you working with any smaller transportation or shipping companies that are even going to step further and trying to deliver in certain categories within an hour? Yes we had -- I don’t know if that was in an hour but we're working with a few in different markets trying to test different ways of doing this.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) And we will now go to Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Oh hi Karen.
Just sorry just one quick follow-up.
You mentioned at this time a year-ago that the promotional shift between 1Q and 2Q was material and that should lead to 200 to 300 basis points type of gap between the performance of those two quarters last year.
Should we think about the gap between 1Q and 2Q this year to be similar? We're not commenting on this specific difference.
Okay.
I just wanted to ask.
Yes thanks Paul.
And we will now go to Laura Starr with Nuveen Asset Management.
Good morning Karen.
Hi Laura.
Yes several people have asked this question on the online versus in-store.
I noticed when I go online to Macy’s and I look at the SKUs available there is so much more than what’s in store which is obviously the -- what you want to do but how are you conveying that to customers how do they know that there is so much more there to pick from? Is that something that you feel that that you’re at the right place at or is there more to do there? And then my second question is on your credit card.
I got a mailing from you it's a new card with a reward program where I can get points back or money back or something buying groceries and all these other things.
Is that something new that you’re starting? Well let me answer that question first and then I'll go back.
We have reissued the Macy's Star Rewards program and I would say we have I guess the right word is tweaked the program that we had before and frankly communicating with customers better about what benefits she is already getting.
We do think it's an enhanced program but I wouldn't call it a major launch of a new loyalty program there.
Okay.
The cards are red which I think is pretty cool with the Macy's red.
But it is an improvement over what we had before but I would not call it a major launch of a significantly different program.
Okay.
And the number …? On the online it’s interesting in some categories what you're saying is right another categories that’s actually not the case.
It just feels that way when you’re shopping.
But we're trying to do is help customers whether it would be frankly in-store or online find what they want easier and more quickly.
And that's always a challenge.
So I would say we continue to try to showcase our inventory in a way that the customer finds what she wants but isn't so overwhelmed that it's hard to do so.
Okay.
Thank you.
And Karen there are no other questions.
So I'll turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you all for your interest your support.
If you have follow-up questions you can call me Matt Sarah and we'll do our best to try to answer them.
And again thank you very much.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference for today.
I would like to thank everyone for your participation and have a great day.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good morning.
And welcome to Macy’s Incorporated First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Macy’s conference call scheduled to discuss our first quarter performance.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company’s most recently filed Form 10-K.
While sales in the first quarter were below what we had expected we were pleased both with our earnings in the quarter and also with the momentum change towards the end of April when the weather finally warmed up in the northern part of the county.
In fact our year-to-date sales are already back well into positive territory.
While we aren’t sure that all of the weakness in the quarter was weather-related we continue to believe that the underlying customer demand is strong enough to enable us to achieve our annual guidance for comp sales of 2.5% to 3% and our earnings per share guidance of $4.40 to $4.50.
We are also pleased to announce that given the confidence in the company’s prospects our Board approved a 25% increase in our dividend to a $1.25 per share on an annual basis as well as $1.5 billion increase in authorization to buyback our stock.
We now have total authorization remaining of approximately $2.5 billion.
Sales in the first quarter were $6.3 billion down 1.7% from last year.
Comp sales were down 1.6% and on an owned plus license basis comp sales were down 0.8% versus last year.
Looking at owned plus license comp is the right way to be measuring customer spending with the company.
We had expected sales growth in the first quarter to be well below that in the second quarter due to the shift in the timing in our Friends &amp; Family event with the last two days happening in May this year.
We also knew that we were up against a strong first quarter last year a plus 4.4% on an owned plus license basis making this year’s comparison tough.
Having said that we were expecting sales to be stronger than they were at both Bloomingdale’s and Macy’s and as I just stated the weather clearly played a major role in the weakness.
As you would expect geographically the south did far better in the quarter in terms of sales performance than the north a strongest families of business in the quarter were handbags impulse apparel for a Millennial customers active kids and in Men apparel.
We also continue to see positive momentum in juniors or our younger Millennial customer which is very encouraging.
The license businesses performed very well in the quarter.
Some weather driven businesses such as shoes and apparel were weak overall in the quarter but perform much better in the south than in the north giving us confidence for the second quarter now that the weather is finally warmed up.
The area of our business that was toughest in the quarter was home which experienced weakness across the Board including big ticket.
We believe this is in part due to year rounding very strong performances over the past couple of years and may also relate to fewer housing starts and lower existing home sales and some of the weakness such as in outdoor furniture was in fact weather driven and interestingly like apparel the trend has improved in early May.
Average unit retail in the quarter was flat with average units per transaction up approximately 1% leaving transactions down about 1.5%.
Our gross margin rate in the quarter was up 10 basis points over last at 38.9%.
Merchandize margin was up by approximately the same amount.
At the end of the quarter inventory was up 4.7% over last year or 4.2% on a comp basis.
Although stock levels are a bit higher than we would have like relating to the weak first quarter sales the builds include many strategic investments in customer favorites and summer essentials it should pay dividends in the second quarter.
SG&amp;A was $2 billion 2% below last year and 20 basis points lower as a percent of sales.
We are very pleased that we were able to accomplish this even with the ongoing investment we are making in our omnichannel strategy.
Some of the reasons behind this variance include.
One retirement expense was favorable to last year by $39 million.
Two benefits from the cost reduction initiative implemented at year end.
Three credit was $5 million better than last year while usage of the card slipped 60 basis points to 44.7% which in part actually was due to the Friends &amp; Family shift the profitability of the portfolio continues to be very strong.
Four the flexing of expense in sales variable areas and five from timing shift particularly in marketing which will impacts subsequent quarters.
Operating income in the quarter was $443 million or 7.1% of sales up from $435 million or 6.8% of sales last year.
It is worth noting that we were able to increase the operating income rate as a percent of sales by 30 basis points in a declining sales environment.
Interest expense in the quarter was $100 million $3 million above last year.
This is mostly because of the incremental debt issued last year the $400 million that we issued relative to the $109 million that matured.
Tax expense in the quarter was $119 million.
The tax rate in the quarter was 34.7%.
We still expect the effect of tax rate for the year to be 36.4%.
The rate in any quarter as you know will be impacted by the timing of settlements and other discrete items.
Net income was $224 million up $7 million versus last year.
Diluted share count in the quarter was 372.6 shares down 5.6% from last year and earnings per share on a diluted basis was $0.60 up 9% over last year.
Cash flow provided by operating activities in the quarter was $212 million lower than last year due primarily to the different timing of receipts in the quarter which impacted merchandize payables the change in retirement expense the payout at cost associated with the year end restructuring and timing.
Cash used by investing activity was $96 million slightly better than last year’s $107 million and during the quarter we utilize $432 million to repurchase approximately 7.4 million shares.
As we look forward we continue to believe that we can achieve our annual guidance of 2.5% to 3% comp sales growth and $4.40 to $4.50 in earnings per share.
The second quarter will hopefully benefit from pent-up demand from earlier in the year as well as our improved strategies for driving business.
Remember that we had a disappointing second quarter last year and we concluded at that time that our marketing support was insufficient.
We then reacted with renewed and strength in promotional strategies in the third quarter.
The customer responded very well to these changes and we hope we will experience the similar reaction as these same strategies are executed in the second quarter this year.
As you know one of our philosophies at Macy’s is to focus on what we know and what we can control.
We cannot control the weather or the macroeconomic environment or where a major holiday falls in retail calendar.
There has been a lot of talk about these subjects in recent months.
But we can make sure that we have the widest assortments a customer-centric approach to omnichannel the best talent training and coaching that energizes our associates and very compelling marketing.
We spent a lot of time at Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s thinking about execution solid blocking and tackling to serve the customer everyday managing the business with discipline and sensitivity to the perspectives of our associates of vendors and our communities.
This is how we are winning and we’ll continue to win.
As I say quarter after quarter our M.O.M.
strategies My Macy’s Omnichannel and MAGIC Selling are a roadmap going forward.
We do not tire of it.
In fact we are exploring and finding new ways to make M.O.M.
better every day.
At a regional management meeting last week one of our executives noted that M O and M are the first three letters of the word momentum.
And he is absolutely right.
As we look forward into the remainder of 2014 we see a lot about which to be optimistic.
We can see the momentum it work in driving results.
And we will remain focused on what we can control.
I’ll now take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question today comes from Charles Grom with Sterne Agee.
Hey Karen.
It’s Chuck.
How are you? Hi Chuck.
Good.
In February you outlined at least 10 11 assumptions to kind of hold our hands throughout the year in 2014.
Just wondering if you still believe in those 11 assumptions if there’s any changes there to what you think? I confess I don’t have the 11 in front of me.
But I don’t think there is any change.
Tax rate hasn’t changed.
Margin expectation hasn’t changed.
Sales hasn’t changed depreciation so I don’t think there is any changes but I’ll go back later and look at the 11 to be sure.
Okay.
And then just regarding the first quarter Friends &amp; Family shift just wondering if you wanted to quantify that in any thing on gross margins in the second quarter that we should think about given the inventory levels being a little bit heavier at the end of the first quarter? Yeah.
In terms of Friends &amp; Family shift we haven’t quantified it but it is material which is why we had talked about it on the call in February because we want the people to make sure we knew from the beginning that our first quarter was going to be tougher than the second quarter.
And in terms of margins our guidance for the year has been flattish to down slightly.
So I would still hold that guidance as I think about the full year.
Obviously we outperformed that annual guidance in the first quarter.
But I would not change the guidance for the remainder of the year.
It’s obviously hard to forecast quarter-by-quarter.
Okay.
Fair enough.
My last question is on the $100 million in cost saves.
How should we think about that flowing through the P&amp;L throughout the year pretty evenly by quarter or is it expected to be front-end loaded? No it should be pretty evenly.
Most of the changes that happened by the end of the year and therefore fairly evenly through the year.
Okay.
Makes sense.
Thanks again.
And next we’ll move to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning and welcome back.
Just wanted to follow up on the comments you made about the stronger momentum in your younger millennial or juniors categories.
Is that an area that you could envision turning positive during this year and what other initiatives you have planned for that important older millennial as the year progresses? The whole millennial strategy is working really well.
As you know a lot of the new brands in the impulse of the older millennial again began traction last year.
And it’s taken us a little longer on the junior business.
But that’s now doing very well and we feel much better about the total.
And you combine that with the active strategy which is on fire both for men and women.
And we are very excited about the prospects.
And when you think about that millennial customer we tend to focus on the apparel sides of it.
But there is a lot going on in shoes handbags cosmetics and also home.
One of the strengths in our furniture business has been smaller scale furniture which is really appealing to the millennial customer.
And we’ve now got strength in kid’s furniture.
So there is just a lot going on for that millennial customer throughout the entire store not just the apparel areas.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Matthew Boss with J.P.
Morgan.
Hey Karen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So last year’s second quarter when we all kind of started to talk about this durable spending shift and weaker trends in apparel.
Can you just -- can you back up and kind of talk about your confidence in the consumer today and have you seen anything in terms of leading indicators from a category perspective.
It really just gives you the comfort as oppose as just kind of what you’re seeing out there.
It really gives you comfort in the back half of the year? Well I think it starts with when we gave our guidance at the beginning of the year.
We were not expecting the consumer to be all that strong.
So that really hasn’t changed with anything we’ve seen in the first quarter.
Obviously could make it a little more challenging but we still think that the consumer is okay but not great.
And as we look at the second quarter last year we do believe that a lot of the weakness was self inflicted and those are the things we’ve tried to correct this year.
Great.
And then as we look at the competitive backdrop clearly people talk about online a lot more.
Off price is a stronger force.
What do you think separates the winners and losers here as we think out the next three to five years? What do you think Macy’s is doing to really kind of separate from the pack here? Well I think we are doing a couple of things.
One is the omnichannel approach.
It’s obviously really critical.
I don’t know how a retailer could compete going forward without a really strong online presence and investing heavily to keep up with all that’s happening technologically in that world.
However I also think we wouldn’t be strong without our terrific stores.
And so we’re continuing to invest to make sure our assortments are right through My Macy’s.
Our sales associates are more engaged in MAGIC Selling.
So I believe it’s having great source but also having a fabulous internet presence a digital presence whether it’d be a mobile devices smartphone or traditional laptop desktop application.
Great.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
And Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank has our next question.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning Paul.
You mentioned that retirement expense savings would be helpful to you guys this year.
But is that front-end loaded or will that continue to be a benefit throughout the balance of the year? Well no we have said it would be about $150 million for the year.
So I wouldn’t change the annual forecast.
And some of that is offsetting increases in healthcare which we anticipate happening more towards the end of the year.
So we got more net benefit in the first quarter.
Thank you.
And then also last quarter you mentioned that Bloomingdale’s was better performer than Macy’s.
I know both were a little bit below expectations this quarter.
But can you just give a little bit more color on what you’re seeing out of Bloomingdale’s? Yeah.
No Bloomingdale’s had a tough first quarter as did Macy’s and again did better in their Southern stores and the Northern stores.
So that would be the case again.
And then lastly just the home comment that you made kind of stuck out with that being challenging.
I mean is there anything different that you’re seeing from a competitive landscape or in terms of how others are discounting that worries you or do you think it’s solely kind of weather and macro? Honestly it stood out for us too because as you know home has been so strong for so long.
So I’m hoping it’s just an outlier and by the second quarter that would no longer be the case.
Early May is making us feel a lot better.
But there’s really nothing we’re seeing on the competitive front that would lead us to be concerned about home longer term.
Thank you.
Next we’ll move to Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Karen can you maybe quantify for us the difference in comp performance between the South and the North in the first quarter? And how much is that gap closed or has it closed entirely in these first couple of weeks of May? We don’t split it out but the gap -- the South has been growing faster than the North separate from the weather.
So that’s -- the gap has closed quite a bit but there’s still going to be a gap as there was all last year.
But the gap has closed significantly since late April.
Okay.
And then on the gross margin front I assume that the first quarter benefited from the shift in Friends &amp; Family.
But please correct me if that’s wrong if you looked at the first quarter margins excluding that shift what would things have looked like? No I don’t really think that’s a big factor in terms of the margin.
Okay.
I think that the 10 basis point improvement was real.
Okay helpful.
And just last inventories what do you expect -- how do you expect to end at the end of the second quarter and is there any change in plan for the second half of the year? No change in plan and do expect the inventories to be less of an increase relative to last year by the time we end the spring season.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks and good luck.
Thank you.
And Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities has our next question.
Good morning.
Good morning Bernie.
Your management changes were internal.
So I imagine there won’t be anything great to say about it.
But I’m wondering if there are things that you’d like to highlight as a result of the change? Well I think Jeff’s elevation to President is a good thing for the company and will as you probably saw he’s picking up responsibility for the private brand organization.
And I think that will help with the congruency of our merchandise strategies and allow us to make our private brands that are already very strong even stronger.
So I think that’s going to be very positive.
And as regards to marketing you said that you need to have it very compelling.
We’ve seen what happened in the third quarter.
But could you remind us of what very compelling means and particularly the use of coupons? Yeah I don’t think you’ll see a major change in coupons.
But in the second quarter last year we did a more regular price event particularly around the American Icon.
And so we again are making it a little bit more promotional this year and tweaking some of the other promotional strategies in the quarter.
All right.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Bernie.
Bob Drbul with Nomura will go next.
Hi Karen.
Hi Bob.
The first question is on -- you talked about the economics versus weather just when you think about you think there is more play versus just weather what really are you focused on or like what are you concerned about that you guys were seeing within the customer base? Honestly we are still focused right now on executing and as I said on the things that we can’t control.
Yeah.
So that’s -- we are keeping our heads down and executing our strategies as we had anticipated and trying to get as much as we can.
Okay.
And any inventory increase are there any areas on the inventory side that you guys are uncomfortable with levels right now? Well there is no major areas but as you would expect at any point in the year there is always glut somewhere within the inventory but nothing that we are concerned about it at this point.
Okay.
And then my last question is just given how the quarter played out when you look at the e-comm business like in the first quarter omnichannel e-commerce how did the profitability change during the quarter like this or is there a big delta between the way it was a year ago versus the first quarter? I’m not sure I understand what about the first quarter that would have led the profitability to change.
Just with like the slowdown in sales like did you see a big difference on the e-commerce trends first quarter ‘14 versus first quarter ‘13 and did that impact at all the profitability? Weather impacts our online sales as well as store sales but it doesn’t impact the profitability.
If anything we are trying to get more profitable with every kind of transaction we do so that’s happening to some degree but I don’t know how that relates to the first quarter in specific.
Okay.
Thanks very much Karen.
And our next question comes from Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Sure.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
I guess the first is just as we think about the consumer can you just maybe provide a little bit more color on any trends you are seeing among household to different income levels? No we don’t -- I mean I can’t really comment on that.
We don’t have great data on income levels.
But as I said both Bloomingdale’s and Macy’s had tough quarters if that helps you to get some insights into that and our weakness was across price points and our opening price points were better.
So again that leads back to the weather discussion that was opposed to the consumer.
So I think until we see the second quarter with the warm-up in weather it’s going to be hard to really judge the answer to your question.
That makes sense.
Thanks.
And then one other follow-up or just related to Bob’s question on e-commerce can you provide a little more color on how e-commerce momentum has been and maybe how the Millennial offering is fairing online versus in-store? Interestingly the Millennial was doing well in both places.
There is sort of assumption that many people have that it’s all online is actually not the case.
Millennials love shopping in stores as well as online and browsing in one channel and shopping in another so both have been doing well.
And in terms of overall trends it’s really hard to measure now because we have so many people buying off smartphones on the selling floor.
So it’s again we don’t talk as much about digital sales versus store not quite sure where that line is drawn? Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks so much.
And next we will move to Michael Binetti with UBS.
Hey.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit about -- obviously the brick-and-mortar fleet has been -- for retail has been in news a lot lately and it’s been a big topic with investors.
Obviously store closures from some competitors are the topic of the day.
You guys have had a very calculated approach to how you look at fleet and any closings you might do.
How do you think about some of the news we’ve heard lately at some of the big boxes and malls you are in are going to stepping up store closures? I think we do the exact same thing.
We’ve always done which is we are constantly analyzing our store base and analyzing which if any should be closed and I would expect that to continue.
There is no question that there is some stores and perhaps some malls that won’t be in existence in five years.
But there is a lot of malls that are going to be invested in and be even stronger than they are today.
So yes we will continue to close stores as we’ve done and yes we will continue to grow and invest in good stores good malls.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about some of these specific omnichannel initiatives you talked about over the last few quarters with us.
The first obviously would be store-to-door and then you also talked about buy online and pick up in-store.
Can you talk about -- how do you view the impact on profitability of those kinds of initiatives to stay versus where it could be going and maybe some metrics you could give us to get excited about pick up in-store? Yeah.
Let me start with that.
The buy online pick up in-store that we just tested in Washington is going to be rolled out by the end of the summer across the country.
And we are really very excited about this and finding the customers or using it in all different kinds of ways.
In some cases it’s somebody working that wants to order something at the office and pick it up on their way home and doesn’t want a package sitting on a doorstep.
In other cases it’s wanting to browse online and be sure that what you want is in the store when you get there.
Some cases its convenience not having time to shop the whole store so they shop online and pick it up.
And in other cases it’s same day a way of getting something the same day which again people like as opposed to having it shipped.
I do think we’ll be doing same-day delivery at some point but for now this is the way most customers will get things same day and it’s very exciting.
We’re finding a lot of people like it.
It hasn’t even been marketed yet.
So we think the potential is huge and the good news is is that when the customer comes to the store they’re usually buying other things while they’re there and so obviously that’s a good thing as well.
The store-to-door or Search &amp; Send as we call it is also been very helpful allowing us to get wanted goods to customers when either were out of a particular size or color at a store or in some cases we don’t carry that brand or that item in a store getting it to the customer easily also.
And that just continues to grow and be a terrific source of customer satisfaction as we go forward.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Sure.
Good morning.
Just to follow-up on the last question I know the store fleet has been pretty flat for a while and obviously on the cash flow lines the software and the investment in PP&amp;E has been pretty flat too.
Do you see that staying flat on a dollar basis over the long run or have we come through some peak period with the software spending and maybe it’s going to go down a little? How do you see that developing over the next five years or so? And in fact our CapEx this year is a little bit higher than it has been is about $1.1 billion.
So I don’t see the investment in software going down because there just continues to be new ideas that you want to invest in and grow with.
Unfortunately we have the size and scale to make that profitable.
But we will continue to invest in technology quite heavily as we go forward.
But we’re also investing to maintain the store base so it’s doing both.
So will that grow as the sales go up or because you’ve got a pretty fixed store base? Will it be more flat at growing just on a dollar basis? I don’t know exactly how to predict it.
My guess is that the $1 billion-ish is probably the right number for the next couple of years.
Beyond that it’s hard to know right now.
I don’t anticipate a major increase.
Great.
That’s very helpful.
And then real quick on the licensed business it sounds like you’re pleased with the licensed businesses you’ve had.
Do you see that continuing to grow as other vendors approach you with the same type of situation? Well we start with the objective of pleasing our customers and finding great assortments in categories that they want to find at a Macy’s.
So when you think about Sunglass Hut or Finish Line both of those enabled us to bring product to our customers that we weren’t able to do as Macy’s alone.
So yes there may be other opportunities.
We’ve been very successful.
We’re starting to rollout Locker Room by Lids which will be for team apparel and accessories and we’re very excited about that too.
And so yes there may be other opportunities to do this.
Interesting.
Thanks a lot and best of luck.
Thank you very much.
And our next question comes from Oliver Chen with Citigroup.
Hi.
The merchandise margins were a nice upside this quarter.
What are your thoughts going forward on that? And as you think about holiday you are doing this prudent tweaking strategy in terms of ensuring you have the right promotional balance.
What may be new this year versus last year now as we move forward throughout the quarters? I can’t tell you that then the competitors would know it.
But in terms of the margin as I said a few minutes ago we are expecting for the year still flattish to down slightly.
So yes the first quarter was great.
But I don’t change the annual guidance for gross margin at this point.
Okay.
I’m encouraged by your statement on pent-up demand.
If you could highlight for us why you have conviction there and what you are thinking in terms of how that could play out? Well in part I say that because once the weather warmed up there was a significant change in the trend.
So again a couple of weeks doesn’t a quarter or a year make.
But it is encouraging to see that and particularly in the northern climate.
So that’s part of why we’re feeling confident.
Got it.
And my last question was just about traffic and traffic.
If you could speak to what you’re most excited about about your traffic driving strategies and I’m kind of curious about this as it applies to online as well as bricks and mortar or however maybe most prudent to talk about? Our number of transactions which is as close as we can come to traffic we are down in the first quarter as I said.
But again I think a lot of that was weather related plus the shift in Friends &amp; Family.
We will be able to judge better as we get through the second quarter but obviously our marketing approach is trying to drive traffic to our stores but also to our mobile devices to laptops desktops etcetera and smartphones.
So our traffic driving strategies today are broader than they used to be when we were completely focused on stores.
Karen a final question is just about your brand portfolio which is outstanding.
Are you very comfortable with the current mix of national and exclusive brands? Or is there anything there in terms of how you are thinking about your strategy going forward? Well as you know we love our private brands and we love our national brands as well.
And so we will continue to build our business with those.
And wherever we see white space or available customer demand we will ask ourselves are we better off developing it ourselves or is there a partner we can develop that with? So if we look at for example the millennial businesses Ralph Lauren Denim &amp; Supply has been a big part of that as has Maison Jules which is a private brand or we are in the midst right now of building an enormous brand geared at the Latina customer Thalia and we are extraordinarily excited about that and this is one where we felt our team was better equipped to build it out.
So we do make those decisions.
But for Macy’s to be successful we need our very strong private brands our exclusive brands to do well and also the national brands.
The Thalia innovation has been impressive.
Thanks and congrats.
Yeah no wait till you see the product I got a glimpse of it a couple of weeks ago it looks terrific.
I think she is very excited about it and our team spent a lot of time down in Mexico making sure we get the size right the coloring right the fit right.
And I think it’s just going to be a huge success when it hits the stores next spring.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Karen thanks for question.
Question on gross margins so it’s kind of been beaten to death here a little bit but I’m trying to understand how you improved your gross margins in the first quarter.
Given the fact that I think you came out a little bit heavy coming out of the fourth quarter; sales were not up to expectations I’m assuming your online may have grown a little bit faster than in-store which is lower margin.
So how did you do it? And the follow-up would be are you being conservative in your outlook for the balance of the year on gross margin given that you were able to show improvement in an extremely tough quarter? Well I hope that I’m being conservative but I don’t think that I am.
And I think Jeff and the merchants did a very good job of anticipating some of the risk and managing it as they went through the quarter and did a terrific job.
One of the great strengths of Macy’s is our merchant organization and their ability to flex and forecast and anticipate risk and at the same time maximize what they see working.
And it all played out quite well in the first quarter in terms of the margin performance but again it’s one quarter.
And maybe I will in the end end up having being conservative I hope so but I don’t think so in terms of the prospect for the year.
How did your private label brands perform relative to national brands in the first quarter? They performed quite well.
We had unbelievable strength with some of the big ones like INC Alfani Karen Scott; American BRAG I mean I could keep going Bar III Material Girl.
We had a very strong quarter with a lot of the private brands.
And finally a question on your assortments online versus in-store.
I guess how congruent are they at the present time and kind of what is your goal as you move through the year? Congruency is a very tough subject.
What I would say is that most of what we carry online is covered in a Macy’s store; but remember we have lots of different assortments in different stores.
So I can’t tell you what’s congruent with every store but we do try very hard to make that happen.
And what areas would you say online are underpenetrated? And I guess again where are you kind of taking the online business from an assortment standpoint as you move through the year? Well historically home has been where online started first and so now we’ve been seeing outsized growth in the apparel areas.
But again that’s just because of where they started but our strategies online are actually quite comparable in terms of growth plans to what’s happening in the store.
A key item tends to be a key item in both channels and also brands.
So our strategies really have become omni as we look at the future.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
The next we will move to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning Kimberly.
I wanted to just clarify what I think I heard in your prepared remarks you talked about obviously Q1 sales were a little bit below your expectations.
I think the total sales number was down about 1.5% or so or just a little over 1% but you said year-to-date sales are well back into positive territory including May.
That suggests in the first two and a half weeks of May not only did you make up for the deficit in Q1 but that total revenue number had actually had a plus sign in front of it.
Yes that is okay with me.
Terrific great.
Thank you.
I don’t like calling a quarter based on a couple of weeks but given the inflection point in the weather I think it is relevant.
So post that inflection point in the weather obviously there were some categories in the first quarter that didn’t meet your expectations.
Many of them were probably impacted by the weather what we’ve got going on in the housing market.
Now that you’ve seen sort of four five six weeks of I guess we’ll call it more normal weather are there any categories that are still not performing to where you would expect them? Well the truth is most of the categories that had the weakness home a lot of the apparel shoes have strengthened a lot.
I think let’s wait-and-see the quarter though.
Again I really don’t want to make too much of a couple of weeks.
Very fair.
And then lastly just how should we think about SG&amp;A as we work our way through the year because here in Q1 SG&amp;A dollars on a year-over-year basis were actually down 2% which we clearly didn’t expect.
And we have SG&amp;A dollars growing in our model by a little bit over the next three quarters.
But did you think it’s possible that you could hold SG&amp;A dollars flatter were there some anomalies in Q1 that just won’t repeat? Well one of them was the sales was below last year.
So in part we brought expense dollars down and flexed the staffing in the stores in reaction to the sales.
So I would not expect SG&amp;A for the year to be down for sure or flat.
I do expect it to be up as we go through the remainder of the year.
Thanks so much Karen.
Next we will move to Richard Jaffe wit Stifel.
Thanks so much Karen and good morning.
Good morning.
A question on marketing and some of the new -- relatively new opportunities to market online the social marketing initiatives that we’ve seen.
And I am wondering what’s your take on these new marketing opportunities; how much you pushed into those areas and how much we should look for in the balance of the year? Well I’m not really the marketing expert but as you might imagine we are spending a lot more of our budget on digital and all kinds of ways.
Particularly as you talk about the millennial customer he or she is getting their information differently than perhaps I am.
So there is a lot of change happening.
But still much of what we spend is in the traditional media.
Is there a way -- it’s always tough to judge the impact of advertising perhaps the e-commerce channel is a little bit easier.
Are you seeing it working for you or encouraging to you to pursue more aggressively in the balance of the year? Well I don’t think -- I mean we’re pleased with how our marketing is working if that’s your question both digitally and the more traditional media.
Our team spends a lot of time analyzing media effectiveness and is putting our dollars where we are getting the biggest result and we are fine-tuning that constantly.
So we’ll just have to wait and watch online and see how that progresses? Yes correct.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
You bet.
Next we will move to David Glick with Buckingham Research.
Thank you.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning David.
The question on the second quarter obviously your guidance implies a meaningful acceleration in sales trends and you are off to a good start.
I am wondering as part of your plan for the second quarter whether you added some sales promotion events.
Obviously last year you had some takeaways from the quarter that you wanted to be harder hitting and that was preplanned.
But were there any things you had to react to earlier this year to add to your game plan for Q2? No we have not changed our plans at all.
We changed -- as we looked at the second quarter performance last year and moved into the third quarter we did make changes and at that point started planning spring of ‘14.
And so we have as I said earlier added some promotion into the second quarter but that was purposefully done and done six months ago.
Great.
And then in terms of the opportunities clearly Mother’s Day I guess you can check the box given the start to the month that you just described.
Are there time periods where you feel like your -- where you have the biggest opportunity… I think we have opportunity really throughout the quarter.
Thank you.
And one follow-up just curious the announcement by Federal Express to change to this dimensional pricing model versus pricing by weight.
I am wondering what if any impact that has on how you guys approach filling e-commerce orders from a cost standpoint or an execution standpoint? Yeah I don’t know the specific answer on the FedEx change but as you might imagine we have a team of people doing everything we can to lower delivery expense.
So understanding how those changes impact that I don’t know how but I guarantee you we have a team working on it.
Okay great.
Thank you very much and good luck.
Thanks David.
And our next question comes from Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
Hi Karen how are you? Good.
I guess my first question is sort of another question on this brand versus private -- national brands versus private brands? I think historically there was maybe a thought that private brands and the exclusivity that you get there were really something special that maybe some companies were chasing for a bit and maybe I went too far? But in terms of your positioning now is it fair to say that because of your dominance in the marketplace you have a better assortment of the branded goods and so even if it’s a broadly distributed national brand you’ll have a better assortment in that brand than maybe some of your competitors is that part of what’s working so well for you? I hope so because that’s the strength of our merchandising team.
I mean that’s what Jeff and the team and then Julie Greiner our Chief Merchandise Planning Officer plus Jeff Kantor’s team at dotcom that’s what they do.
They curate the market and find the best assortments within national brands as well as obviously helping on the exclusive brand.
And we do also try to get exclusive items from our national brands to make the assortment of those even better.
And again remember part of our secret sauce there is not only finding the right items but it’s assorting them appropriately size color et cetera store by store which is the whole My Macy’s strength.
So even if we theoretically had the same assortment from a brand as someone else I think we would do better on the sales line because of what we’re doing with My Macy’s.
Understood.
In terms of looking at some of these license like the Finish Line and sunglasses those sort of areas are you -- can you share any analysis that you’ve done to suggest that the customer maybe cross-shopping other areas of the store and perhaps that’s part of the lift that you’re seeing in the juniors area? Sure.
Absolutely.
And we obviously track that quite closely.
In Macy’s shop those areas just like they’re part of Macy’s sometimes they don’t even know that they’re shopping in a licensed department.
They come in to buy sunglasses.
They just happen to buy them and may not even recognize that it’s sunglass yeah… But they are also… Yeah… … selling over into… Absolutely.
Okay.
And then finally just how are you and the Board thinking about the dividend obviously nice increase there are you looking at it just kind of wanting to be competitive with other companies out there in terms of the yield or how do you think about dividends versus buyback? I think the Board has been relatively consistent in terms of looking at yield as payout ratios and trying to keep the yield competitive.
So I think you’ll continue to see absent something changing.
The Board making the same kind of decisions they’ve been making for years between the dividend and the buyback.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Stacie Rabinowitz with Consumer Edge Research has our next question.
Hi.
I actually had two and hopefully they are relatively quick.
Number one you had mentioned thinking about same-day delivery and I know your that eBAY now does one to two-hour delivery for you in some markets? So my first question was just if you could comment on how successful that’s been or what the impact has been in those markets that’s causing you to maybe think about doing same-day shipping more broadly? And then number two just I know it’s hard with the shift to compare? But anything on how Easter did this year versus last year in terms of the holiday specific products or sales events would be fantastic? Yeah.
No.
It’s really hard to compare Easter given the weather change but that was a big factor.
Obviously we were quite pleased with our kids business which is a big Easter business.
And also our dress business is pretty good given the weather.
So as you think about Easter I would say hard to judge because of weather.
But clearly did a lot of business in those categories which tend to go with the holiday.
In terms of same-day delivery I don’t think we have done anything yet in terms of the test that gives us any sense of how big it could be.
So we are beginning to think about should we test should we not where how et cetera and probably will.
Okay.
Thanks.
And next I move to Richard Church with Discern Investment Analytics.
Thank you.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning Rick.
Just a quick question for you that expands on earlier question about digital marketing.
Beacon technology has been gaining some traction and some momentum.
And I know you’re testing this technology in your stores.
I was wondering if you have any insights or learnings that you could share with respect to how the customer might be responding or accepting of beacons? Sorry I can’t comment on that.
Okay.
And then I think you alluded this to an earlier answer but any mix shift with respect to in-store or Omnichannel online sales when you’re in a quarter like the first quarter which was somewhat disrupted by weather or whatever maybe disrupting traffic.
Any mix shift that do you think is important to call out? No not really.
Okay.
Thank you.
You bet.
Rick Snyder with Maxim Group has our next question.
Good morning Karen.
Hi Rick.
I was wondering if you could go over those comp components again because my numbers don’t quite match.
And also if I’m not mistaken you’ve anniversaried the Finish Line licensed departments and are the LIDS also licensed? Did I understand that? Correct.
Okay.
So the gap between comp and owned plus licensed gap will narrow in the second quarter third and fourth because of your rounding on the Finish Line.
Okay.
And could you just go over the AUR UPT numbers again? Yeah I mean and again it’s all tracking back to the comp of down 0.8 on an owned plus licensed basis.
It’s down point.
Yeah.
Because that’s how we’re evaluating our business internally.
Okay.
So I think that’s probably where you were off.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll move to Steve Kernkraut with Berman Capital.
Yeah.
Hi Karen.
Hi Steve.
I have one question that’s more of a longer term rather than a short-term quarterly question.
But Terry has talked in the past about how he’s not interested in Canada and he’s very interested in China.
And I just wanted to know if you could kind of update us on what your thoughts are there whether anything has changed whether anything more aggressive is going to happen in China? And would Sears likely try to -- there’ll be assets that they have in Canada whether or not that’s of any interest to you guys? I don’t really think anything has changed Steve from that.
As you said Terry’s not been interested in Canada and has been more interested in China.
And we’re continuing to explore international opportunities for both Bloomingdale’s and Macy’s.
As you know Bloomingdale’s has a license deal in Dubai… Right.
…which has been a very successful venture for both the partner and for us.
And so we may broaden that kind of partnership as well.
So I would say international is still something that’s intriguing but nothing eminent in terms of significance.
It really is an intriguing thing and that’s something that we’ll see dollars put down and then trying to invest in China or something like that.
Well at some point you may.
I mean it’s obviously if we ever decided to do it there would be dollars involved.
Right.
So I would say it continues to be interesting.
Okay.
And with your e-commerce business so successful at this point are you getting many international buyers along that line has that been an avenue that’s been working with the international customers? Some but we really haven’t focused on it.
I would say that we’re so focused on getting the omnichannel and the domestic business doing well plus tourists that that’s really where the focus has been and we do believe that there’s more international growth to be done.
It just has not been a priority.
This is not your priority.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
You bet.
Okay.
And next we’ll hear from Margaret Moore with DuPont Capital.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning Margaret.
You called out Intimate as a positive trend and I was wondering if you could discuss whether that was a function of new product innovation or the positive impacts of better sales associate training because that has been an area where department stores in general have been losing market share historically and do you expect these trends to continue for the rest of the year? No.
I think it starts with an assortment that was better edited and our in-stock position on key sizes was improved.
And I think a version of My Macy’s was executed there.
Okay.
In combination with improvement in terms of training and MAGIC Selling in terms of the store execution but I think a lot of the strength started with merchandise strategies and we do expect that strength to continue through the year.
Thank you.
We’ll move to Brian Rounick with BLR Capital.
Hi Karen.
Thanks for taking the call.
I know that you have sort of addressed this but if you could sort of talk about -- just so we can get a better idea of the trends that are going on what maybe the March and April combined comps were? We are not disclosing anything that specific.
Okay.
Could you say if they were positive or negative? No.
We’re not disclosing.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Okay.
How about Easter Week versus Easter Week last year? How about let’s wait until the end of the second quarter and we can talk about it.
Fair enough.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
You bet.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Hoguet I’ll turn the call back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all for your interest your support and if you have further questions feel free to call me Matt or Sarah.
And we’ll do our best to get your questions answered and thanks.
Take care.
And once again that does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
Welcome to Macy’s Incorporated Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy’s conference call scheduled to discuss our second quarter performance.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company’s most recently filed Form 10-K.
The key metrics for the second quarter performance include a 4% comp sales increase on an owned plus license basis a 30-basis point increase in EBIT as a percent of sales and an 11% increase in earnings per share on a diluted basis.
Those together make for a good quarter and we are in line with what we expected.
While our stronger sales performance in the quarter was in part due to the shift in the timing of the friends and family event at the beginning of the quarter we were pleased that the tone of our business in the second quarter improved relative to the first quarter.
However we weren't able to make up the sales shortfall from the first quarter.
However given the improved trend in the second quarter and our fall holiday strategies we feel good about the back half of the year and did not change our sales expectations for the fall.
We did lower our guidance for the full-year to a comp increase of approximately 1.5% to 2% for the full-year which incorporates the spring's season actual results.
On an owned plus license basis the annual comp is expected to be 2% to 2.5%.
The good news is that in spite of the lower sales guidance we're comfortable maintaining our annual EPS guidance of $4.40 to $4.50.
Let's talk about the second quarter and then we'll move on to our key planning assumptions for the fall season.
Sales in the second quarter were $6 267 million or up 3.3% over last year.
Comp sales increased 3.4% in the quarter and on an owned plus license basis comp sales were up 4%.
As I said we are pleased with our results overall and we were particularly pleased with the continued strength in the center core categories especially handbags the good performance of our back-to-school businesses including junior Impulse Active and kids and the rebound in our Furniture and Mattress business after a tough first quarter.
The weaker categories in the second quarter included both women's and men's sportswear as well as non-athletic shoes.
Geographically sales continued to be strongest in the South particularly in Southern California and Texas.
There are also individual stores in the North that also performed well most notably Herald Square.
We continued to be very pleased with the customer reaction to the remodeled areas of our flagship store.
Average unit retail was up 1.5% in the second quarter and the number of transactions was up 2.7% with the units per transaction down 0.3% or essentially flat.
However given the shift in the friends and family event it's more representative to look at these metrics with the two quarters combined.
For those six months the average unit retail was up 0.7% the number of transactions was up 0.5% and units per transaction up 0.4%.
While we had hoped that the number of transactions what have increased more we were pleased with the balance performance.
Bloomingdales had a stronger second quarter as well as Macy's and the Internet-generated demand continues to grow rapidly and we believe that will continue particularly now that we have rolled out Buy Online Pickup in Store which some people refer to as click and collect to all the Macy's and Bloomingdales stores.
We haven't even marketed this capability yet and we are already finding that many customers like this option.
Once in the store these customers are often buying other items as well.
It's really premature to provide color on how it's being used by customers or how big it could become but hopefully as the fall season moves on we will understand better how it's being used and its potential.
We are excited though by what we have seen so far and expect it to be a help in the holiday selling season.
Omnichannel strategies are clearly enabling us to accelerate growth and we are just at the early stages of exploring all the opportunities.
The gross margin rate for the second quarter was 41.4% down 40 basis points from last year.
The merchandise margin rate was down approximately 30 basis points in the quarter and the impact of delivery expense lowered the margin rate further.
For the spring season as a whole the gross margin rate was flat which is in line with our annual guidance at the beginning of the year of a flat to down slightly gross margin rate.
We feel good with where we ended the quarter with inventory being 1% over last year or 2% higher than last year on a comp basis.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $2 024 million up 1.3% over last year and as a percentage sales expense was 70 basis points below last year.
Relative to last year we benefited from approximately $40 million lower retirement related expense and savings from the restructure that we completed a year end.
These both helped to offset our ongoing investment in Omnichannel strategies and technology.
Credit income was also favorable in the quarter to last year by $6 million reflecting continued strength in our portfolio.
Operating income was $571 million in the quarter or 7% above last year.
As a rate to sales operating income was 9.1% up 30 basis points over a year ago.
Interest expense in the quarter was $100 million and tax expense $179 million.
The effective tax rate in the quarter was 37.9% which is 200 basis points over the rate last year due to the timing of some settlements.
This higher rate cost us approximately $0.250 cents per share relative to last year in the quarter.
We still expect though that the annual effective tax rate will be 36.4% but as you know this tax rate is very hard to predict by quarter.
Net income in the second quarter was $292 million and diluted share count was $365.4 million shares therefore earnings per share on a diluted basis was $0.80 which is up 11% over last year.
Cash provided by operating activities net of investing activities in the first half of the year was $358 million which is $10 million higher than last year.
We issued $500 million of debt earlier this year and we repaid $454 million of debt in the second quarter.
We also bought back 8.9 million shares of common stock for approximately $517 million in the quarter and we have repurchased 16.3 million shares for approximately $949 million year-to-date.
The earnings and cash flow were strong in the first half of the year in spite of the lower than expected sales.
We are confident in our strategies for the fall season.
As a result we did not reduce our regional sales expectations.
We are expecting comp sales of 2% to 3% for the fall and the license businesses should add 20 basis points to 30 basis points to their comp growth in the back half of the year.
Earnings per share on a diluted basis for the fall season the combination of Q3 and Q4 is expected to be $3.04 to $3.14 which would then result in annual guidance of 440 to 450 for the full-year.
Here are a few additional planning assumptions to help you with your models.
One we expect the third quarter comp sales to be lower than the comp sales in the fourth quarter given the last year's strengthened third quarter and a tougher fourth quarter.
Two our total sales growth in the back half of the year is expected to be approximately 30 basis points lower than the comp growth due to lower outside revenue from our private brand merchandise.
Three we expect gross margin rate to be flat-to-down slightly for the season as well as for the year.
Four we are still expecting depreciation and amortization of $1 040 million for the full-year.
Five the effective tax rate is still projected at 36.4%.
Six interest expense is also still projected at approximately $390 million.
Seven as in prior years we are not including in our guidance any store closing related costs or asset impairment charges that could incur at year end.
As Terry said in today's news release our outlook for the fall season reflects our confident optimism tempered with the reality that many customers still are feeling the impact of an economic environment that at best is improving very gradually Macy's and Bloomingdales are doing what it takes to win with the customer and that includes delivering newness in our merchandise assortment creating excitement with terrific marketing deploying new dimensions in technology and helping our customers stretch their dollars with great value.
These elements and many others are wrapped up in our MOM strategies My Macy's Omnichannel and Magic Selling.
We have learned that our success is greatest when we do things big and when we emphasize great brands to draw customers to Macy's and Bloomingdales.
Example include making Macy's America's destination for handbags.
The development of our powerful active strategy and all we are doing our business with Millennial customers.
We continue to grow our business with major most wanted brands through increased collaboration and innovation.
I am talking about brands like Ralph Lauren Tommy Hilfiger Michael Kors Calvin Klein Estée Lauder and (Inaudible).
It is brands like these that truly differentiate our assortments.
Behind the scenes we are also managing expense prudently so we can continue to invest to advance the progress in our core strategies.
We are taking a more holistic view of inventory so we can effectively and efficiently fulfill customer demand from all directions.
We are applying our $1 billion-plus annual CapEx budget to projects that will continue to build our infrastructure for growth.
We have made a lot of progress.
Take a look back at our financial report for the first half of 2007 the period before the recession hit.
First half 2014 sales are well above the level of 2007 our operating income has nearly doubled even when you factor out the last of the May company integration costs.
We have actually lowered her SG&amp;A even on the dollar basis.
We have maintained our gross margin level even though factors like free shipping hadn't yet entered the equation back in 2007 and our earnings per share of more than quadrupled.
This demonstrates the resilience of our business and it underscores the ability of the Macy's Inc.
team to manage change effectively so that we gross sales profitably.
Best of all our team continues to approach each fall season with a level of anticipation and genuine excitement that is greater than the year before.
Our level of adrenaline has not let up.
The holiday season is when we shine.
I hope you will be watching us closely this fall in store online on mobile and across these channels.
We believe you will continue to be impressed by what we are able to accomplish.
I will stop now and take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from Paul Swinand of Morningstar.
Good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
Just real quickly so I understand on the SG&amp;A was just the $1 increase is that all the marketing shift and I am just trying to think longer term.
You just said that you have got lower SG&amp;A on a dollar basis than when you would - can that kind of continue to leverage or hold steady for the long-term without increasing the store base? I am not sure I understand the questions but we feel very good about the fact that in the quarter we were able to reduce our SG&amp;A as a percent of sales by 70 basis points even while investing in growth.
We will continue to do what we can to control expense but we are investing in the future at the same time.
Is that investment more in the marketing and the online… Well it's really more technology and building the Omnichannel strategies delivery expense things like that Buy Online Pickup in Store all of the new initiatives that we are doing to help the customer find new ways of shopping and engaging with Macy's.
Okay.
Thank you.
Then quickly on the handbags is that still a very promotional area? Obviously a lot of a lot of other stores do well in that area.
Why do you think you will be better with this new initiative? No no.
We have been doing spectacularly in handbags for a long time and I do think we are the market leader.
I think it's a combination of terrific brands the online in-store presence the display we have -in-store the sales associates in store we are just very strong in that area but that's not new.
That's been the case.
Great.
Thanks again and best of luck.
Thank you very much.
The next question is from Charles Grom of Sterne Agee.
Hey thanks.
Good morning Karen.
Hi Charles.
Just again on the SG&amp;A a lot of the components the retirement expense the savings from other store closings and the credit was basically the same as the first quarter yet to Paul's question you were up $25 million you were down $41 million.
In this quarter you were down $41 million in the first quarter.
Can you just help us a little bit on the technology spend how much was it in the second quarter relative to the first quarter? The difference Chuck is the fact that the sales grew more so the sales variable expense are going to be higher in the quarter when you have in terms of dollars when have 4% sales growth.
Okay so there is no major change 2Q versus 1Q… Correct.
Okay.
Thanks for clarifying.
Then just merchandise margins down like you said about 30 basis points in the quarter.
They were up 15 I think in the first quarter yet you had a better comp.
Could you just flush out the delta.
It's great to see inventory levels… The trick is we were flat for the season which is consistent with what we had told people so I think stick with our guidance and again a flat gross margin rate for the quarter is what we had expected.
Okay.
Then any early thoughts on back-to-school so far? Well the end of the second quarter back-to-school was extremely strong at the start will see as it goes through the season but we feel very good about it.
Our Junior's business we really think now has turned around and has been terrific.
Kids did well active is on fire finished line doing very we are.
Hopefully that will continue through the third quarter.
All right great.
Thanks a lot.
The next question is from Paul Lejuez of Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Hey Karen.
Morning Paul.
Morning.
Just wondering if there were any particular categories that you actually saw more gross margin pressure this quarter versus those that might have been stronger.
Also wondering just about your performance from a top-line and gross margin perspective when you were running friends and family versus the periods that weren't.
Thanks.
You know something I don't look at it that way.
Again we look at the promotional strategy in total and what does that do for the quarter I am not sure I can help you with that question.
Got you and how should we think about gross margin third quarter versus fourth quarter.
We heard your guidance for the second half as a whole.
You gave us some color on what to expect on the sales line third quarter versus fourth quarter… Well it's hard to forecast by quarter so I don't anticipate any major swing but that doesn't mean there won't be any and I would just urge you to think about the season as a whole and the years as a whole.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good luck.
Thank you.
The next question is from Michael Binetti of UBS.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning Michael.
Just with everything we have seen and we have heard a number of people saying at a minimal level promotions in the quarter were definitely high still to get the consumer in the door.
Can you talk to us if you guys have changed your view at all on how promotion you need to approach the market in the second half of the year based on just update your thinking for the second quarter.
I can't remember a time when it wasn't promotional so I don't see anything different in the second quarter of the fall season.
This is a very promotional business.
Our customer very much wants value and very much responds to promotions so I don't see a change happening there but it's very promotional.
Maybe could you help us think about what might have driven the acceleration in AUR in the quarter versus what we saw on the first quarter? I think that's why I said focus on the two quarters together because I think that's a more representative time period.
Okay.
Then just lastly could you help us think about where we are as far as the run rate on the cost savings that you announced earlier in year.
How much of that is going through the P&amp;L right now? That's going to run through all year.
Is it up to the full amount of savings at this point there is nothing incremental to come in the back half from that? That's correct.
Okay.
But it's still (Inaudible).
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Bob Drbul of Nomura Securities.
Hi Karen.
Good morning.
Hi Bob.
Good morning.
The first question is when you think about the Omnichannel initiative are radiated sales from Buy Online Pickup in Store are they impacting certain categories more than other categories? I think they are but I think it's happening it's just too early to say Bob.
Give us a little more time with that.
We have only had it rolled out to off-stores for a couple of weeks now and I said we really haven't even marketed so I think we need to wait and see.
Okay.
Then as you look at - you didn't change the sales expectations for the back half of the year.
Are there some product launches or categories that you are excited about or new products or new brands that you are excited about that you are looking forward for Macy's to have overall? I think there are but I don't want our competitors that they are so I think should just leave it there.
If you look at the second quarter the run rate in the second quarter is consistent with what we are expecting for the fall so there is this misperception that we are expecting this huge increase in sales in the [fund] that's not the case.
Got it.
Okay.
Then last question just the Bloomingdales outlet business.
Can you just talk a little bit sort of about the learning there the updated thoughts around the opportunity and how that business is perform for you? Yes.
I mean I think we are feeling better about it.
The performance is good and we are beginning to develop real estate plans to expand it further.
Okay.
Thank you very much Karen.
The next question is from Jeff Stein of Northcoast Research.
Hey good morning Karen.
Just a couple of ones real quick.
First of all Bloomingdales versus Macy's which segment of business was stronger in the quarter? Bloomingdales has had a strong quarter just like Macy's.
Okay.
As far as kind of the pattern of sales during the quarter what we've been hearing now for about a year is that during special events fourth of July and Mother's Day and so forth that that's when the customer comes in.
Then there was kind of a low in between special events.
Are you seeing that in your business.
Did you see that in the second quarter? Well you always get more traffic when you are promoting but relative to our plan I would say no Jeff.
I mean but you are always going to have less traffic when you are not doing a major promotion but it's as we would have expected.
What I meant was do you have more challenges getting customers to come in and shop during kind of the low periods.
No more so than usual.
Okay.
Final question is just a clarification on the SG&amp;A.
You mentioned a $40 million of savings from retirement and was it retirement store closings so 40? No.
The $40 million is the retirement.
Okay.
How about store closing store restructuring? Well it's the amount that we had said we would save at the end of the year.
We didn't break it out by quarter.
It was $100 million for the year? For the year.
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Kimberly Greenberger of Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thanks so much Karen.
Just so I understand the SG&amp;A savings that would benefit the second half of the year.
The $40 million savings on the pension and $100 million on the store closing those were both annual figures.
Correct? The $40 million no that's in the quarter so we had said we would save approximately $150 million for the full-year on the retirement side.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you for that clarification and that you are expecting to flow fairly evenly quarter-by-quarter in the back half? Yes.
Okay.
Great.
We were wondering about the shift in merchandise margin.
Obviously Q1 was up Q2 was down and the net of which was basically flat in line with your expectations.
Was that shift simply the friends and family shift or did you feel like the business was a little bit more promotional outside of the shifting around for friends and family… No.
I don't think it's the impact of friends and family and all.
I mean think it's partially as you recall at the end of the first quarter we did not clear the inventory as rapidly because we were waiting for the warm weather day hit so some of those markdowns were shifted into the second quarter.
Again the spring season was consistent with what we had expected.
The timing just changed a little bit.
Great.
The inventory here coming out of Q2 was looking fairly lean and running below your second half sales target do you feel comfortable that you have got enough inventory to drive that 2% to 3% growth you're looking for in the back half of the year? Yes.
We do.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Karen.
Next question is from Oliver Chen of Citi.
Thanks Karen.
Regarding the gross margin guidance for flat to down slightly is the main driver there merchandise margin as you look forward.
Also if you could just comment a little bit on the Millennial strategies and which ones which efforts would you prioritize in terms of driving the ongoing progress there that would be great? Yes.
I mean the merchandise margins I think should be flat-ish maybe down slightly and then you have got the delivery expenses being the two factors that are impacting the year-to-year comparisons.
In total we expect the gross margins as I have said to be flat to down slightly.
In terms of the Millennial at this point our strategies are working well.
I am thrilled with the progress in the junior arena the continued very high growth in Impulse which is the older Millennial that's and apparel component cosmetics shoes handbags et cetera.
Also in fact here is the component in home now so we are feeling very good about our efforts to attract that sort of older Millennial customer.
Kids has done well as well as on the men's side so you know at least in the second quarter and hopefully ongoing we shall go to that all components.
Thank you.
Just as a follow-up in your comments in your press release and in the call about the customer still not feeling comfortable about spending more does that change the way in which you work with vendors you as you develop an exclusive proprietary kind of product and how you think about planning product with the vendors given this environment? I don't think it really changes it.
I mean you know the customers today are looking for great new fashion and products at a great value but that really hasn't changed all that dramatically but obviously we are constantly looking to work with our vendors in new ways looking for innovative ideas.
Again the good news is I think we and the major brands are working very effectively together on these strategies.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Thank you.
The next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning Lorraine.
You were able to maintain your full-year EPS guidance even though you lowered the comp so can you talk about were cost issues or what changed to the back half view that allowed you to keep the range where it was? Well I think it's the expense performance in the first half as well as our plans for the second so the sales came was lower the margins stayed the same so it's the expense that is enabling us to do that.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Paul Trussell of Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
Can you help us understand the underlying second quarter comp trend? What was impact from the calendar shift that started off the quarter? Also just to clarify your back-to-school comments which I believe you said were strong.
Was there a recent acceleration in the comp trend over the last few weeks? I was committing only on the quarter.
We will talk about the third quarter when we finish the third quarter but we feel good about the back-to-school business.
As I said all the components were doing well are doing well.
Okay.
What was the impact from the calendar shift? You know it's hard - the only shift is the change in timing and friends and family.
Right.
We are not quantifying it but is obviously significant enough that we had called it out at the beginning of the year.
Okay.
I know you mentioned that Macy's and Bloomingdales both had sold quarters.
Just when you look at your Macy's business however are there any callouts or can you compare/contrast your how your higher end brands are performing versus opening price points? Do you see any differences there? Not really.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Good morning Karen.
Hey Matt.
As we think about the bottom-line opportunity here are you still comfortable with 14% EBITDA as a goal and would we need to macro improvement to start to move toward 15% over time? We are still comfortable with 14% and we have taken 15% out of our discussion so I don't think 15% is going to be possible at this point given the investments making to grow the business so if I were you all I would think the 14% and yes we will get there and we are making progress but I don't think we will get to 15%.
Okay.
Then as we think about the… By the way you wouldn't want us to get to 15% because it would require not investing in the business the way I think we should to get to get the growth.
Got it.
Then as we think about the competitive backdrop as you think about online any changes that you have seen with Amazon or others? Then anything with the off-price channel is there anything you can do pricing perspective that you think you need to do to maintain the value proposition? Yes.
I mean we have really have not seen much change in the competition but we are constantly looking at value.
Obviously value relative to the off-price channel becomes relevant so yes we are looking at that Matt but don't really have anything to update you on.
Okay.
Great.
Best of luck.
The next question is from Dana Telsey of Telsey Advisory Group.
Good morning Karen.
Hi Dena.
Hi.
You talked a little bit about you are in the early stages of exploring the Omni opportunity.
How do you see that going forward in the investment spend that you are making and what benefits should we see given it seems like it's helping in terms of top-line helping in terms of driving sales.
Lastly as you think about the core categories that performed well and the rebounding in furniture and mattresses was that rebound in furniture and mattress is big ticket was it the weather improved when you got them out there? How did you see it? Thank you.
There's a lot of questions there.
I think the Omni opportunity is first and foremost sales growth but what we are also finding is that this gross margin opportunity as well as turnover opportunity from again better coordinating across the company and looking at inventory across channels as well as marketing across channels so I actually see it as a huge opportunity across the whole P&amp;L and balance sheet and very exciting.
In terms of the businesses had improved I don't think it's weather-related.
I just think that again I can't tell you what happened to big ticket in the first quarter but it certainly rebounded in the second and we feel better about that going forward.
Thank you.
The next question is from Liz Dunn of Macquarie Capital.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I am interested in the Herald Square renovation.
Obviously it's still ongoing and will take a few years but so far it looks like the parts of the store that you have renovated look terrific.
I was just wondering is the outperformance that you saw in the quarter from Herald Square that you called out was that specific to those departments that have been renovated or can you just give us any more color there? Yes.
I mean the good news is the areas that are renovated are obviously seeing the biggest pickup but we are seeing in the areas that were completed earlier we continue to see outsized growth so after they year-end continue to do better.
Obviously once people are in the store they are buying in other areas as well so we are seeing strength across which is really exciting.
Great.
I am also interested in your efforts to sort of specifically market to consumers via digital methods.
How sophisticated are your digital marketing efforts in customizing a message for consumers based on purchase history or even when they log on to give them a specific homepage? What are you doing to improve those areas? I would say that today we are very sophisticated relative to our peers however we are constantly investing and looking to hire talent to even accelerate those efforts because we do believe it's very important for competing effectively going forward but I would say today we are very good at that but are investing to get even better.
Okay.
Great.
Then just one final one the continued improvement that you saw in Juniors and Impulse is that driven primarily by some of your investments in private and exclusive brands or is it sort of shared with national brands? It's shared across the board.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Next question is from Bernard Sosnick of Gilford Securities.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I don't think I have ever heard a lineup of good news that included all that you said today about Juniors Kids Impulse Activewear.
I mean you have put in a lot of effort to develop the Millennial strategy and to make the department store younger in feel.
I am wondering if you can give us a broad-brush view of how your thinking might be changing along these positive lines going forward.
I am not sure I understand what would be changing.
Well I mean you are doing so well I am wondering whether or not you are feeling that there is a success in making the store younger in feel and could you share with us any forward-looking thoughts? Well I think you know we have said all along that investing in this Millennial customer was important for going forward and that's part of the reason we feel so good about the future for Macy's.
By the way the same is true for Bloomingdales in their own way.
Again I think it's important for us going forward.
I am thrilled to be seeing the success.
You called out Finish Line is doing very well.
I know it should be up to around 400 stores with shops by October.
What does it mean to have brands like Nike in the store where you didn't have it before? I am sure it is mainly for women but what are the prospects for men's and kids athletic footwear? It's actually not primarily for women.
It's doing extremely well across men's women's and where we have it in kids.
We are beginning to grow that more aggressively now.
In most cases we had the brands.
We just didn't have the right shoes and it is making an enormous difference and really giving us credibility that's helping us with our overall active strategy also.
Correct.
Thank you very much.
The next question is from Richard Jaffe of Stifel.
Thanks very much.
Stifel we say Stifel.
Hi Karen.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a follow-on on the Internet business.
As you guys have led the charge if you will to an Omnichannel vision clearly you are learning a lot of things that work and don't work.
I would love you to share that with us and I suspect you won't but wondering just from a dollars and cents standpoint you have been investing a lot.
Has it been well invested is there more investment ahead that you have learned that you need to do or is the investment that has been done now going to be harvested or beneficial without additional investment for the next couple of years? No.
It's a complicated question but we will continue to invest and there is different parts of the investment.
The first would be how to make our strategies between .com and stores and the systems work well together.
That's one piece of investment.
You've got the warehouses that we have been investing in.
As you know I just started building a new one in Tulsa so those will continue.
You will have store technology which we are testing like crazy and will continue to test and rollout things that work so I think you should assume that Omnichannel and technology investments are going to be an ongoing part of both our capital budget and also our expense.
Got it.
Thank you.
The next question is from Stacie Rabinowitz of Consumer Edge Research.
Hi.
You had mentioned that the back-to-school categories in some of the younger age demographics were doing very well.
I was just wondering as we sort of moved through the end of the summer was there any change in the cadence of back-to-school versus last year or do you think the momentum could continue until school starts? I don't know we will have to wait and see.
The momentum didn't change.
I mean it was strong throughout the quarter.
Obviously the back-to-school business really started towards the end of July.
There is still a lot to come.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Our next question is from David Glick of Buckingham Research Group.
Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered Karen just a couple of category follow-ups.
You mentioned I believe it was men's sportswear women's sportswear on the weaker categories as well as fashion footwear.
Women's sportswear not a new you mentioned I was just wondering in your men's sportswear commentary are you including some of the better brands or what you consider more classification sportswear? It's just overall apparel business did not do as well both men's and women's.
On the footwear side obviously the composition of the assortments changes pretty dramatically from fall to spring.
Are you feeling any more optimistic about footwear as a category based on some of the ideas that you are seeing? Yes.
We are.
Okay.
Then finally the risk of beating a dead horse I know that there was a significant impact in the Q2 comp from those two days of friends and family but is it fair to say that the underlying you guys look at the underlying run rate in Q2 axe that event still within the guidelines of what you are forecasting in the second half of 2 to 3? I think the horse is dead buy yes.
But yes? Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
At this time we one question remaining in the queue.
(Operator Instructions) We will take our next question from Craig Hutson of Loop Capital Markets.
Yes.
Just a balance sheet question.
We have seen a number of tender offers in the last months including from some big retailers like Target and CVS.
CVS announced a tender last week where the highest coupon in the tender offer was 6.25%.
You guys have 21 issues in your capital structure greater than 6.25%.
What's the rationale for why specifically you have not gone down this path to pursue tender offers for your high cost debt? We are always looking at the net present value of these kinds of transactions.
If positive we would entertain one.
If not we wouldn't.
By net present value we estimate you could save $100 million of annual interest expense.
Can you just walk me through this calculation? No.
I mean you are obviously looking - even you have to look at the premium you are going to have to pay et cetera.
Great.
I mean it's a cash flow question for us.
Okay and more sort of cash flow question then just the overall improvement in interest savings and earnings.
Correct.
We are driven by cash flow not earnings per share.
All right.
Thank you.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
Ms.
Hoguet I would like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you all for your interest and support.
If you have additional questions feel free to call us.
Have a good day.
Thanks.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Macy’s Inc.
Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately 2 hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Please keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company’s most recently filed Form 10-K.
We’re very pleased with our earnings in the third quarter especially in light of the weaker than expected sales.
Some of the strengthen earnings relates to timing shifts with the fourth quarter some asset sales happened earlier than anticipated and some expenses most notably in marketing were delayed in order to drive sales in the fourth quarter.
However earnings in the quarter still would have been strong without these shifts.
As to the sales trend we knew that year rounding on last year’s very strong third quarter sales performance would be challenging.
In fact on a two year basis our trend in the third quarter was essentially the same as it was in the first half of the year.
Nonetheless we were disappointed with our sales.
We assume that we were not immune to the weaker than anticipated consumer spending which has been acknowledged or reported by other retailers.
Clearly the warmer temperatures throughout much of the country also hurt sales but that alone does not explain all of our sales shortfall in the third quarter.
As we look at the fourth quarter however we are still feeling positive and better outlook and the opportunity for improved top line performance.
And MOM’s strategies my Macy's Omnichannel and Magic Selling and our tactics for the fourth quarter will enable us to compete effectively.
In addition economic conditions do seem to be strengthening and we had a relatively weaker fourth quarter last year which should be easier to improve upon then with the case in this third quarter.
More on our fourth quarter assumptions in a few minutes let’s talk first about this third quarter.
Sales in the quarter were $6 195 million down 1.3% versus last year.
And on a comparable basis including license businesses sales were down 0.7% excluding the license businesses comp sales were down 1.4%.
Remember that last year our comp sales including the license businesses were up 4.6% so on a two year basis we were up 1.9% per year.
And this is about the same as the spring season trend.
Our strongest businesses in the quarter were handbags fragrances active and millennial apparel.
Our men’s business also strengthened through the quarter.
We were disappointed however that we did not sustain the momentum of the strong start to our back to school business in Kids.
Other weak categories in the quarter included our soft home businesses most notably housewares and textiles as well as women shoes cosmetics and non-Millennial feminine apparel.
Overall in the quarter the numbers of transactions were down slightly versus last year.
Units per transaction were down a little more and our average unit retail was up slightly.
We believe that the flattish number of transactions in the quarter is in part to the shift in marketing spend from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
Our strongest performing markets continue to be in eh sale and as always there were stores and markets outside the self that also performed well.
Most notably Herald Square and Colorado.
The Omnichannel activity on desktops tablets and smartphones continued to strong in the quarter.
The interaction between all the various channels continues to increase as customer shop and buy in new ways.
Buy Online Pickup in Store is gaining momentum and we believe it could be very important during the holiday period.
Bloomingdales also fell below expectations to top line sales in the third quarter.
The gross margin rate in the third quarter was flat two years ago.
Our merchandise margin was down at 10 and delivery expenses were higher than last year but those factors were offset by the increase in the commissions earned on the sales of license businesses.
We ended the quarter with inventory up approximately 1% versus last year.
As always we took the needed markdowns to keep our inventory current.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $2 007 million behind 4.4% from last year or as a percentage sale down 110 basis points.
We were very pleased with our ability to flex expense on the lower sales during the quarter.
We also continue to benefit from the approximately $100 million in annual cost reduction initiatives that we implemented at yearend 2013 as well as lower retirement income and strong credit performance.
Included in this third quarter were net gains on asset sales of approximately $48 million.
These gains were mostly expected this year but not until the fourth quarter and remember that last year we had $58 million of gains on asset sales in the fourth quarter.
In addition as previously mentioned we shifted marketing expense to the fourth quarter.
Retirement expense was $42 million below last year in the third quarter.
This is actually better than expected and we are now trending to approximately $165 million lower retirement expense than last year for the full year versus our prior guidance of $150 million reduction.
And depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $263 million or up $6 million over last year’s expected.
Credit income was $182 million $12 million higher than last year.
Usage of our proprietary cards increased 10 basis points over the last year in the quarter reaching 48.7% and while on the subject of credit I want to point out that we signed over new loan expansions of our partnership with Citi that now goes until 2025 instead of 2016 expiration of our original contract.
We are very pleased to be able to continue this very important partnership and to do so and substantially the same economic terms.
Operating income in the quarter was $422 million up 17% over last year and 110 basis points above last year as a percentage of sales.
Interest expense $96 million or equal to it over a year ago and tax expense was a $109 million with an effective tax rate of 33.4%.
Net income was $217 million or up 23% over the last year.
Average diluted share count was 357.7 million shares or 6% below a year ago.
During this third quarter we utilized approximately $534 million to buy back 9 million shares.
We have bought back over 25 million shares year-to-date for close to $1.5 billion.
EPS on a diluted basis in this third quarter was $0.61 or up 30% above last year’s $0.47 cash provided by operations net of cash used for investing activities was $181 million year-to-date approximately $97 million below last year.
There are lots of ins and outs on the cash flow but the big changes were the $112 million more in CapEx the purchase of property and equipment as well as the capitalized software which is consistent with our planned $1.1 billion of CapEx for this year.
Also the impact of the pension changes impact the cash flow that we made at the end of last year that impacts other assets and other liabilities when looking at it on a year-over-year basis.
So overall I would say that this third quarter was disappointed on the top line but strong in terms of the bottom line.
So let’s move on to the fourth quarter.
As I said earlier we have optimism surrounding our strategies and the strength in our execution capabilities we also see positive factors in the economy lower gas prices lower unemployment and healthy financial markets.
We are however balancing these factors with the reality of the recent trend caused in part by customer spending more their disposable dollars on categories we don’t sell like cars healthcare electronics and home improvement.
So as we evaluate all of these factors the positive and the negative we are assuming the comp sales including license businesses will increase by approximately 2% to 3% in the fourth quarter were 1.8% to 2.8% if we exclude our license businesses.
Assuming we achieved this fourth quarter growth the comp growth including license businesses for the falls season would be 0.9% to 1.5% up or 0.5% to 1.1% without the license departments.
And this compares to our prior guidance of 2% to 3% for the fall season.
Some of the strategies behind our confidence in the outlook include the following: 1) We have lots of newness this year in our store gifts program with greater exclusivity and more better and best products.
We have new vendors included this year including Kate Spade Marc Jacobs and Fields.
And our gifts program this year will be content versioned for different parts of the country.
So we store gift from a vendor could be a heavy sweater in the north but a wealth ensure in a hard or a [indiscernible] or it could be different color pallets and say Kashmir depending on the part of the country or a half zip in the north could be a half zip nylon jacket in the south.
The importance of having the most wanted well curetted assortment location eye location can absolutely not to be overlooked.
2) A second key strategy is a wholly revamped and very powerful transition approach as we move from late December into January when self purchasing becomes key.
3) Our biggest brands are healthy and that offers great news for us in the fourth quarter gift giving.
4) Our marketing will be key in communicating our value and newness messages.
The calendar is loaded as it always is at this time of the year but the greater integration of the increased digital spend should help us drive business in all channels.
5) Our store teams have our stores looking better than ever and our associates are ready to engage with our customers and help to deliver great experiences throughout the season.
6) As I mentioned a few minutes ago Buy Online Pickup in Store has a potential of driving lots of last minute gift purchasing as convenience become so important to our busy shoppers.
Having said all that we do expect the competition to be fierce but we are ready and we believe that we can deliver our sales expectations.
We had discussed at the end of the second quarter that we had an expectation for a flat to slightly down gross margin rate in the back half of the year and that expectation has not changed which means that the fourth quarter margin could be flat or could decline.
We are expecting a slight decline in merchandise margin compounded by an increase in delivery expense but we are hoping to be able to offset these factors again through the license income.
SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter will be negatively impacted due to the timing of items mentioned earlier.
Remember that last year in the fourth quarter we had $58 million of asset sale gains which we do want to expect to repeat given the $48 million in gains that occurred this year in the third quarter.
We also shifted as I mentioned some of our marketing spends from the third quarter end of the fourth quarter.
So while we expect SG&amp;A as the percentage sales to improve versus last year for the fall season as a whole it will likely not do so in the fourth quarter.
Our EPS guidance for the year is now $4.25 to $4.35 on a diluted basis and this compares to our prior guidance of $4.40 to $4.50.
This reduction is entirely due to the impact of the reduced sales performance in the third quarter and our assumption after the fourth quarter.
This new guidance equates to fourth quarter EPS of approximately $2.30 to $2.40.
As in prior years we are not including in our guidance any store closing related cost or asset impairment charges that could be incurred at yearend.
Sort to summarize it may be an understatement to say that we have our accelerator pedal push to the floor this holiday season.
You will see this in our stores on our websites and in our new apps.
We have very carefully strategized had a maximized each element of MOM.
So the customer gets the fun fashion convenience individualized service and value that she wants and expects from us.
You should not overlooked the fact that giving a gift from Macy’s or from Bloomingdales means something special to many customers and we know that many shoppers come to us first at this time of year.
We take this natural competitive advantage very seriously and we are using every chance to excite our customers at every time.
We have all witnessed a fair amount of negativity and skepticism about the economy in the year much of that amplified by the recent election campaigning.
Going forward we see signs that we might gain a bit more tailwind from improved customer sentiment higher employment and lower gas prices.
We are not counting on a lot of help from the economy this holiday but every little bit will help.
But as always and as you heard me describe we have focused our energy and our resources and what we can control which means executing a great plan in the fourth quarter the table is set and we are all well prepared to drive the business as we convert customer traffic to profitable sales.
And I will stop here now and take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Hey Karen good morning.
Good morning Matt.
So clearly business has been more choppy the last 12 to 18 months it’s not Macy specific but as we look beyond the holiday.
If we assume that current conditions hold and maybe we don’t see some of these gas price benefits and things like that.
I mean is it best to think about Macy as a one that you comp model or can you walk through some of the drivers to outperform this threshold just kind of trend and think about the go forward.
Yes we are spending a lot of time thinking about that a lot of that we believe relates to assortments and making sure that we have the best products in all categories for license businesses it helped us in some categories where we couldn’t get the right assortments like finish line or some glass and obviously Omnichannel is critical and all the new things going on but you may see Bloomingdales in terms of our size.
So I would say we continue to focus on the fundamentals f retail and expect that we can do better compounded with all of the added benefits of being on new Omnichannel.
Great.
And then so kind of follow on to that if you look at the expense structure and assuming again this challenge top line environment holds what kind of flexibility do you have can Macy’s lever at one that you comp and any room or opportunity for us to think about in terms of comp sales similar to this year that you had? I think you have found Macy’s has the ability to figure out the right expense structure and the right way of flexing expense we did it in the third quarter that something I think you can count on from us.
That’s great.
Thanks.
We will take our next question from Paul Swinand with Morningstar Inc.
Inc.</strong> Good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
Good morning.
Inc.</strong> Wanted to ask about all the Omnichannel initiatives and there was a press release on the September 15 obviously you updated us on progress that pick up of the store is now available and rolled out but you are testing Same Day Delivery.
Can you just update us on the progress and any early reason what’s your expectation is for the impact of those? I think it’s really early to give even answer to that we had said earlier that we probably take this fall and may be into the first quarter before we could really address it but so far we are optimistic on all of it Online Pickup in Store in the Same Day Delivery is available in eight markets and eight big markets in [indiscernible] and seems to be picking up.
So again we just have to see more as we get through Christmas but we are optimistic.
Inc.</strong> Do you think that those are competitive advantages and can you actually do them better than other retailers or is this just cable stakes everybody is going to have to spend for the risk and you are not going to be doing different than anyone else? I think our store footprint gives us a huge advantage with us given where the Macy stores are located and the technology that we have built and as in place to utilize our stores to fulfill inventory I’m sorry internet orders even if it’s not somebody picking it up in store I think as this is a huge advantage and we are working on take advantage of that as we go forward.
So I actually do think this gives a competitive advantage.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Interesting.
I will let somebody else go ahead and best of luck for holidays.
Thank you very much.
And we will take our next question from Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
Hey! Thanks.
Hey Karen.
Just on the flat gross margin in the third quarter just wondering if you would say that that was because your promotions were actually consistent on year-over-year basis.
So is there situation where you are getting a bit more help from vendors in terms of support and then totally separate just wondering if there are any examples if there are any retail competitors out there where you have seen them close stores that you could look at and say we are clearly seeing the pickup in volume in one of your stores that are nearby to that close store and what are those retailers that you are seeing them.
Thanks.
No.
I don’t know the answer to the second question I have not heard of any pick up from when store closes sometimes when an anchor closes in a mall we pick up a lot of business and sometimes the traffic in the mall gets hurt so that it doesn’t help us.
So I don't think there is any one answer that I can give you on that.
And on that smaller retailers we cannot see a big impact on the total store.
In terms of promotion this business has been very promotional for a while and you are not going to see big increases in promotions quarter to and then in any given time period.
So I would say your statement on the third quarter it's essentially true which there is not lot more promotional activity.
Okay.
Thanks.
And can you just comment quick on the big ticket performance how that performed.
I think it was better in the second quarter relative to the first.
How did that do in the third? Yes big ticket in the third did well.
Which is was not one of the standard categories but it certainly wasn’t one of the weakest.
Okay.
Thanks Karen.
Good luck.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Oliver Ken with Cowen &amp; Company.
Thank Karen.
And congrats on the expense control sharp.
Regarding it was nice that you are up slightly this quarter.
Do you expect that trend may continue? I know you focused on value and you also focused on value and you’re also focused on newness and Omnichannel initiatives.
So how these metrics evolve as we think about the aperture you are making in the assortment? It's a very hard number to predict because of all of the mix impacts.
So it's a hard question to answer but we are not expecting any significant change one way or the other in the fourth quarter.
Okay and could you comment briefly on the inventory freshness? You guys were honest about what you are seeing this quarter and the trends and you are guiding to some caution on the merge merchant side so how do you feel about the freshness and where there are opportunities in terms of the composition of inventory?  Yes I mean this is something that Macy’s does very well.
We are very focused on receipt flow which is us clearing out the things that aren’t selling so you can always bring in the newness and within that 1% increase we think that we have got the appropriate level of freshness.
Now that doesn't mean there aren’t pockets of inventory that are higher than we would like but overall I think we do a terrific job on this freshness issue and really do focus on making sure the quality of the inventory is good not just the quantity.
Great.
Thank you.
Best regards for holidays.
Thanks Oliver.
And we will take our next question from Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Good morning Karen.
I am wondering if you can talk a little bit about your experience with buy online pick up and store and if you are tracking the percent of those customers who are up for that service what percent are actually buying something else when they come into the store? Well we are still tracking and I think it's early to claim victory.
But we are finding a significant up spent in total on the customers that are coming into the store.
Now what I don't know is how much of that is incremental to be honest with you because they may have bought it online had they not come in store.
But it almost doesn't matter because the good news is once they are in the store frankly it's our job to see what else we can sell them and at least so far it seems to be working.
Great.
And I am wondering if the dark workers slow down in strikes that we have seen in the west coast pose any risk to the fourth quarter given the fact that you are going in with some pretty lean inventories? Yes we have been obviously working extraordinarily hard on this situation both in collaboration with the carriers but also our vendors.
We have seen some delays but we don't think that it's really impacted our ability to meet the required arrival dates so we are expecting.
So far I think we are okay and we got a ton of receipts in first week of November.
So we are feeling good about that.
But again it's a lot of hard work and a lot of people's part and finger crossed will be okay in total.
Got it and final question on the marketing _ ship I am wondering if you could quantify that a little bit for us because I am wondering obviously it raise the expense but if it's a big enough chunk hopefully it also drives incremental sales as well.
So can you talk to us a little bit about the dollar movement between Q3? Yes it's approximately $10 million I think a little bit north of that.
So it's big enough that it could have an impact.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We will take our next question from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Karen.
Hi! Paul.
You mentioned the kids business wasn’t able to sustain solid start to the quarter.
Could you just give us a little bit more detail on the overall sale cadence throughout 3Q and is there anything noteworthy over the past few weeks to call out that gives you confidence heading into the fourth quarter specially giving your assumption of an acceleration to two year trend? Yes I mean we had talked in August about the strong start to the back to school and early August end of July and then in Feb was the case but it did the kid business trend didn’t last through September and October which was disappointing to us.
So that was the call out there and as we look at the quarter August was great September and October were less so.
So that's really the trend there.
We started November on a great path but again the fourth quarter is made up from the week in November.
So I want to be careful there.
And Bloomingdale's was there a major spread between Bloomingdale's performance in Macy’s or any just color what you’re seeing? Well the expectations was about the same.
Okay.
And then lastly just on the expense management obviously that’s been impressive not just this quarter but over the past two years but asset sales have been the part of it.
Is this an ongoing opportunity and therefore won't be any hurdle major cycle next year? If you would ask me last year I would have told you that 58 million was going to be really hard year around this year and in this quarter we have 48 million.
So I don't know the answer to that.
It feels hominess as we go to 2015 but I hope that it's possible.
Thank you for the color Karen.
We will take our next question from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thanks.
Karen I am wondering if you can just look at the totality of 2014 so far as compared to 2013 and other categories that were stronger in 2013 that are just showing some momentum and then I am wondering if there – does the – do the work courses in the assortment really change between fall and holiday or is it – do you tend to see the items and the categories that are performing very very well in the third quarter also continuing to the fourth quarter? Holiday does have some difference so for example the effect that fragrances was so strong in the third quarter bodes well in the fourth quarter because that tends to be a gift business.
So there are categories that performed in Q3 that make us feel good about Q4.
So I would say there are some differences.
In terms of year-to-date versus last year it's a centered categories most notably hand bags that is just continued to perform well but it did last year also.
So that’s been a consistent performer.
The non Millennial apparel feminine apparel continues to struggle but it did last year also so again I don't think there is anything new with that.
Men’s has been sort of more consistent and home had a better year last year than is this year.
And again the third quarter as I mentioned was tough in terms of soft term big ticket has been pretty good both years.
Alright.
Okay.
Karen good luck for holiday.
Thanks.
I appreciate it Kimberly.
We will take our next question from Stephen W.
Grambling with Goldman.
Research Division</strong> Hi! Karen.
Good morning.
Hi Stephen.
Good morning.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on some of your earlier questions on SG&amp;A it looks like the core expense growth rate there was likely flat this past quarter just hoping you could maybe expand on some of the things that are being done in store with the Omnichannel business to keep that down and also as the flow through changed as online has become just the bigger percentage of sales? Well the business model is changing with Omnichannel.
We talked about that for a long time that a lot of the online orders that are shipped have a higher variable cost component than when you walk in a store and walk out.
But that sort of become part of the model at this point and I think we are managing it quite well.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful and then changing gears just is there any update that you can provide on the opportunity from the Nike training club or active more broadly as we move into the holiday and beyond? Well Active has been as you know a very strong category for us and it continues to do so.
Obviously the Nike training club has been a big success but the business in total where we don't have those training clubs are also doing quite well.
Research Division</strong> So is there an opportunity to expand the assortment there is there plans in place that you can help quantify? Well we are constantly looking for ways of growing the active business more aggressively with some new vendors with some new approaches and new assortments.
So you will see that continue to be a focal point for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Lorraine Maikis Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Karen you said you made a comment that the economic condition seemed to be strengthening.
Could you just elaborate a little bit about what you are seeing out there.
Well I think I am seeing what everybody is also seeing which is lower unemployment lower gas prices and relatively healthy financial markets.
So all of that should do well.
Research Division</strong> And have you found a strong correlation between gas prices and your consumer and their willingness to spend on discretionary items?  Well I believe we have seen some relationship in terms of discretionary spending gas prices.
But I think customers are choosing to spend their disposable dollars in different ways that's part of the reason why we are not more optimistic about the lower gas prices.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Bob Drbul with Nomura Securities.
Hi Karen.
Good morning.
Hey Bob.
Good morning.
I just wanted to double check a couple of numbers.
On the SG&amp;A so was it $48 million from the asset sale gain $42 million from pension $12 million from credit.
So excluding those three numbers SG&amp;A was up $10 million.
are those numbers --? Why would you exclude those numbers? No no I am just trying to look at the core --? Credit is core.
Retirement is core.
Okay.
No I am just --? No.
No.
seriously the only thing that I wouldn't call core was the asset sales and then the question that was -- is that becoming core the answer maybe yes but in any case $48 million you could take up with others or really part of the operation.
Okay.
Right.
You talked about the men's business I think strengthening throughout the quarter can you just elaborate on what you are seeing there? Yes I mean the business did pick up as we went through the third quarter particularly in the sports wear area.
Okay.
And then on the new store openings can you just give us an update on where you stand this year but in the next year as well? Sure I mean as we look at this year we opened in August the new store in the Bronx the Bay plaza and then we have just recently opened three stores Summerland in Los Vegas and Macy store UTC University Town center [indiscernible] which is the Macy store and then Bloomingdale's opened a replacement store at the center out in -- and I admit I have not seen these but I hear from the people who have that looks spectacular and hopefully I will get to see them before along as we go to next year in 2015 we have two announced openings one in Porto Rico from Macy and then really exciting Bloomingdale's store in Hawaii.
Great.
And then I guess the last question I will have you always share with us like recent my Macy victories are there any like stories that you could share with in terms of what you are still doing in my Macy side that have been there? I think the best example right now is some of the examples I gave in terms of the holiday gifting strategy.
We are doing – I think what we will prove to be a much better job in having the right gifts in the right stores and thinking about color pallets by stores that just keeps getting better so I think those are some of the best examples of like.
Right.
Thank you very much.
We will get our next question from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Hey Karen.
Good morning.
Hi Michael.
Good morning.
I guess on the category to follow-up on two things could you mentioned cosmetics little bit slower for productivity and I think margins for you guys over long period maybe talk about what you think going on there and then any ideas on your recent comment there on why men sportswear might have been improving in the quarter.
Yes.
In terms of cosmetics in some cases the couple of the vendors reduced the marketing spent which had a negative impact on the business.
Some of the impulse parts of cosmetics that younger brands actually had a decent quarter.
So hopefully it will get better as we get to the fourth quarter.
And hopefully some of those issues will be addressed.
Okay and then sportswear in the quarter you said improved.
Yes it has men's.
b Any reason why we haven’t heard that one little while just curious.
Well I think the sportsmen look better from what I have heard but again I can't be specific brand to brand.
Okay.
And is there any way you can help us think as we look at 2015 what retirement expense should look like obviously there is lot of moving parts in the cost structure this year that I think lot of people are trying to figure out as we turn our eyes to 2015 here in the next --? Yes it will not be the improvement you have seen this year.
So I don't know whether it will yet but obviously when we get 2015 guidance we will share that.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
We will take our next question from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Hi Karen.
Hi Dana.
As you think of private brand versus national brand any update on how those are performing and then in the execution of Omnichannel and online it certainly seems better than last year and just more advanced were you on the journey deliver expense moving little bit higher how do you see delivery fitting in and certainly with that press release with all the initiatives how do you – where is Omnichannel in the cadence and it seems like a bigger part of cap as we move forward? Thank you.
Let me start with the second question.
There is no question that we are executing Omnichannel better this year than last year and we will do better next year than this year because it really is changing some of the fundamental ways we do business and so we do keep getting better and better.
And managing it in a way that makes it more profitable.
So I think on both of those accounts we will continue to do better and I don't know where we are in the journey but there is no question it's going to continue to help us get us ways to service the customers better and better.
And as I mentioned earlier I really do think our store footprint gives us a real benefit when it comes to servicing customers who like to shop online.
So I think all of that is good and very positive for the future and clearly we are spending a big percentage of our capital budget on technology and supporting this business but frankly I don't know how you can compete as a retailer today without doing so.
So I feel really good – I think we are ahead of the game when it comes to bricks and model retailers as you know we started Macy.com approximately 15 years ago and has been on a steady improvement ever since interestingly under the same management of Messi.com so I think that's going to be continue to be a key competitive advantage for us and that's true for Bloomingdale's as well.
In terms to your question on brands our private brands have done extremely well this year and we just see more and more upside and I think as you all know we are launching a major brand after the first of the year I think in February and at the routine customer name [indiscernible] that we are extraordinarily excited about.
So I think the ability of our private brand team to work with our merchants really is going to continue to be help us as we go forward.
Thank you.
We will get our next question from Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Thanks very much and thank you Karen.
As you look into the pipeline the deliveries that fortunately for you’re -- seem to be on time I am wondering if there is anything that you are uncomfortable with or just the opposite is it mix that you are seeing has very well assorted based on Q trend? Deliveries not sure I understand.
The goods that are yet to be put in stores the merchandise -- You are talking about the port issue? Port issue on one hand and then the content of what's coming in.
so -- Well in terms of our ability to award the inventory properly and flowing it properly I have I have a lot of confidence with the team did a great job.
In terms of any disruptions from the port we have a spectacular team managing that situation and I feel really good about their ability to manage it to the best to their abilities.
I am sure there will be some vendors and some product that doesn't get to us on time but I am really hoping it doesn't become a major issue for the company as a whole.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
Thank you.
Good morning Karen.
I am just follow-up on couple of categories obviously it's tough to be successful overall if the ready-to-wear non-ready to wear and women shoes are challenging categories I’m just wondering how much improvement you really counting on as per your Q4 plan how much you think weather may have played on those businesses and the boot category and some of the seasonal categories and ready to wear and there any science or life there in those categories.
I just agree with you basic that we can't do well without ready to wear and shoes helping.
Having said that we do hope that they will help not counting on huge improvement and trend clearly weather was a factor and if you think about AUR or boot versus shoes when you are not selling boots it’s going to hurt your business ready to wear obviously gets impacted by weather but in our guidance for the fourth quarter we are not counting on enormous numbers some either of those category.
Great.
Thanks for the clarification.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Stacie Rabinowitz with Consumer Edge Research.
Hi I actually wanted to ask something some more but I guess in a very different.
The strength in Millennial Apparel this quarter is really amazing and you guys had strategies for that category and put concentrated effort behind it.
Women’s Apparel has been weak for a while and it’s been weak across the space but are there any specific plans to target that category for growths going ahead.
The order Millennial? I’m sorry the non- Millennial? The non- Millennial women.
Yes I mean absolutely we’ve got a team working on it.
They are very excited about some of the things happening in the spring not necessarily the fourth quarter and we have to see in part it’s a new brand that I talked to you about and the Latino customer which really came out of the lot of our Macy’s work that we have a need for a brand that would address the said color and style preferences of that customer yes we had some things underway and we are hoping that in this time next year we will be talking about The non- Millennial women’s apparels being a strong category.
Great.
Thanks.
And we will take our next question from Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Good morning.
Hi good morning.
For Millennial strategies worked very well and I’m wondering you sided that there is a change in consumer spending behavior and what would technology a lot of it is being done by the Millennial is there any thought being given it may see including new categories of merchandise more in the technology area getting back to what department stores used to be at least on one small --? I think you have seen us think about lots of new categories and technology.
In some cases others and obviously not always having to be controlled by us finish line to me is a perfect example of that where we won't be able to do the active footwear business as well as we thought we needed to but view that as a key part of our Millennial strategy so we found a way to do that.
So I expect that there will be other opportunities like this to expand the breadth of categories that we carry within the store.
And you are including hard lines perhaps.
Absolutely.
I mean anything we are looking to see what is our customer bind and what they want and we are just Macy’s credibility.
Okay thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our next question from [Indiscernible] with Macquarie.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
One of the recent press release has announced that partnership with Altair for Macy’s International location in the UAE is there a roadmap for how many stores you can see in the Gulf region and could you see additional partnerships outside the Gulf region over the next few years? As you know we have a Bloomingdale in Dubai with the same partner and so this is an extension of that partnership which has worked extraordinarily well how many more stores could happen we don’t know for either Bloomingdale or Macy’s in the Middle East but we are extraordinarily pleased with Dubai.
Interestingly one of the benefits of Bloomingdale is opening there -- also help to business in the U.S.
with the global tourist.
So we are excited that we will hopefully get the same benefit on the Macy’s side and it is possible that we could do partnerships like this in other parts of the world but again at this point the only place where we have got something to talk about is the Middle East.
Okay great.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no other questions I will turn it back over to Karen Hoguet for any closing remarks.
We thank you all for your interest your support and as always if you have other questions call me call Matt Sarah and will do our best to get you the answers as quick as we can thanks and take care.
And that concludes today’s conference call and we appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Macy’s Inc.
Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's conference call.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately two hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company’s most recently filed Form 10-K.
We are very happy to report that we have reached our long-term profitability target of 14% EBITDA rate for fiscal 2014.
As you know this has been a goal on which we have stayed focused even after the setback in the 2008-2009 recession.
We also were able to achieve 10% adjusted EPS growth in 2014 and hit the low end of our original guidance from a year ago a $4.40 to $4.50 for annual EPS and exceeded our revised guidance of $4.25 to $4.35 that we had provided at the start of the fourth quarter.
We at Macy's had put together a string of very good years and we have no intention of stopping now.
Think about Macy's journey over the past 10 years as having three phases.
The first phase began in 2005 with the May Company acquisition.
We took two very good retail companies and put them together to form a really great company with a huge depth of talent great store location an early stage online business and relationships with most wanted merchandise brand including our own private brands.
In the first phase we converted a disparate collection of regional name plates into a nationwide Macy's brand and a somewhat larger Bloomingdale's brand.
The second phase began 2008 and 2009 as we molded ourselves around the MOM strategy My Macy's Omnichannel and MAGIC Selling.
In these past six years we have made enormous stride in adopting and involving localization creating a truly Omichannel business with seamless integration across stores online and mobile and deepening customer engagement through MAGIC selling.
In this second phase we found growth in both owned and license businesses.
We put together five consecutive years of comp sales growth six consecutive years of double digit growth and adjusted EPS and now hit a longstanding target of the 14% EBITDA rate.
Coming into 2015 we entered our third phase.
Having now reached one of the industry's highest profitability rate we are focusing ourselves on accelerating top-line sale growth while maintaining this best in class profitability rate.
You have seen this restructure merchandising and marketing with an Omichannel view of our customer inventories and business.
We also brought all of our technology functions under one senior leader.
We have aligned all the elements of our base business so we can act faster and be quicker to decision in driving organic growth and we also now set up a new structure with top talent to foster innovation and new business opportunities such as international and off price.
The upcoming acquisition of Bluemercury creates an entirely new channel to reach additional customer segments while also helping to grow beauty in our base business.
As exiting and gratifying as the first two phases have been this new phase we have entered has the opportunity to take our company to a whole new level of success.
We have the ability to create a larger relationship with existing customers and make inroads with customers that have not traditionally shopped either Macy's or Bloomingdale.
So let's talk now about the fourth quarter and the highlights of the full-year performance.
I will then talk about our outlook for 2015 and end as always by taking your question.
Our fourth quarter sales were $9.364 billion up 1.8% over last year.
As we announced on February 3 our sales increased 2.5% on a comp own-plus-license basis in the quarter.
Our stronger businesses in the fourth quarter were coats active dresses handbags younger millennial apparel shoes both men's and women's cosmetics and furniture mattresses.
Interestingly two of those dresses and shoes men's and women's were areas where we tested the single view of inventory between stores and our direct-to-customer warehouses.
This is what we just rolled out company-wide as a result of these successes.
This gives us great optimism for our ability to accelerate growth.
The weaker businesses in the quarter were Housewares and Top of Table.
Geographically we did the best in the southern region as well as the Midwest.
Our strongest growth markets were throughout the southwest but also included Colorado and Midwest markets such as Chicago Detroit and Indiana.
Our tourist stores for both Macy's and Bloomingdale were heard in the quarter driven by weaker international tourist spending in light of the stronger dollar.
In spite of this though Bloomingdale had a good quarter and improved versus their third quarter trend.
Our digital channels at both Macy's and Bloomingdale did extremely well in the quarter.
We were very focused and pleased with what we accomplished with buy online pickup in store both because of the number of the customers who utilized this new way of shopping but also for the radiated sales that we got when the orders were picked up.
And our Same Day Delivery test was successful and we will expand in 2015 to additional markets.
Average unit retail in the quarter was 1.4% versus last year with total transactions up 2.5% and average units per transaction down 1.3%.
Gross margin in the fourth quarter was 40.3% down 30 basis points from last year.
Merchandise margin was down by approximately the same amount.
The growth in delivery expense due to the Omni transaction was offset by the increase in income from the license businesses and other miscellaneous factors.
Recall though that I told you to expect a decline in gross margin rate in the fourth quarter and for the back half of the year our gross margin rate was down 10 basis points which was consistent with our guidance.
Inventory at year-end was down 0.7% below last year and on a comp basis it was up 0.9% a little less than 1% of last year.
This is consistent with our strategy to improve inventory turnover.
At year-end we were not yet experiencing a problem from the West Coast port slowdown.
Since then however our inventory levels have been negatively impacted particularly in apparel and accessories.
Approximately 12% of our first quarter merchandise receipts are being delayed and this will have some impact on our sales gross margin and expense in the first few months of the year but we have incorporated our expectations into the guidance we provided today.
SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter was $2.324 billion up 1% over last year and down 20 basis points as a percentage of sales.
This is better than we had expected.
The primary reasons for expense being lower than we expected were lower medical and retirement expenses and stronger than expected credit performance.
Credit income in the quarter was $240 million up $22 million over last year.
The usage of our proprietary credit cards reached 47.4% which is 30 basis points above last year.
Retirement expense in the quarter was $12 million which also was better than expected.
The quarter also included asset sale gain of $36 million which is $22 million lower than then asset sale gain last year in the fourth quarter.
Operating income excluding impairments store closings and other costs was therefore $1.451 billion up from last year's $1.437 billion on the same basis.
This increase was 1% but remember there were shifts between the third and fourth quarters.
And for the second half of the year operating income on this basis was up over 4%.
Impairment store closing cost and other costs were $87 million which is better than the $100 million to $110 million we had expected when the announcement was made in early January.
This is primarily because severance came in lower than anticipated.
Of this amount approximately $33 million relates the non-cash asset impairment.
Interest expense in the quarter was $97 million and we also paid a $70 million premium on the early retirement of the debt in the quarter.
Tax expense was $457 million in the quarter and net income was $793 million.
Excluding the impairment store closing debt premium and other cost net income was $857 million in the quarter down slightly from last year's $865 million.
Average diluted share count in the quarter was 351 million shares which is 6.5% lower than last year.
During the fourth quarter we utilized $470 million to buyback stock brining the full-year stock buyback amount to $1.9 billion.
And during the year we bought back 31.9 million shares.
EPS in the fourth quarter on a diluted basis was $2.26 or $2.44 excluding the items mentioned earlier.
This is up 5.6% over last year on the same basis.
So as I said earlier the fourth quarter performance helped to make 2014 another good year for Macy's.
Let me just summarize five key highlights as I look back on 2014.
Comp sales on an own-plus-license basis were up 1.4% for the full-year.
And while we think we fared well versus competitors we did not achieve our original expectation.
We achieved 10% adjusted EPS growth in the low end of our original guidance.
Our adjusted EPS has grown 26% per year since 2009.
We hit our long term goal in 2014 of reaching the 14% EBITDA rate and we achieved a return on invested capital of 22.4% 90 basis points above last year and we generated over $1.7 billion of cash flow after operating and investing activities which is about the same as we did last year.
CapEx in the year was $1.068 billion which was a little below our $1.1 billion budget due to timing.
We are very proud of this performance but as we look forward we are focused on accelerating growth.
The changes made to our organization in January and in early February were made with this in mind.
We reorganized our merchant and marketing organizations to make them faster more nimble and better connected between the stores and the digital world.
While we now have Omni buyers and planners who span both channels we also have digital merchants who are 100% dedicated to working with the Omni merchants to drive digital growth.
Just to be clear we did not eliminate .com merchants at Macy's.
We do realize that we have lots of people learning new parts of their jobs but we believe our teams can make these changes and still deliver the expected result this year.
We also made changes to our senior team to enable two key executives to focus more on growth Jeff Gennette our President and Peter Sachse.
Jeff replaced himself as Chief Merchant so he could have more time to strategize growth.
He will be focusing on organic growth including subjects like digital growth key families of business like beauty and jewelry as well as how to grow more aggressively with our private brands as well as our key vendor partners.
Peter will be working on new growth initiatives and innovation.
This is the first time we have had a senior person assigned full-time to focus on growth.
Short-term Peter is working with his new team on piloting and off price concept and developing our approach to innovation.
They also will be studying international opportunities both store and digital.
This is all very exciting and these changes have really energized our organization.
Adding to the excitement is the pending acquisition of Bluemercury.
We see such opportunity for Bluemercury to expand their business rapidly across the country in the digital channel and also maybe perhaps overseas down the road.
We also look forward to opening Bluemercury shops within our Macy's stores.
This accelerated growth won't happen overnight but we do expect it to make a difference in our top-line results over the next two to three years.
We will be testing different ideas and will rollout those ideas that have potential.
We are all very excited about this and much like our MOM strategy we expect our team to execute this well and deliver outstanding results.
Our guidance for 2015 a transition year and straightforward.
And even though we see it as a transition year we are still guiding to sales and EPS growth.
We are assuming comp growth of approximately 2% for 2015 on both an owned and an owned-plus-license basis with total sales growth of approximately 1%.
We're guiding to a flattish EBITDA rate as a percent of sales and earnings per share on a diluted basis of $4.70 to $4.80 per share.
In terms of capital spending we are increasing our budget by approximately $100 million to $1.2 billion to help fund the growth initiative.
We are making investments in growth but the key to our approach is balance.
We want to accelerate growth but it needs to be profitable growth.
By planning ahead we were able to offset these growth and technology investments as well as headwinds from higher expected benefit cost and information security with the $140 million savings that we're expecting to get from the restructuring that we announced in January.
And as you are building your detailed models for 2015 here are three other key planning assumptions that help.
Interest expense we're assuming at approximately $380 million.
We're planning a tax rate of approximately 37% and depreciation and amortization is expected to be approximately $1.060 billion in 2015.
We also will be closing the Bluemercury deal hopefully during the first quarter.
This guidance does not include Bluemercury but while that acquisition will add sales obviously to 2015 we don’t expect it to be accretive to earnings in this partial year.
As I said earlier we are very excited by the opportunities to accelerate sales of our base businesses of Macy's and Bloomingdale’s and going forward we see opportunity to accelerate our growth in other ways as well.
We look forward to updating you on our progress in the quarters and years ahead.
And before I pause for questions just one piece of housekeeping.
We have decided to change the time of our earnings calls going forward to 9:00 am Eastern Time beginning with our first quarter 2015 earnings call in May.
We had talked to many of you about this and concluded that it makes sense.
We think this will enable us to get information out to all of you faster after we release our earnings at 8:00 am.
And with that I'll open the call up for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And we'll go first to Oliver Ken with Cowen &amp; Company.
Congrats on solid results and on the evolution of model here.
Regarding the next steps in thinking about how you're looking at Macy's in a more growth orientated fashion on the off price side could you speak to the customer target and how vendor relationships may evolve and if online will play a role here? And just as a question for our models as we're thinking about the 2% comp guidance did you have an inclination in terms of how we should think about UPTs versus transactions in terms of what you're seeing and what we may extrapolate? Thank you.
Yes on the second question no we really -- its -- we don’t expect major change in average unit retail units per transaction etcetera as we looked at '15.
I mean in terms of the off price pilot I think it's pretty mature to really answer those questions.
We're obviously looking at stores and digital as we think about it going forward but not sure exactly yet how that will look.
So as we get to test and the pilot started we'll talk more about that.
Okay thank you.
Best regards.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Karen you called 2015 a transition year.
So guess I just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
Is that a year of increased cost and then we’ll see that investment come down -- No because remember we're holding to the 14% EBITDA rate.
So the key is holding the profit rate and trying to strategize to get greater growth.
So we don’t expect to see the accelerated growth in '15 hence the 2% comp guidance that’s really where the transition is.
As I said we expected to make the investments in growth and therefore the restructuring is funding those investments.
So anticipated and then planned for it but again holding both for EBITDA rate and also earnings growth.
Great.
And then as we look to our longer term cash flow model is $1.2 billion the new level of CapEx or is that -- would that be just for this year and then perhaps fell to come down a bit? Well I don’t think it will come down.
I think the question is how is the model going to evolve going forward but I don’t anticipate it going down.
Well there is going to be ongoing investments in technology for ever so I can't say you what they are going to be but year whatever was we budgeted last year there's new subjects to go in.
And so we believe that the technology spend will not go down at least as far out we can say and obviously we’re continuing to maintain and add new stores where we can.
So I really don’t anticipate a reduction.
Great.
Thank you.
And from Morgan Stanley we'll go next to Kimberly Greenberge Great.
Thank you.
A really fine end to the quarter or rather and for the year here in Q4 Karen.
Thank you Kim.
I'm wondering obviously the new strategies and initiatives you got you have in place to drive an accelerated revenue growth over the next two to three years 2015 if I could read between the lines is sort of seed year if you will to put the things in place that will drive that growth and I'm wondering what metrics internally will you all be looking at to gauge whether or not you are on track to deliver that acceleration and growth and are there ways that you can share some of that information with us along the way so that we can understand how you are performing relative to your expectation? So I think I mean the easiest way to track is going to be our comp sales performance.
So achieving that 2% will be very important as a signal as to whether things are working.
We will also be testing various things throughout the year but we won’t know the results until we get through the fourth quarter next year.
So it's going to be hard to keep you up-to-date.
Obviously if there's something we're either very excited about or we’re not going to pursue we'll tell you but we are testing what the concepts and ideas that we hope to rollout next year.
Much like if you think about the single view of inventory we tested it last year.
We started with dresses on the spring season of '14 and then added four or five business until the fall so that we would know whether we could roll it out this year.
And as I said earlier we were so excited by the results of those tests we rolled it out to the whole company.
Great.
Just a follow-up on your comp guidance for 2015.
The 2014 rate obviously fell just a fraction of a point underneath that 2% goal.
You've got a lot easier comparisons in 2015 but is there a something else feeding into that 2% comp target it 2015 that wasn't really there for 2014? No I mean '14 we did 1.4% so the 2% is actually higher than 14%.
So I don’t think there's anything unusual about the year 2015 when it comes to the comp guidance.
I mean anything unusual that could help it reaccelerate to the 2% level? Sure.
I can give you a whole list of things.
It gives me great confidence that it could do better but at the same time you just don’t know.
Okay.
Thanks Karen.
And we'll go next to Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Good morning and thanks for taking the questions as always.
Wanted to just -- sorry if I'm beating the horse here but the CapEx at $1.2 billion if you are going to hold at the same I'm assuming that the top-line is getting better is that you are targeting a rate of sale or a percentage of sales? No.
Just as we don’t know what is going to happen going forward in terms of the capital budget as I've listened to various investors call lately there's something fusion around technology and some have implied that it should come down over time and the point I'm trying to make is I don’t expect that to go down nor do I expect the investment we’re making in our store business to go down over time.
So the only question could be might there be more rapid spending on some growth initiatives and at some point there could be if we see the opportunity but at this point I wouldn’t know what it was or how to quantify it.
And with the risk of you not wanted to reveal all your plans is the $1.2 billion more leaning towards the technology? And then can you give us any color and the composition of the increase and how its go look on forward? Well if you think about the $1.1 billion I mean that encompass the technology that we've been spending that we'll continue to spend.
The extra $100 million roughly is for growth initiatives whether it would be to expand Bluemercury whether it would be the off price pilots that we are talking about and other things like that.
Okay great.
Thank you and best of luck.
Thank you very much.
And from Wells Fargo we'll go next to Paul Lejuez.
Hey thanks Karen.
Can you maybe talk about some of the major buckets of expenses in 2015 where you expect to see leverage versus delverage and specifically if you could touch on your assumption for credit income and retirement expense how those factor in to guidance this year? Yes credit income my suspicion for next year will be flat to down slightly and as often is the case of credit it maybe lumpy because if you think about the roll-out of the chip cards that will come most likely all in the third quarter.
So you may see some odd quarterly progression on the credit line but in total for the year we would expect it to be flat to down slightly.
On the retirement expense after obviously huge reduction this year we do expect it go up modestly in '15 but not by a huge amount.
Healthcare is obviously going to go up significantly which again shouldn’t surprise anybody.
I think those would be major factors as we've talked about headwinds.
And then obviously we continue to invest a lot in information security and then also in these growth initiatives which obviously dumped their sales yet and so we’re investing in those but we are covering with the restructuring that we had announced earlier at this year.
Got you thanks.
And then how should we think about asset dispositions offsetting CapEx in 2015 and beyond and how that might factor into the P&amp;L as well? Well we've had significant asset sale gain for last couple of years as you know and I would expect that to continue as we go forward; I think that's just going to be a piece of the business.
I can’t tell you what the amount is but we are assuming in our guidance that we will continue to monetize stores.
Okay.
Thanks Karen.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
And from Northcoast Research we'll go next to Jeff Stein.
Given the fact that you are planning kind of flattish EBITDA margin can you talk a little bit about kind of what's going on within the P&amp;L kind of outlook for gross margin and SG&amp;A? And also wondering if you have given any thoughts now that you have achieved your target EBITDA margin is there any thought being given to kind of resetting the bar? Oh my goodness let us enjoy it for five minutes.
The really answer is look it could go up a little bit but we are not aiming to go higher.
We believe we've hit the right balance between growth and profitability in achieving this but as we said repeatedly when we originally were thinking about going a lot higher that it was going to impede growth.
So our judgment is staying around 14% is the right answer.
And again it could go up but we are certainly not going to strategize to make that happen.
And taking a look at gross margin this year and SG&amp;A directionally how would you make a deal? Yes we are not going to give a lot of guidance here yet.
We are still formulating the plans but I wouldn’t expect significant change on either line at this point.
Okay.
And final question the women's sportswear business is just kind of been in the doldrums for a number of years now.
Any thoughts in terms of what might possibly reignite a stronger trend there and do you have anything or have you seen anything in your business to give you encouragement on that side? Did you say women's sportswear? Yes.
Well I think used to think about defined by what women are wearing today and actually if you think about that dresses has been extremely strong and continues to be so both their dresses and evening dresses so active at leisure.
So I think we all need to think about women's apparel differently and actually it had a pretty decent year last year when you think about it more broadly.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
You mentioned the impact from the West Coast port issue on 1Q.
Just wonder if you could elaborate a little bit on that and how we should think about the cadence of comps during the year given that impact as well as any timing of marketing shifts or the launch of any particular initiatives.
Yes we are not providing guidance by quarter that way.
So I'm sorry that I really can't help you there.
Clearly sales margin and expense will get impact for some degree in the first quarter because of the port situation but I'm not going to give guidance by quarter.
Understood.
And then as we look at the balance sheet obviously you discussed modestly higher Capex.
Is there any change to the cadence of buyback just how you are thinking about usage of cash as well as your targeted leverage ratios? Any changes there? There is no change in our targeted leverage ratios and the way we use our excess cash as you know in addition to paying the dividend has been to buyback stock with the cash over and above what we are using for Capex.
So while we don’t get guidance for specific buyback number you can't expect this continue to be aggressive in terms of buying back stock.
And just lastly you have mentioned international as one of your initiatives.
Obviously there are some license stores to be opened in the UAE area this year.
Is there a potential for a owned international store just how are you thinking about that particular initiative? Yes.
And at this point we have one Bloomingdale's store in Dubai and we have the Macy's and Bloomingdale's license locations opening in 2018.
So they are not opening this year.
And at this point I'm not really even sure we have a good answer to that yet.
We have been extraordinarily successful with the Dubai partnership.
Our partner there runs a terrific Bloomingdale.
And it's been great not only for sales there and the profit we get from the license agreement but more importantly it has helped our business here in terms of international awareness as we all know the world has become so global.
So we are very excited about that.
But we may very well end up owning our own stores in other parts of the world at some point; we just don't know.
And as I mentioned earlier we are also looking at online and Omnichannel opportunity.
But when you see how well our brands resonate with the international tourist in this country it frankly seems like we should be utilizing that brand awareness and the popularity of the brand in some way.
But we haven't figured out how to do that.
And as always you'd see us do it in a balanced and rational way as we have done in fact with Dubai with Bloomingdale's.
And we'll go next to Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Hey.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning Matt.
So larger picture can you talk about the balance between multiyear growth investments and the earnings growth algorithm here? And more so what's the best way to think about phases of the three-year growth map in 2015 versus maybe 2016 and 2017? Well this maybe over simplifying it.
But I separate sort of the organic base business growth and that hopefully will accelerate in '16 as SVI rolled out to the company as the new organization is better able to focus on Omnichannel growth as well as some of the initiatives we are working on that we talked about -- that I talked about earlier.
The newer ideas that Peter is working on will probably take more time to have an impact on the company.
And so those will less likely have a big impact in '16 or '17.
But again we are building for the future I mean it's really the key here.
But in terms of the organic growth we hope to begin to see impact very quickly.
And obviously comp growth is a very good thing for the bottom line of the company and the cash flow so good that that’s happening soon.
Okay great and then can you just talk about some of the learnings from the single view of inventory test that you did across shoes and dresses and more so kind of the best way to think about the top-line and margin opportunity that we could see now that its rolled out across the chain? Yes I mean a couple of things.
One is that in one of the teams that began analyzing not just the demand in the stores in a given market but they also looked at the .com demand in that market and as a result they're now analyzing with we call it trade area demand and it's allowing them to allocate better the merchandise location to location.
In another test -- in another area we began testing online which gave us very quick results so that we can rollout a new product very quickly and so that’s been helpful.
Also we've been able to negotiate differently as we're working together.
So there is lots of opportunities for growing the business that our teams have found and I think it's just only beginning.
And from UBS we'll go next to Michael Binetti.
Quickly on obviously the Wal-Mart announcement major increases to minimum wages and I know a lot of the positions that you guys have are -- would be at above that rate but as I look around the web I can see some of your entry level positions are in a range of that I would say might have upward pressure on them with a big competitor -- I guess a big retailer like Wal-Mart having making some raises there.
Can you talk to us a little bit about your thoughts on whether that will impact you or maybe how much of the work force could be upward pressure on the wage rate? Yes obviously wage rates are subject we studied quite closely and currently our wage rates are above the state minimum wages and we tend to provide first jobs for many of our associates and we knew if these entry level associates up the wage scale as they can experience.
Having said that we're constantly studying what's happening and by the way its market-by-market and what we need to do to be competitive in terms of our hiring.
So I think this will be an ongoing area of attention.
Okay and I guess just a follow up on the off price initiative you mentioned I find it interesting that consumers obviously showing that they appreciate that channel.
Obviously you have leadership position in your existing business but there is installed competition in that sector.
What do you think about that attracted you guys to that space that could your advantage as you jump into a category with an installed base of competitors and maybe where some of the challenges in that businesses that will be new for your team compared to what they're doing today? Well obviously there is always challenges in starting a new business and particularly one way there is very successful competitors but our team thinks they have the opportunity to compete quite effectively against these players.
Obviously I'm not going to tell you until we started rolling that.
But the team feels very optimistic that we will do well but again this is one of those ends we will let the customer vote and see what she says.
Any perspective on the dividend before you go? No I mean the dividend is an important part of our capital allocation strategy; there is really no change there.
All right thanks.
Our next question comes from Joan Payson with Barclays.
Karen you mentioned tourism issue in the fourth quarter.
Could you share either all portion of sales as that’s related to tourism or how much of an impact that had in the fourth quarter? And then could you also provide some additional detail on the 2015 comp outlook and what's driving the plan for that licensing component? We don’t break out the tourist business or the international business obviously it's more of an impact in places like New York City or Downtown San Francisco but we don’t break it out and total or the impact have had on the quarter.
Obviously we do everything we can to offset it.
And in terms of the comp guidance we've given about the same guidance for the owned and the owned-plus-license.
Well our license businesses are growing faster than the owned so maybe there will be somewhat of a delta.
We don’t expect it to be like it's been in recent years because at this point we're not planning to introduce any new license businesses to our mix.
So obviously if we were to announce a new business that would change our guidances but for now the guidance is about 2% both on a own basis and in own-plus-license but we would expect the own-plus-license to be a little bit higher.
Great thank you.
And from Goldman Sachs we'll go to Stephen Grambling.
Just one follow up on Matt's single source inventory question how is this impacting your plan for the growth rate in inventory and maybe how that will impact turns and is there actually an opportunity for ROIC at this point the whole they even improve as margins are flat and CapEx is up relative to sales? Yes I mean that’s the dream.
And again I think as our buyers and planners are looking at inventory across the direct to customer warehouses and stores.
They're being so smarter about where to put inventory or moving it channel to channel.
So I think it's going to have a big impact on turnover which will be very good down the road.
Now I don’t think that will all be in '15.
As I said this is a transition year but we are optimistic that this could make a difference.
That’s helpful.
And then I guess changing gears if we look at the ecommerce business is there any detail that you can give on how the assortment online has changed over the past few years and how you expected to change going forward perhaps aside from the Bluemercury deal? Well I mean I think we continue and try to offer both at Macy's and Bloomingdale's the best assortment we can.
In some cases we extend what we have in the stores what we call the endless aisle whether it'd be big and tall sizes or small sizes that may not be in every single store so that’s been a big help.
There is some merchandise that we have only online.
But for the most part we're aiming for more congruency between stores and online.
And is there an opportunity to maybe move to more drop shipping? Well we do a fair amount of that today from the vendors.
Remember that if a order is combined it's not only sufficient to ship part from the vendor and part from us but we're always looking for those opportunities.
And again we start with what the customer wants and try to make these decisions in the smartest way we can.
Our next question comes from Bob Drbul with Nomura Securities.
Just a couple of questions.
On I guess overall when you look at the business the health of the consumer in the trends of like opening price points versus some of the collection businesses can you just talk about any of the trends that you're seeing there and any impact on GAF? And then in terms of the drivers to the comp for 2015 like what are the categories that you expect to really lead this year as we look forward? Yes I mean in terms of the categories my suspicion is going to be the categories that we've seen doing well.
We still expect active be very strong and the center core categories most notably handbags cosmetics beauty big ticket.
So I think we're going to see a lot of continuation of what we have been seeing.
Men's has been strong shoes etcetera as we go into '15.
Got it.
And how about just like general comments on the consumer? Sorry about that I forgot didn’t listen your second question.
I think that what's interesting is as we look back on '14 and we look at what we were expecting in terms of the economy.
Our internal projections were right on the money in terms of inflation GDP growth.
Where they missed was GAF growth general merchandise apparel and furniture and we actually were over a point -- we expect the GAF growth to be about a point plus higher last year than it turned out to be and so as we look to '15 and interestingly in the fourth quarter we did see GAF growth beginning to strengthen which could bode quite well for '15 should that happen and in part due to the GAF prices and in part just to the how the momentum has changed.
So that could be helpful as we go into '15.
Got it.
And just give us any flavor on how February as gone for so? We don’t comment on the month I mean obviously the weather has not been helpful but hopefully it will be fine by the time we get through the quarter.
And we'll go next Matt Mckinley with Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
You've a lot of moving pieces with the restructuring versus the investment in 2015 I know that the restructuring that you did this year was effectively reinvested but you expect those benefits to accrue pretty evenly or does that save and spend program you have way more to the back half with the investment that was kind of make the front of it little bit better and the back half a little bit worse? I shouldn’t answer off the cuff but I don’t think so.
I mean I think we'll be making the investment throughout the year maybe a little bit or somewhat.
Again the credit numbers are lumpy so that impact that capital little bit more; so hard to say.
And then it always depends on the timing of the asset sales versus last year.
And then on the new initiatives I know that it is part of the test and learn and process for these new initiatives you're going to have some spending with associated with that.
But as you've done these tests in the past and I assume you do these sorts of things in your stores all the time how long does that typically take to move something from a test phase to more like a primetime? Is that something you've done that takes nine months or is? Testing theory would tell you we should wait a lot longer than we do.
Retailers as you know are by definition impatient so we do tend to react a little quicker than we probably should based on testing theory.
So my suspicion is that this time next year you will hear about some things that we’ve tested this year that rolling out.
For example SVI Single View of inventory was one of those.
We did a little bit in the spring more in the fall and we were just so excited at that we rolled it out to the company now.
So I think you will see moving with some of these things for '16.
And from Stifel we'll go next to Richard Jaffe.
Given the aggressive CapEx and the entering of Phase III could you talk about your internal thought process regarding investment and the return on invested capital both in terms of hurdles you would like to achieve and the timing you provide these new projects to achieve these? No that hasn't changed and honestly I'm not sure I would characterize a $100 million increase in capital as aggressive but we have very disciplined standards in terms of what we expect.
We judge all of these investments on an internal rate of return basis that obviously as to for exceed the cost of capital.
And then secondly we look at a third and the fifth year returned on invested capital to make sure that all of that returned doesn’t happen way out.
You hate to seek in value and when I call that terminal value.
And I think we have a very good process in a disciplined process to look at that.
And that is not going to change.
Very good.
Thank you.
And from Telsey Advisory Group we'll go next to Dana Telsey.
Can you a little bit as you think about the new growth opportunities acquisition new concept international is there preference in terms of capital allocation and how you are thinking of return to the different opportunities? And on the pick order online and store and same day deliver how do you think of same day delivery emerging as we go through 2015? It certainly seems like the speed of getting customer things faster is becoming even more important and popular.
Well I think you are right about the same day deliver particularly in the bigger markets like Manhattan and San Francisco that's where you are going to see that but I do think people want to receive their orders quicker and frankly that's where our store network is been so helpful.
If you need something day and you are in a market it doesn’t have same day deliver yet the online pick-up and store helps with that or even next day.
And by having inventory closer to the customer that's a huge competitive advantage for us in terms of satisfying what the customers are looking for.
So I see that's going to continue to be important and more obviously focused on that.
Your first question in terms of prioritization I would say right now we don’t really have a prioritization we’re looking for the highest returns we can get on the capital that we are going fast and we’re also looking in these new initiatives of how it will impact the base business.
So one of the great things about Bluemercury for example is not is it going to be a great business in and of itself and they will expand and generate a great return on the acquisition.
But also we believe it's going to help the core business both in terms of the shops that will open in some of the Macy's stores as Bluemercury but also frontally just learning about the beauty business will obviously help us as we go forward.
So love the idea of these new growth ideas not only been great in and of themselves but also building off the base business and helping there.
And we'll go next to David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
Thank you Karen.
Just a follow-up on the off price opportunity just to clarify do you envision this new opportunity as more the traditional off price retail channel versus the strategy that Bloomingdale's is pursuing as an outlet strategy? And then what are the core competencies that you think you can leverage from the Macy's organization whether its brand relationships the Macy's name private brand development to bring value to this new initiative? Yes the Macy's will be more likely you are calling traditional obviously in the outlet world we have Bloomingdale's.
So there was no reason to create Macy because we are also expanding the Bloomingdale's outlet concept.
So we didn’t want the competition between the two directly.
And you listed a lot of the reasons why we think we have advantages in the off price business the marketing prowess obviously the way we were in stores the relationship with vendors the private brand and on and on.
And do you think that has an impact on you concern that it might have an impact on your base business obviously the beauty initiatives you can see the synergies how would this initiative help your base business? We think it may just because it may help in the whole new customer to Macy's.
One of things we found with the Bloomingdale's outlet business initially we were nervous about putting one of the Bloomingdale's outlet too close to a Bloomingdale store.
And what we’ve found is that served as an entry point for the customer and instead of taking business away from the base Bloomingdale's store we actually brought new customers who learned in the comfortable with Bloomingdale's outlet experience and then went to the Macy's store.
So it's very profitable we could find that Macy's as well.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
And just a housekeeping item what's the dollar sales of the closed doors that you are closing in 2015 or the volume from 2014? I don't know that off hand and we can comment on that later.
But be careful because the difference between comp and total in '14 is a store closures but it's also the reduction of our private brand sales to [indiscernible] which we can really agreed to not do going forward.
So it's not all the store closures.
And from Credit Suisse we'll go to Michael Exstein.
Couple of things one is where is the Blue Nile acquisition cost is that going to be part of CapEx or is a separate item? It's Bluemercury.
Bluemercury side.
Not Blue Nile.
Look Bluemercury and my suspicion is it will be a separate item.
And that's not part of the $1.2 billion.
And then the other thing it noticed in the press release today is there a bunch of store consolidations where you had multiple units in one mall you consolidated down to either one or two additional units in the mall.
Is that part of an ongoing program? How many store opportunities potentially is there to cut down the numbers of stores you are operating in the same mall? Yes I mean that has been something we've been doing on an ongoing basis where it makes sense.
So that’s not new we've been doing those but yes that is important [indiscernible] seeing what the right square footage in some cases for example at Bridgedale we expanded the base store so we exposed one we actually expanded the other store but it's obviously more efficient as a one store opportunity.
And then do you have any thoughts in terms of the trends in the industry to these headquarter supply stores that some of your competitors have begun to invest heavily in? Well we have them and we've been investing for years I mean that’s not new for us.
We'll go next to Laurent Vasilescu with Macquarie.
I believe in the January press release you've outlined that in 2014 about $1 billion direct to consumer shipments originate directly from stores that’s a pretty big number can you possibly shed some light on how that grew year-over-year and how that portion of business contributes to the company's margins? I don’t know how to answer the margin question we wouldn’t break it up separately but as I said a little while ago its obviously very important to us to be full filling from stores because we can get gods to the customer a lot faster that way and also we don’t have to build as many mega centers.
Now there is obviously a lot of analysis and complicated algorithms to decide the right way of shipping what from what place but store fulfillment is a very important part of our equation going forward and we'll continue to grow aggressively.
And any color on what categories are driving that business? Which store fulfillment? Definitely.
It [indiscernible] means the whole stores whatever we carry.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Alexis Gold with HG Vora.
Hi just a quick follow up just want a clarification actually there is Bloomberg headline out right now that says that you will not be aggressive in stock buybacks and what I heard you say was just repeat the [indiscernible] we don’t give specific buyback number you can expect a [indiscernible] continue… That’s correct yes thank you for asking that as I can see the headlines so yes thank you for clarifying that.
No great thank you very much.
No sorry about that.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
I'll turn the call back to you Ms.
Hoguet.
Well thank you all very much and we appreciate your interest in Macy's.
Obviously don’t hesitate to call Matt Sarah or me if you have further questions or need further clarification on any of this.
And as I said earlier we look forward to updating you on our progress in the upcoming quarters and obviously years ahead and remember change your calendars 9 'O clock going forward for these conference calls.
Thanks very much and have a good day.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Macy's Inc.
First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's conference call scheduled to discuss our first quarter earnings.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately two hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the investor relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed form 10-K.
While we expected both owned and owned plus licensed comp sales growth in the first quarter to be lower than the 2% guidance for the full year our sales performance fell short of what we had expected.
And as a result so did our earnings.
In speaking to our leadership group last week Terry our CEO started his comments by saying "I am disappointed but not discouraged." I think that sums up how we all feel.
And given the confidence we have in our strategies and the fact that most of the factors contributing to our weaker sales are already behind us or will be shortly we are still comfortable with our guidance for the full year.
In addition to our earnings we also announced this morning a 15% increase in our dividend the quarterly dividend moving to $0.36 per share and a $1.5 billion increase in our stock buyback authorization.
This increase gives us a total authorization of approximately $2.1 billion as of the end of the first quarter.
These moves are consistent with our ongoing approach for returning value to our shareholders.
Sales in the quarter were $6.232 billion 0.7% below last year or down 0.1% on a comp owned plus licensed basis.
Total sales are being helped by the acquisition of Bluemercury but that good news is being offset by store closings and lower revenue as we transition away from supplying product to Aeropostale.
As we look at the key factors negatively impacting our sales in the quarter we would highlight the following five.
First international tourism.
With the strong dollar our sales from international tourists are down significantly.
Because of our strong flagship stores in key tourist markets like Manhattan Las Vegas San Francisco and Chicago this has had a big impact on our overall sales.
We estimate that roughly 5% of our annual sales come from the international tourists and our sales from these tourists were down double-digits in the quarter.
We estimate that this negatively impacted our comp growth in the first quarter by about one full percentage point.
And unfortunately this impact will likely stay with us at least through the summer vacation period.
The second factor I would highlight is what we call the learning curve.
As you know we reorganized our merchandising planning and marketing functions at both Macy's and Bloomingdale's at the start of the year to maximize our omnichannel opportunities.
We did this to accelerate growth and we are confident that we made the right changes but there is clearly a learning curve and it is steeper than we had expected.
We are hopeful that as the year progresses this new organization structure will enable our teams to positively impact our results.
This would be consistent with what we experienced in the merchandise categories where we tested this approach last year.
The third factor is the slowdown in the West Coast ports.
This disruption in our receipt flow impacted sales throughout the quarter.
Early in the quarter we felt the absence of fresh fashion on our floors and at the end of the quarter our customers missed the deep markdowns that would've been taken in prior years but hadn't yet been taken this year because the shipments had just arrived.
From a sales perspective this should be behind us.
The fourth factor is growth in general merchandise apparel and furniture GAF sales as we call it which are our lines of business was slower than we had expected during the quarter.
The fifth factor which we've all talked about would be weather.
Clearly this played a role with the unseasonably cold start to the quarter.
And in addition to these five what I would call overall trends we also experienced weak sales in some categories including fashion jewelry and watches tabletop and housewares.
While we were disappointed with our sales there were some successes and strong trends in the quarter that deserve mention.
First and foremost digital growth continued very strong in spite of the factors mentioned above.
Also there were some categories of goods most notably active dresses furniture and mattresses were all very strong.
And also the launch of our Thalia new private brand was a huge success.
We are very excited by the potential for this multi-category new brand.
As you know the brand was designed for and aimed at the Latina customer but it is clearly having resonance with a much broader customer set.
And also geographically the southern markets continue to perform relatively better than the north.
Average unit retail in the quarter was up 1.4% with units per transaction down 1.2% and the number of transactions down just slightly.
The AUR increase was actually a function of mix with our regular-priced business trending better than clearance and also our clearance AURs were higher than a year ago.
Gross margin rate in the quarter was 39% up 10 basis points over last year.
And our merchandise margin was actually up 20 basis points over last year.
We are very pleased with this performance although in part it was favorably impacted by the delay in the receipt of the spring goods from the port slowdown which will negatively impact our second quarter gross margin rate.
Inventory at the end of the quarter was up 2.7% over a year ago which obviously was higher than we had expected due in part again to the port slowdown but also due to the weaker than expected sales.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $2 023 million up 1.2% over last year.
It actually isn't a big increase in dollars but because of the lower sales as a percent of sales expense was up 60 basis points over last year in the quarter.
In spite of the expense benefits from the restructuring that we did at year-end we were not able to flex expense down sufficiently in light of the sales shortfall.
This is largely due to the fact that the first quarter is a low volume quarter and therefore making it a tough quarter to reduce expense.
Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $6 million higher than last year.
Credit income in the quarter contributed $179 million of EBIT or $8 million above a year ago and retirement expense was $21 million $2 million higher than last year.
Operating income in the quarter was $409 million $34 million below a year ago and as a percent of sales 50 basis points below last year.
Interest expense was $95 million $5 million lower than a year ago.
Taxes were $121 million essentially flat to last year in dollars.
However the effective tax rate was 38.5% 380 basis points up from last year's rate.
Last year we did benefit from settlements in the first quarter and for the full year though we still expect the effective tax rate to be approximately 37%.
Net income was $193 million $31 million below a year ago.
Average share count was 346.5 million shares 7% below last year.
And as you saw the earnings per share on a diluted basis was $0.56 down 7% from last year's $0.60.
Cash flow from operating activities and after investing activities was a use of $328 million.
This did include $212 million for the Bluemercury acquisition.
So excluding the acquisition cash flow on this basis was an outflow of $116 million which is approximately $106 million worse than a year ago.
This is due to $31 million lower net income $80 million more inventory net of payables $43 million of higher capital spending a higher 401(k) contribution with our new retirement plan and these increases were partially offset by the release of escrow from some of last year's asset sales.
Also during the quarter we utilized $385 million to buy back 5.9 million shares.
As I said earlier we are disappointed with the quarter but are encouraged by our prospects especially for the back half of the year and beyond.
Our M.O.M.
strategies are still core to what we are doing: My Macy's Omnichannel and Magic Selling.
And we will continue to make progress on all three of these key strategies.
In addition there's some new initiatives about which we're very excited.
The following are seven of these initiatives.
First the acquisition of Bluemercury and its impact on our overall Beauty business.
We believe it will contribute both to our growth and earnings going forward.
We're excited by the prospects for increasing the number of free-standing stores as well as comp growth in the Bluemercury stores e-commerce and the addition of shops within the Macy's stores.
At the start of this year there were 59 Bluemercury locations.
Today there are 63 stores open and we expect to open 14 more by year-end.
We are also developing plans to maximize their e-commerce business utilizing our omnichannel capabilities and we expect to open approximately five shops within Macy's stores over the next nine months with a few opening this fall so we can start testing various concepts.
The Bluemercury approach to the Beauty category is opening our eyes to new strategies and tactics which could actually help us grow our overall beauty business beyond their own operation.
The second key initiative is Plenti.
Our new loyalty program Plenti was launched on May 4.
It is the first U.S.
loyalty coalition involving major U.S.
brands.
It offers consumers everyday opportunity to earn and redeem points with much choice.
Plenti offers opportunities to both incent our current customers to buy more and also to bring new customers into Macy's who enter the Plenti program through the other participating brands.
In the first week we have already enrolled more than 2 million customers at Macy's which is well ahead of expectations.
We are very pleased with early customer response and interest as well as our store team's terrific execution.
The third initiative I'd highlight is that we are developing strategies to focus on our top 150 doors and especially what we call our 30 platinum doors – our very best.
These 150 doors and the 30 were selected based on numerous factors including the recent sales growth external economic factors in their markets customer service scores in these stores as well as their profitability.
We believe there is opportunity to elevate these stores further and accelerate their growth and hopefully we will begin to see the benefit this fall particularly in the fourth quarter.
The fourth key initiative is what we call All Things Wedding.
Macy's and Bloomingdale's have always been known for our gift registries but the truth is we have an enormous opportunity to not only improve our wedding gift registry business but also to strengthen pull together and market our complete offerings throughout our stores ranging from engagement rings to bridesmaid dresses to tuxedos to cosmetics et cetera et cetera.
Frankly this initiative impacts almost every category in the store.
And we believe it offers a great way to build ongoing loyalty with millennial customers.
The fifth initiative is that we are focusing on some key categories where we see outside growth opportunities.
A few of these would include active dresses and jewelry.
Our efforts for these categories vary but they all include not only having the right product but also having the right selling models as well as marketing strategies.
The sixth key initiative which you heard a lot about last week is Macy's Backstage.
We don't have anything new to report since the press release but as you might imagine we're all very excited about the potential for this new initiative.
We believe that these stores will help us increase our share of wallet with existing Macy's customers as well as bring new faces into Macy's stores.
And the last initiative is international.
There are numerous third parties approaching us about potential partnerships overseas but we aren't far enough along in our work to discuss these yet.
We are excited as you might imagine to further build on the strength of our Macy's and Bloomingdale's brands in other key countries and markets.
There is a lot going on and our talented dedicated and I might add competitive organization is working very hard to accelerate our sales growth while maintaining our profitability.
As I said earlier we still believe the right expectation for 2015 is approximately 2% owned plus licensed comp sales growth and approximately 1% total sales growth.
But it will be more back-end loaded than we initially expected.
And while we expect the second quarter comp owned plus licensed sales growth to be positive we do not expect it to reach the 2% annual guidance.
In terms of earnings we are still expecting $4.70 to $4.80 per share in annual earnings on a diluted basis.
But in the second quarter we are expecting our earnings per share to be below last year.
One of the hallmarks of Macy's Inc.
in recent years has been our ability to overcome obstacles and succeed despite a variety of challenges and macroeconomic factors.
In a lot of ways we did have the deck stacked against us in the first quarter.
These included the external factors I mentioned such as weather port bottlenecks the value of the dollar and a sawtooth economy.
There were also internal factors such as the impact of our omnichannel reorganization which we believe caused some inadvertent but short-term disruption.
While we are disappointed in our first quarter results we are not discouraged.
We see some of the first quarter obstacles disappearing and some of our new initiatives beginning to gain traction.
Our style is not to make excuses but to take action.
With today's consumer having so many choices for shopping and buying both Macy's and Bloomingdale's continue to put in place new growth strategies on every front both organically and in pursuit of bold new ideas.
Not everything we are doing will pan out nor should it but we know the value of testing learning and taking successful ideas to scale very quickly.
We remain fully committed to the new stage of growth we introduced to you in February.
We expect to continue to grow comp sales and earnings per share in the full year 2015 consistent with our guidance and we are more excited than ever about the new ideas that will unfold in the years ahead.
Let's now open the floor for your questions.
Thank you.
.
We'll go first to Charles Grom from Sterne Agee.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning Karen.
Just on the guidance of $4.70 to $4.80 any meaningful changes to the six or seven factors that you outlined in your February call both on the gross line or SG&amp;A line buybacks et cetera? No I don't think so.
I just think again the timing by quarter will vary.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then in order to get to that 2% comp hurdle for the year trends need to get as you mentioned a lot better particularly against tougher compares in the second and fourth quarter.
Could you just walk us through a couple of the drivers that make you comfortable hitting that number particularly if the second quarter is expected to be sub 2% but a little bit above zero? Yeah.
I mean I think if you think about the first quarter the weather is obviously better and the port slowdown will be behind us.
The hope is that the disruption from the new omnichannel restructure is lessening as we get into the second quarter.
What will continue with us is likely the impact of the strong dollar on the international tourists.
Hopefully as we get through fall that will begin to improve.
But I think what makes me most excited about the fall is when we look back at the areas that we tested last year with the single view of inventory and viewing omnichannel across the organization.
By the fall of last year we began to see big improvement and I think the same thing should happen this year.
And so I'm actually quite optimistic about that as we get into the fall season.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just last question.
Obviously gross margin is much better than you would expect on that type of comp.
Any thoughts on the promotional backdrop today? Are you seeing any unusual activity from your peers? Well I mean yeah obviously we are particularly in the upscale world.
But remember also I said that the second quarter gross margin is going to have the impact of some of the delay of the markdowns on the goods that were received late in the first quarter.
So while we're very pleased with the first quarter the second quarter may not be as good and the two will equalize together.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> And that's a major factor on why you expect earnings to be down a little bit relative to last year? Yes.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
All right thanks Karen.
Good luck.
Thanks Chuck.
We'll go next to Oliver Chen from Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi thanks.
Thanks Karen.
The Plenti loyalty program sounds pretty awesome in terms of the potential here.
Do you expect this to have a back-half impact in terms of the timing at which this may occur? And given that you are mildly more inventoried than you'd like what gave you the confidence to kind of maintain your full-year outlook as you look towards the back half? Well remember the second quarter gross margin I said will be pressured and part of that is a result of the inventory being high at the end of the first quarter.
But that will be behind us as we go to the fall season.
In terms of Plenti people here are betting on when we're going to see the impact.
I think most of the knowledgeable people think it's likely to be spring 2016 because it will take customers time to start building points and really understanding the strength of the program.
Frankly that would be consistent with what we saw with Bloomingdale's when we rolled out the Loyallist program.
It does take customers a while to understand these new programs but hopefully it will help the back half.
But we're not counting on that.
Okay Karen and our final question is on the top 150 doors.
It sounds like a shrewd prioritization.
What's the nature of the lower hanging fruit in terms of the changes that you envision whether it be different allocation of floor space or selling techniques? Just more color there would be appreciated.
Yeah I mean it's really we're looking at the story holistically.
So it will be some shift of space.
There will be some new brands brought in.
It will be places where we can elevate the assortment consistent with the customers in those stores.
But if you think about it the top malls in the country are doing extraordinarily well as are we but we think we can actually push that growth farther.
Okay.
And we do believe your learning curve program makes sense in terms of how you characterize that.
As we do look forward which aspects of that are the most near term in terms of the improvement opportunity as your organization gets more integrated? I think the key issue will be understanding inventory allocation and how to think about putting inventory in stores versus warehouses.
And we're trying hard to make sure that our best-selling styles are everywhere and an increasing the congruency.
And I'm trying not to get into technical retail speak but it will help we think enormously to have inventory in the right places.
And I think it will take a few months for that new organization to figure out how to do this.
But I think the sales opportunity is tremendous.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Thanks Oliver.
We'll go next to Kimberly Greenberger of Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thank you so much Karen.
Karen the question we're getting most often from investors here over the first three months of the year is around your real estate strategy.
And I'm wondering if you can just articulate how you're thinking about Macy's real estate as an asset.
Are you at this point contemplating any sort of strategy around the value of your real estate and if not is there something that may happen over time that could cause you to change your mind? Well when it comes to real estate the first thing I would say is this is far more complicated than what most people think.
And some of the estimates of value in our real estate I think have been done overly simplistically.
Having said that as you might imagine we are studying closely with our key banking partners all the various transactions that have happened lately and all the possible strategies the pros the cons of how you would do it et cetera et cetera to see what's right for us.
Our objective is always to maximize value.
And up until now we haven't seen an opportunity that made sense in terms of a global strategy.
Now keep in mind over the last couple of years you have seen us monetize some of our real estate frankly not with our worst-performing stores.
So examples would be last year Sunnyvale and Cupertino in Northern California where we did take advantage of a disconnect between the value of real estate and the value of the retail entity.
And we are continuing to study many opportunities like that within the portfolio.
So I would say obviously we're studying everything and if something would make sense we obviously would do it.
So that's the only way to answer it Kimberly.
But we are staying close to the subject because like you we're getting the question also.
Great.
Thank you so much Karen.
We'll go next to Paul Trussell of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Karen.
The breakdown of the comp you mentioned that AUR was up a bit UPT down.
Just wondering how do you expect that to trend as we move forward particularly in the second quarter? And then how you kind of make up the composition of the 2% full-year comp? As I have said repeatedly that is an impossible number to forecast.
There are so many factors that go into it so I don't know how to begin to answer that question.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then when we think about the smaller store concepts both the Macy's Backstage as well as Bluemercury can you help us out with any thoughts around store count opportunity longer term or productivity and profitability metrics? Well if you look at Bluemercury obviously if you look at Sephora or ULTA we're currently sitting at 63 stores.
You can see the enormous opportunity in free-standing stores.
So I can't give you a specific number but it's enormous.
Also obviously the opportunity to go in the best Macy's stores is huge as well.
And you add on e-commerce growth; we're very encouraged by that but I can't give you any specific numbers.
As to Backstage again we're just testing this fall.
If it works well again the opportunity is huge but that one we have to pilot it before I could begin to give you any insight as to what that strategy may mean.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Hey Karen.
So from a top-line standpoint if you parsed out tourism and some of the weather impact what categories do you think account for the trajectory change that we've seen from the 3 to 5 comps we were running from 2010 to 2012 versus today's reduced level? I don't think it's a category change.
I think it's sort of the overall level.
I mean there's ups and downs within categories but there really hasn't been any dramatic shift broadly based.
Okay.
And then even to break that down a little further I mean what do you think of the health of Center Core? Any changes? I know you mentioned watches and some shifts maybe in jewelry but any slowing or shifting of drivers worth noting? It's hard to know right now.
Obviously I called out the fashion jewelry and watch business being slow and that's a part of Center Core.
We were up against some major handbag promotions in the first quarter so it's kind of hard to read until we get through that what's happening there.
But that growth continues to be very strong absent the impact of that promotion.
Shoes has done well Beauty is doing quite well fragrances in particular is very strong.
So hopefully there's no major change in Center Core as the total.
And again we're looking for ways of offsetting that jewelry/watch slowdown.
That would be the only call out.
But then usually other opportunities pop.
Okay great.
Best of luck.
We'll go next to Matt McGinley from Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
My first question is on the free cash flow generation.
The first quarter is always a little bit choppy in terms of how you generate cash but this quarter had a bigger investment in inventory as it related to the port issues.
So my question is does that working capital investment normalize over the year or should we expect that overall it would be an inventory investment over the course of the year? Yeah.
So it will normalize.
I mean as I said the inventory was a little high at the end of the first quarter but that will normalize.
Great.
My second question is a follow-up on the tourism spending.
I'm thinking about this from a historical standpoint.
How does that tourism spending typically snap back after a weak period in the past? Is that driver mostly FX or do the stores that are more tourist-dependent tend to recover as you get into a more tourist heavy season like the summer? I'll be honest I have not looked at that.
I can't remember a time where it feels as bad in those stores but I may be wrong and it's a good suggestion.
We'll do that.
Okay thank you.
So I'll let you know after we've done it.
Yeah I can't remember it and maybe I should – I'm not sure.
Let me look at it and we'll let you know.
Sounds good.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Paul Swinand of Morningstar Inc.
Good morning.
Just wanted to maybe follow up on Paul's question about the units per transaction.
Is it that people are being more careful? Is there any read-through into the environment or maybe is it just the tourism effect or the port squeeze effect having fewer goods available or people that aren't sort of stocking up? Is there any way you can comment on that color? Well as I said when you look at the AUR part of it was mix and the regular price was doing better.
And we typically sell fewer units per transaction with regular price.
So I have a feeling the first quarter may be distorted because of the port situation and we ought to wait and see the second quarter before we make too much of it.
Got it.
So regular price up but maybe just the takeout of the markdowns lowered the units per transaction? That's correct.
Okay.
If we know – If we know it positively impacted the AUR so it would have made sense that it would do the opposite on the UPT.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then just wanted to drill down a little bit also in the – again a follow up on the other question but with watches and Center Core.
Is it tough comparisons from individual brands and promotions from brands or is it pretty widespread across the different brands being down in any color on why you think that might be besides the promotions? I have not looked at it brand by brand so I'm not sure how to answer that.
Sorry.
Okay.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Todd Duvick of Wells Fargo.
Hi Karen.
Hi.
My question pertains to share repurchase expectations.
The past couple of years you've managed your balance sheet to a lease adjusted leverage range of 2.4 times to 2.7 times.
And I calculate you are slightly below that range right now.
So as you consider the pace of share buybacks going forward should we expect that pace to be governed by the upper end of your leverage range? Yeah I mean we – yes I think is the easy answer.
We aim for the 2.4 times to 2.7 times so yes.
Okay.
Okay.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Jeff Stein of Northcoast Research.
Good morning Karen.
A couple of questions.
Besides the top-line acceleration that you are hoping for in the back half of the year are you assuming any incremental expense cuts to stay in that $4.70 to $4.80 guidance range you've provided? No.
I mean we always are doing what I would call expense management cuts but nothing significant.
Okay.
And with respect to the port delays would you say that the vast majority of that is now behind us? And then taking a look at the delayed deliveries I think you mentioned in your fourth-quarter call that something on the order of 12% of your receipts were running late.
Was it primarily private-label brands or nationally branded goods? Because I presume that national brands coming in late you might be able to return some of that merchandise.
So how should we think about the mix of the merchandise that was delayed? I don't know the specific percentage breakdown but yes a lot of it was private brands but certainly not all.
Okay.
And then final question on the new loyalty program have you done any research to understand how many of those sign-ups are already existing Macy's credit cardholders or customers? We are doing that and I don't know the answer.
And after one week it would be too early to tell you anyway.
But obviously we're tracking that quite closely.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Bob Drbul of Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi Karen.
Good morning.
Hi Bob.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Just had a couple questions.
The first one is on the inventory situation are there areas in the store and throughout the business that are higher than others? And sort of how aggressive will you be in terms of getting it? And when you think about it on a monthly basis do you think it will be throughout the whole quarter? Do you think you'll get it cleared up in June into July? Just give us an idea of how aggressive you...? Yeah I mean obviously there are pockets where inventory is higher than others based on the port situation and also based on weakness in sales.
And so we have plans to make sure that we enter the third quarter fresh and we don't take forward any of this inventory.
And again remember the comp expectations is 2 times.
So while the inventory is higher than we expected it's not that high.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then did you quantify any impacts on the tourism piece? I guess just a couple questions.
Can you give us just updated thoughts on how much of your business is susceptible to the tourism trends and comp trends in tourism-affected markets versus ones that are less affected by the tourism? Overall it's about 5% of our sales we think comes from the international tourist.
And so as I said we think it hurt our comps in the first quarter by a full percent.
Inc.</span></strong> And is that the expectation that you are holding in the full-year comp plan that you reiterated this morning? No.
I mean second quarter yes but as we go through the fall we're hoping to begin to mitigate that somewhat.
And as we get to the fourth quarter it begins to year-round also.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just a last question is could you give us any updated thoughts on acquisitions whether – do you think that the off-price piece is a potential area for acquisition? Or do you fully expect to do it sort of on a one-by-one store basis? We always look at buy versus build alternatives and we'll continue to do so.
In that case we've got to test it and see what we think and decide assuming the success is successful what's the right way of scaling it quickly? And we'll look at anything.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much Karen.
Thanks Bob.
We'll go next to Stephen Grambling of Goldman Sachs.
Hi Karen.
Good morning.
A couple of follow-ups actually on both those questions.
But I guess the first would be how does the tourist spend maybe vary by category? Did that drive any changes in the quarter among the strong and weak categories? And on a related note how did the impact from tourism change relative to the fourth quarter? The second question is quite a bit.
It almost doubled.
So that was a big step-up in terms of the impact.
By category it's relatively spread through the store.
I haven't really gone through and looked at it category by category.
The merchants are doing that but I don't know the answer to that.
Okay.
And then I guess going back to the Backstage and off-price and I realize that it is still early but you did mention that scaling is a key competency.
So can you talk about how maybe the off-price supply chain differs from your existing and is there any kind of investment that is already embedded in your plan as it relates to the supply chain for off-price? All that's in our plan right now is the test and if it works we'll obviously go from there.
We've estimated what we think it would cost to build it out to scale which is why we got so excited about testing it.
But until we test it and know I think it's premature to talk about that.
Okay.
And the last one if I can squeeze it in would just be on the non-top 150 stores I mean I guess what is the plan there? How has that changed as you're now reemphasizing the top 150? Thank you.
We continue to focus on each and every store with a strategy that works in its local market and that's appropriate for it.
Obviously the elevation of assortments doesn't work in all markets.
So we are focusing on those stores that have the greatest opportunity as you might imagine.
But through My Macy's we've got strategies for each and every door.
Thanks so much.
We'll go next to Dana Telsey of Telsey Advisory Group.
Hi Karen how are you? Fine how are you Dana? Good.
Can you talk a little bit about marketing plans and how you see them for the remainder of the year? Is it skewed to the second half and what percentage of sales done on proprietary cards? Any change there? And just two last things in Backstage are there any brands that are in Macy's stores that you won't sale in Backstage and how is single view of inventory progressing? Thank you.
Okay that was too many for me to remember.
Let me try one by one.
If I miss one tell me.
Credit penetration was 44.9% in the quarter up 20 basis points.
So that is obviously good news.
In terms of our marketing spend obviously with the omnichannel organization we're thinking differently about how we spend digitally versus the traditional media.
But overall I don't see any major change as we go through the remainder of the year.
In terms of Backstage the question was are there vendors we wouldn't sell there? Yes that are in full line that won't be in Backstage.
Oh I'm sure there will be.
And I suspect there'll be vendors that aren't in full line that will be in Backstage; so I think it will go both ways.
Okay.
And then single view of inventory how is that doing? Well that's what I'm most excited about as we go to the fall season.
And I do think it has caused some disruption in the beginning of the year as the new organization figured this out and figured out where to put inventory.
I think it absolutely is going to give us a huge sales opportunity as we go forward.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow up on Backstage.
As you're testing it how are you thinking about how much clearance you'll ship to the off-price channel versus maintaining the traffic flow that you get from clearance in your flagship stores? Yeah I mean it's a very good question.
And obviously we're going to test different approaches.
Interestingly if you think about certainly the 30 platinum doors it's very possible that clearance is taking up too much space and it would be better cleared so that we could bring in fresh more newness into the stores.
So that may be where we take more of the clearance out than other stores that we think are more dependent on that traffic.
So Peter and Vanessa and the team are going to test lots of things and we'll learn more.
But my suspicion is to your point we will take varying amounts of clearance out of different stores.
And also remember we're not taking goods out until they are well down the markdown cycle.
So it's not the early markdowns that will be taken out for off-price.
Right.
And what are you hearing from your vendors about AURs in the second half? Cotton prices are obviously down.
There are some offsets.
Is there any change in strategy that you hear coming through the pipeline? I have not heard of any.
Thank you.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Michael Exstein of Credit Suisse.
Thank you very much Karen.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Number one what sort of costs associated by the Bluemercury rollout and the off-price rollout are incorporated in the estimates that you talked about today? Number one.
Number two in spite of the port issues you actually were able to lever your payables pretty nicely.
I am just wondering was there some sort of change going on there because one would've thought that the payables may have backed up a little bit from that.
Let me answer that one before I forget.
That one's just timing Michael.
Okay.
So I don't think there's anything different there.
Okay.
And then how about the cost associated with the rollout of off-price and stuff like that? Yeah I mean that's all in the numbers.
And as we've discussed we're offsetting that as we aim to maintain the 14% EBITDA rate.
For this year we would expect Bluemercury to sort of be breakeven on the EPS line.
Okay.
But obviously next year we hope that it will be additive.
And obviously there are costs included in the SG&amp;A particularly as we go through the year associated with Backstage and also Bluemercury.
And then finally in terms of the Plenti loyalty program or rewards program is that on top of the normal Macy's loyalty program so that you'll be layering loyalty programs on top of each other? No.
The Star Rewards program will be merged into Plenti.
So we will still offer a lot of the coupons that we do for our credit card customers but the actual rewards that we gave roughly 1% is now being replaced by Plenti.
Okay great.
Thanks for the clarification.
Good luck.
Thanks Michael.
We'll go next to David Glick of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes good morning.
Thank you Karen.
Just two quick questions.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just wondered in the first quarter whether there were any asset sales that impacted SG&amp;A? I do see in other net line in the cash flows from investing activities.
And then secondly I was just curious what that handbag promotion was last year that you did not repeat that would've impacted the business.
Thanks.
That I'm not going to comment on.
But your first question is there were asset sales but nothing material.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Was that $70 million the release of reserves that you referred to earlier in the call? Yes.
Yeah it was less than that but yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Good luck.
Thanks David.
We'll go next to Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning and thank you Karen for taking the question.
I was just hoping you could provide a little bit of color around how you would think about your current credit rating as you're evaluating some of these real estate options.
You've seen some cushion build with a couple of the rating agencies.
Would you look to maintain current ratings at least a mid-BBB or is it sort of just looking at staying investment grade overall? Thank you.
We tend to focus on ratios rather than ratings because I've learned over the years I can't control ratings but ratios I have more control over.
So to the question asked earlier the 2.4 times to 2.7 times feels like the right leverage ratio to be in.
And we remain committed to that range.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you so much.
We'll go next to Joan Payson of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit about how much of the $140 million of restructuring savings for this year fell into the first quarter if that remains relatively consistent through the rest of the year and then also could we expect a similar level of asset sales for the full year this year that we saw last year? The first question is it would be a little less than the first quarter and then relatively evenly Q2 Q3 and Q4 on the $140 million.
In terms of asset sales we're still working on some deals but that would be our hope and expectation.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Karen.
At this time we have no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to you.
Great.
Well thanks everybody for your interest and your support.
And obviously if you have further questions you can call me Matt Sarah Ryan (51:20) whomever and we'll do our best to try to get you the answers.
Again thanks.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's Incorporated Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's conference call scheduled to discuss our second quarter earnings.
I am Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately two hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed form 10-K and other SEC filings.
Today we announced second quarter earnings as well as two additional initiatives that should help to enhance shareholder value and build for our future.
On this morning's call I will cover three topics starting obviously with second quarter earnings then the other two announcements made this morning and conclude with our outlook for the remainder of the year.
I will then open the call as always for your questions.
So let's get started.
In the second quarter we reported earnings per share on a diluted basis of $0.64 which is 20% below last year.
While we had expected earnings to be below last year in the second quarter this was below what we had expected.
Our performance in the first half of the year was not as strong as we had hoped but we are cautiously optimistic about our ability to improve the sales trend in the fall season.
We'll talk about that later in the call but know that we remain confident in our strategies and in our team's ability to execute them.
Total sales in the second quarter were $6.1 billion down 2.6% versus last year.
On a comp owned plus license basis sales were down 1.5%.
Remember that last year comp sales on an owned plus licensed basis were up 4% in the second quarter.
So on a two-year basis comp sales increased 1.2% per year in the second quarter which is stronger than the first quarter decline of 0.4% per year on the same basis.
We would highlight the following four major factors in no particular order that contributed to our sales weakness in the quarter.
Two of these are the same as we mentioned last quarter.
The first is our decision to no repeat a friend and family event that we had last year in the second quarter.
We had hoped that we would be able to preserve the sales with other promotional events but that turned out not to be the case.
Two continued weakness in the international tourist business.
We estimate this hurt comp growth by approximately 1% as it did in the first quarter.
Three slower growth in some key center core categories.
These businesses are still growing well above the total company but just not at the same level as they had been growing.
And four the continued challenges with the consumer.
The overall growth in the economy is modest at best and we are seeing customers gravitating to restaurants recreational services healthcare and electronics rather than to traditional general merchandize apparel and furnishing category.
Last quarter we also spoke about the West Coast ports which had a lingering albeit smaller effect in the second quarter as we predicted.
The weather effect in the first quarter no longer impacted sales in the second quarter.
We also had mentioned last quarter that there was a steeper than expected learning curve as our new Omni channel merchandizing planning and marketing teams learn how to maximize business in their new roles.
This is still a factor but doesn’t rise to the same level as it did when the new organization launched in the first quarter.
Interestingly two of our best performing categories in the quarter were in the center core areas; handbags and fragrances.
We also had strong sales performance in active furniture and mattresses.
The weaker categories included fashion jewelry and watches petites and large size women's apparel men's tailored clothing house wares and table top.
Our Omni channel strategies are working well as customers increasingly shop and buy across multiple channels.
We believe that our new organization structure is helping to accelerate digital growth which continued to be very strong in the quarter.
Geographically we continue to see relative strength in the Southern markets but the best performance came this quarter from the entire West Coast and our worst performance was in our major tourist doors and markets.
In the second quarter average unit retail was down 1.3%.
The number of transactions was down slightly in the quarter and units per transaction up slightly.
The gross margin rate in the quarter was 40.9% down 50 basis points from last year.
We told you at the end of the first quarter that gross margin rate would be below last year due to the impact of the delayed receipts from the port slow down earlier in the year.
However with the weaker sales we took additional markdowns needed to keep our inventory fresh and as a result the gross margin rate was lower than we had expected.
Remember though the margin rate was up versus last year in the first quarter.
So for the spring season or the first half of the year as a whole the gross margin rate was down 30 basis points.
Inventory at the end of the quarter was up 3.8% or a 2.9% increase on a comp basis.
This is higher than one would expect in part because we brought in merchandize earlier than last year to get better set for back-to-school which by the way has started off well.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $2 058 million up 1.7% over last year which is similar to the increase in the first quarter and as a percent of sales it was 33.8% a 150 basis points above last year.
The biggest increases in expense relative to last year related to our growth investments.
Our Omni channel strategies a full quarter of Bluemercury expense and the start-up expense associated with the back stage pilot.
In addition we were negatively impacted in the quarter by higher medical benefit expense.
Depreciation and amortization was $261 million which is $7 million higher than last year.
These increases were offset in large part by the cost reduction resulting from the yearend Omni channel restructuring as well as higher credit income.
In the second quarter credit income was $195 million which is $12 million above last year.
Penetration or usage of our proprietary credit card in the quarter was 47.8% up 190 basis points over last year.
This great result was in large part due to the launch of our new Plenti Loyalty Program and also the impact of the lower international tourist business.
Operating income in the quarter was $436 million down 24% from last year.
Interest expense was $93 million tax expense $126 million with a 36.7% effective tax rate.
Net income in the second quarter was $217 million average share count on a diluted basis was 341 million shares which is 6.7% below a year ago and as I said earlier earnings per share on a diluted basis was $0.64 20% below last year.
Cash flow from operating activities was $398 million $338 million below last year due primarily to a $106 million of lower net income and $154 million from higher inventory net of payable.
Net cash in investing activities was about the same as last year apart from this year’s acquisition of Bluemercury and year-to-date we utilized $937 million to purchase 13.9 million shares of our stock.
In addition to the second quarter earnings we also made two announcements this morning.
The first relates to our entry to China through the formation of Macy's China Limited a joint venture with Fung Retailing Ltd.
The joint venture will be based in Hong Kong and is 65% owned by us and 35% by Fung Retailing.
This venture will start with an eCommerce pilot initiative on Tmall Global later this fall.
Macy’s China Limited will be led by Kent Anderson a longstanding Macy’s Executive who was the Founder and long time President of Macy’s.com.
No physical stores are planned for China at this time but maybe considered in the future based on our experience in eCommerce.
Together with Fung Retailing we're expected to invest approximately $25 million in these operations over the next 18 months and our share will obviously be 65% of that.
The entry is expected to have an immaterial impact on our earnings this year and in 2016 we expect the joint venture to generate sales of approximately $50 million.
We're very excited to be working with such a great partner to being to build a business in one of the world’s largest and fastest growing consumer marketplaces.
Our game plan is to start small and use a test and learn approach as we move forward.
We also believe that by increasing the presence of Macy’s in China we will actually help our business here as well both with the Chinese tourists as well as Chinese residents.
We also announced this morning a transaction that takes advantage of the value inherent in our Brooklyn real estate.
As you know our strategy has been to maintain a mix of both owned and leased stores and this approach has worked extremely well for us keeping our cost low and providing us with the flexibility to adapt to changing economic conditions.
As part of this strategy we continuously review our portfolio and take action where we see opportunity to enhance value.
In this case we were able to monetize part of what we owned in Brooklyn and frankly weren’t using productively while creating what we expect to be a stronger more productive retail store in this terrific market.
We have been studying our options for this location as well as for other properties for quite some time.
As you read Tishman Speyer is purchasing our Brooklyn parking garage facility as well as the top five floors and air rights above the existing Macy store for approximately $170 million in cash.
Tishman Speyer will convert the space into first class office space.
They will contribute an additional $100 million that will be used toward the total rebuild and remodel of our Macy store.
This transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter and is expected to result in a gain of approximately $250 million.
This transaction had not been assumed when we provided earnings guidance at the start of the year.
The good news is that in addition to monetizing the space that was unproductive we're going to be able to reinvent the store to create a true fashion hub combining the best of Macy's with Brooklyn's local flavor.
We see enormous opportunity to better serve the Brooklyn customer.
We currently operate 378 000 square feet on eight floors in this store and in the future we will be operate more productively in 310 000 square feet on five floors.
The remodel is expected to start in the spring of 2016 and be completed by the fall of 2018 and the good news is that the store will remain open through this period.
While on this subject of real estate I want to take a moment to touch on the work we're doing on a real estate portfolio.
We have regularly considered ways to realize the value of our own real estate over the years but each time we did not see enough meaningful economic benefit to justify the added cost and lower flexibility that would come from doing so.
With that said though real estate values clearly are nearing all time highs and so over the past few months we have been intensely studying this subject again.
We have brought on specialized real estate advisors as well as financial legal and tax advisors to look at a wide range of alternatives from financing to structural that have the potential to create value.
As part of this thorough effort we are working through a number of very complex issues relating to everything from property type to taxes to debt covenants.
It is too early to tell what the results of this will be as the work is still underway but we plan to come back to you as soon as we complete this work.
Let's now move on and talk about the back half of the year and some of the good things happening that should help accelerate our sales growth profitably.
Last quarter I spoke about our mom's strategy still being core to what we're doing.
My Macy's Omni channel and magic selling that is still the case and last quarter we highlighted seven new initiatives about which we are still excited.
Let me just quickly give you an update on each of these.
One was Bluemercury.
There are now 66 stores open and we expect to have another 10 by yearend.
We're working hard to improve the digital experience and strengthen the Omni channel capabilities and we're also opening this fall four Bluemercury stores within Macy stores including one on our Union Square Store in San Francisco.
Two Plenti has launched very successfully.
Macy's now has over seven million customers enrolled and we expect to generate incremental sales from these customers as well as new customers who enrolled in this program through other companies as points begin to accumulate and customers understand the value inherent in this loyalty program.
Three the execution of our top door strategy continues and we said last quarter we hope to see results beginning this fall.
This will include enhanced product offering upgraded shopping environment incremental special events and additional sales associates with greater product knowledge.
The fourth initiative we mentioned last quarter as All Things Wedding.
Since the last conference call we announced our partnership with Men's Warehouse to open licensed tuxedo rental shops within 300 Macy stores with the first open opening this fall.
This is an important capability added to what we offer for these customers.
The fifth was outsized growth categories.
One new initiative here is a pilot of a new strategy for jewelry and watches that includes an intensified selling effort elevated product improved physical environment and added marketing.
We also are continuing to drive growth in the categories such as active dresses and other parts of center core Six was Backstage our off-price pilot.
We’re getting ready for a grand opening in the first stores in a few weeks.
We are very excited about how these stores are shaping up.
And seven was International and obviously our China announcement that I just discussed is the big news in this arena.
So as you can see we are making progress in all of these fronts and staying focused on what we believe will drive our business.
Our expectation for fall sales is now a 1% comp growth on an owned plus license basis with own comp about 50 basis points lower.
Total sales are expected to be flattish versus last year.
Total sales are growing slower than comp because of a significant reduction in the sales of private label goods to third parties.
We’re opening two new full line stores in the fall a Bloomingdale's and Honolulu and a second Macy store in Puerto Rico.
Plus we're opening the ten Bluemercury locations six Macy’s back stage off price stores and a very exciting new Bloomingdale’s outlet store on the upper Westside of Manhattan.
Now as you model sale by quarter I should note that we're expecting sales growth to be stronger in the fourth quarter than in the third as we begin to year around on the weakness in the international tourist sales.
The gross margin rate is expected to be flattish in the back half of the year and SG&amp;A dollars are expected to be below last year as a result of the large gain expected from the Brooklyn transaction.
With that Brooklyn SG&amp;A is expected to be in the range of last year.
And as you model the quarters know that the third quarter SG&amp;A will be negatively impacted by the timing of asset sales this year relative to last year and additionally the third quarter expense will be negatively impacted by a slight reduction in credit income in the quarter due to the cost associated with the EMV card reissue for our cobranded cards.
So because of the sales assumption and the SG&amp;A comparisons to last year operating income is assumed to be below last year in the third quarter but in the fourth quarter operating income is expected to be above last year without the benefit of the Brooklyn gain and obviously with the Brooklyn gain higher still.
Interest expense is expected to be $80 million in the third quarter lower than what we have been running year-to-date due to a gain associated with the debt we're calling at par next week.
But in the fourth quarter interest expense is assumed to be back at the levels experienced in the first two quarters of the year.
In the third quarter the tax rate is expected to be higher than last year because last year's rate benefited from one-time tax settlements that happened during the quarter and was only 33%.
We are still expecting our annual effective tax rate to be approximately 37%.
So with these assumptions for the fall the annual earnings per share on a diluted basis is expected to be 470 to 480 including the gain on the Brooklyn transaction.
Now the good news as we head into the third quarter is that there are many things working in our business and we are following through on the plans we previously announced to initiate and develop growth avenues for the future both organic and with new businesses.
The overall economy didn’t do us any favors in the first half of the year.
We look forward to the effects of the stronger dollar beginning to year around in the fourth quarter and to consumers replenishing their closets as their wardrobes require updating heading into the fall and holidays.
At a Management meeting two weeks ago we updated each other on the many items on our to-do list to generate sales growth from existing operations in the back half of the year.
Some of them are mentioned earlier in this call today.
As is often the case success isn’t going to come from a big bang but from a disciplined execution of strategic and well planned ideas that genuinely serve the emerging needs of our consumers.
Layer on top of that the upcoming opening of Macy’s Backstage stores our eCommerce launch in China and the growing presence of Bluemercury.
The picture you see is of a strong and progressive retailer that is Omnichannel in nature and intent on continuing our success.
Make no mistake about that the fact that we're focused on growing and driving this business and in creating shareholder value on all fronts.
We’ve already returned more than $7 billion to shareholders over the past four years in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
We have consistently outperformed the market in most of our major competitors on both the top and bottom lines.
We're committed to maintaining the foundation of innovation and financial strength that have brought us this far.
We continue to build our business in new and exciting directions and we appreciate your interest and support going forward.
So let’s move on now to whatever questions you may have.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].And we’ll take our first question from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
As you consider real estate monetization above and beyond maybe the single-store transactions how do you think about the best use of proceeds from those transactions? Well as with everything we’re looking at balancing growing the business and making the investments needed to do so along with obviously returning cash to the shareholders.
So I think it would be similar to how we look at the cash flow that we generate just from the business.
Great.
And it seems like you've been able to generate a lot of this -- these new initiatives without spending a lot of incremental capital so would you consider a larger share repurchase here if you were to get further proceeds? Absolutely we would consider anything but remember all of you who follow retail know that it’s fundamentally a cyclical business.
So we do want to ensure that we have the financial flexibility and access to the capital markets in all conditions.
So we’ll obviously balance how we use that cash with maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning Karen.
This is Lauren Cassel on for Kimberly.
Just going back to the real estate strategy it sounds like you are a bit more open to that subject today than in prior years.
Is that a fair statement? And then you announced Brooklyn and Pittsburgh recently so it seems like you are more open to opportunistically monetizing assets.
But is there anything other than all-time high real estate values that has changed your thinking there? I think that's the biggest issue.
We've looked at this for many times over the years and also obviously how we can monetize assets like Pittsburgh like Brooklyn particularly to increase the retail operation at the same time.
So I think it’s really the value enhancement and some of the transactions that have been announced this year that were interesting.
So I think between real estate values being high in some interesting transactions we are taking a deeper look at the subject.
Great thanks.
And we will take our next question from Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning Karen.
Good morning Matthew.
So if you back out tourism and we try our best to back out the friends and family we calculate flattish to slightly positive same-store sales in the quarter.
But then in light of some of your comments on the consumer and maybe some of their changes in spending patterns I guess as we look forward is it more fair to think about consumer spending in department store category as more in the 0% to 1% comp run rate versus maybe 2% to 3% historical thought process or just any help you can give me around that would be great.
I’m stepping back for a second.
I think the real answer Matt is that we see opportunities of generating more sales from our consumers.
It is clearly getting harder.
As I said there is a lot of competition for the dollar in categories other than what we sell but we have confidence in our team to develop -- deliver the sales that we've talked about and continue to be a market leader here.
Great.
And then as we think about back stage and the potential rollout if the fall test hits all your metrics what options would you consider for growth next year and beyond I guess both on an organic basis or would you also consider growing by acquisition? Yes I think we have to see how the test goes but there is lots of ways that we could grow Backstage whether it would be organic acquisition within Macy stores there’s lots of ideas floating but I don't want to get ahead of our test either.
Okay.
Great.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Oliver Chen with Cowen &amp; Co.
Thanks a lot Karen.
In your comments on back-to-school it sounded like you're encouraged.
I just was curious about categories or things that were driving that momentum and also when you did mention the slower growth in center core which categories are you referring to? Well in terms of back-to-school it's way too early to claim victory.
So we do feel good based on the early start.
Obviously there has been a lot of talk about denim and we see a lot of opportunity unfolding there for back-to-school but also for the fall season in total but it's too early to really talk fully about back-to-school  In terms of the slower growth categories some categories are just growing slower than they had but still growing very rapidly but we did mention weakness in the fashion jewelry and watch category in the quarter.
Okay.
And Karen on the -- regarding your helpful statements on real estate I just had a question about the bigger picture characteristics you're thinking about in terms of really maintaining your operational excellence maintaining investment grade thinking about your margins and thinking about how comps are not necessarily that predictable with external circumstances.
What are the constraints that you're evaluating just to ensure that you optimize any potential transaction? Well as I said earlier to Lorraine the key here is maintaining financial flexibility so that if the business hits a bump we would still have the access to the financial markets that we need to operate the business as a proxy for that.
That is why we talk about remaining investment grade as being so important to the company because we want to be a strong retailer for many years to come and so we do need to have that flexibility for the speed bumps that do happen or the cyclical nature of retail.
So those are all being factored into the arithmetic as we look at opportunities.
And just a final question your comment on expanded markets and same day it sounds really competitive and really focused on thinking about fulfillment in what inning would you say you're there and what's ahead for us to think about how you'll continue your leadership in thinking about apparel online.
Yes I think that I have no idea what inning it is because I think the game keeps getting extended.
So I think we will be investing and growing this business forever which is the exciting news and I think at the end of the day fulfillment is really important but it's also having the right assortment and I think our team is so good in combination with our vendor partners including private brand as having the right assortments and offering to the customer that that combined with the fulfillment opportunities I think is going to make us a leader in this arena.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Thank you for taking my question and thank you so much for all your comments around the end points of investment grade and maintaining balance sheet flexibility Karen can you talk specifically within the IG context about how important maintaining access to the commercial paper markets for you in terms of ongoing funding needs whether you could operate service of Tier 3 issuer comfortably or whether you would prefer to have the cushion that Tier 2 provide.
And then just an administrative question can you remind us where you need your cash balance to be at a minimum level.
It looks like your cash is low as it’s been since October of 2010.
So just wanted some guidance on how we should think about that going forward? Thank you.
Yes I think the key thing is having access to commercial paper is a great thing and obviously gives you flexibility and lower borrowing cost and accessing our bank facility but we could access the bank facility should we not have access to the commercial paper market.
So I can't tell you today that maintaining access is critical for the company going forward but we’d obviously like to keep that capability because again for a highly seasonal business that becomes very important.
And then just cash balance question.
Yes I don’t know how to answer that.
So I think I’m just going to deflect that question.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question Charles Grom with Sterne Agee CRT.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning Charles.
On the tourism headwind could you just remind us when that started last year and are we close to cycling that headwind? And I guess in conjunction how were trends at Bloomingdale's in the quarter? Yes it’s started really in December maybe late November.
So it’s really the fourth quarter that we should begin to have easier comparisons.
I don’t know that the international tours will get better.
That’s the year rounding effect and Bloomingdale's had a disappointing quarter as well and they’re actually more impacted by the tourist slowdown as you might imagine given where the stores are then is Macy’s.
Okay.
Great.
And then just throughout the quarter just any sense for have comps trended by month and any early read on August.
Obviously I’m not going to comment on the early August.
So that is just too early to judge and there really wasn’t much change.
We obviously had a tough June given friends and family but we expected it although it was worse than we had expected.
Okay.
Thanks and good luck.
And we’ll take our next question from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
You've touched on it a little bit but if you can give any more detail get a little bit more granular for us to help us make -- be more comfortable with your second-half guidance which I believe includes a return to positive comps flattish gross margin and in-line SG&amp;A dollars year over year if I heard you correctly.
Just given your prior comments regarding the consumer's preference to shopping restaurants and travel what we already know about the promotional environment as well as your focus on shipping and same-day shipping expansion as well as some of the challenges you mentioned around credit card changes that will impact SG&amp;A healthcare and other factors.
You’re full of doom and gloom Paul.
Look we’ve tried to layout in a release and also in my comments earlier today that some of the things that give us comfort that there will be some improvement in the fall starting with all that's going on in the Omnichannel world.
We think it will be very important as we go into the fall.
The top door strategy that I talked about go back and listen or read the transcript from today but all of those things do give us the comfort that we're going to be able to deliver the fall results.
Thank you.
And just going back to comments you made back in February you spoke about entering phase three which obviously included a focus on the growth initiatives and innovation but also doing that at the 14% EBITDA level.
Has industry conditions changed in terms or your positioning changed in terms of expectations to maintain that level? Or do you still believe that is doable? I think that level is an attainable level obviously this year we're taking a step backwards if we take out the Brooklyn gain as you can tell from our guidance it's obvious from the math.
So you can see that but that doesn’t mean we don’t think it's the right level to get back to and we still think that that's achievable even accelerating our growth through these new initiatives.
Thank you and good luck.
We will take our next question from Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Karen a couple questions on the real estate transaction.
Again thank you for taking the question.
So explain how you get a $250 million gain with $170 million of proceeds.
I'm wondering if you're also including the $100 million that your partner is going to be contributing over the next three years.
And can you quantify the EPS effect of the $250 million gain? Are you considering any tax strategies to try to minimize that and so forth? Thank you.
Well there is two different questions yes the accounting is such that it's the $270 million which gets you to the $250 million gain which is approximately $0.46 a share.
We are working on tax strategies vis-à-vis the cash taxes but the book taxes would lead to the $0.46 a share impact roughly on the year.
Got it got it.
And I am wondering in the second quarter did you see any boost from loyalty customers that were seeking the use of their point balances due to the transition to the Plenti program? No I think it too early and we didn't really expect it.
I think it takes time to accumulate the points and see the value and remember we just launched it in early May.
So it is going to take time.
Our hope is that as the year goes on we begin to get the benefit but it does take time for those points to accumulate.
The good news is the good news is that we've had lots of customers far more than we had expected sign up.
So at least they're interested in the program and hopefully they’ll get engaged and learn how to maximize their points and use them.
But what I was referring to I am sorry if I wasn’t clear the old Star Rewards program I guess those points had to be used by the end of May.
Correct.
So if you had any balance left over you would lose those or a customer for example where they were trying to build up points and get certificates to use before they lost everything.
That's kind of what I was referring to.
I don't think that that happened.
I think we did a very good job communicating with those customers but I don't think it helped sales in the quarter.
Okay.
And one real quick one I am a joint venture with China the $25 million investment your share does that comprised or is some of it going through the P&amp;L? No Jeff as I said there is an immaterial impact on earnings in the quarter sorry in the fall.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Hey good morning Karen.
Could you help us talk a little bit about I think you commented that and I apologize if I missed anything that you're getting it back to flat gross margins in the second half.
Just seems like as eCommerce gets bigger and the inventories are a little high you got new initiatives like same day delivery and then slower sales to tourists or at least your third quarter which I am assuming has a low return rate.
Are some of the underlying drivers on the gross margins helping you to get back to flat that you can maybe point out to us? Yes just we believe that that's doable given the mix of the business and what we expect to happen.
eCommerce is not a negative to gross margin.
So yes delivery expenses but again we think we've planned it properly and we'll see.
Okay.
So on the -- if we just tried around some of the math on Brooklyn it looks like it was about a $0.45 listen in the numbers maybe I am off on that but that's a pretty significant reduction excluding Brooklyn on a smaller sales adjustment.
Can you tell us about the SG&amp;A from here in the second half and how flexible the planned spending is in the second half if there is another downside scenario for you there or the industry or for you? Will there be a similar level of deleverage on sales in the back half? Well we're always trying to reduce expense when we see sales decline and SG&amp;A was not up that much this year.
So I am not quite sure what you're referring to.
Obviously if sales are down you are going to deleverage but we're always looking if sales aren’t materializing to trying to offset or minimize the impact of that with expense and I think that will continue into the back half of the year.
Okay.
And then just one final one you've been helping us with your comments on real estate for several quarters now.
I was just wondering if you with your longevity in the industry can you talk about even though real estate values are peaking now what any hesitations you may have at this point as you dot the eyes on how you're looking at anything you may do as you maybe look at what kind of financial obligations it will create for the retail business longer term thanks? Well I don't know that the word is hesitation.
I think it's just making sure that the total fixed cost that we put on the business whether it would be interest expense or rent expense is appropriate given EBITDA that we expect to generate through all cycles.
So I wouldn't use the word hesitation.
It just has to all work together.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Yes Karen mention was made about consumer spending on all the categories that are sold in department stores and of course Macy's has made adjustments through the addition of athletic footwear you're bringing in tuxedos.
But the one thing that you mentioned just a while ago was perhaps a licensee for electronics could you speak about what the options are for bringing in a categories that are more in the forefront of consumer spending especially among young shoppers? Sure.
We're continuing to look at options for that.
So that’s clearly on the radar screen.
We're also trying to bring in products.
So for example wearable tech is something that we're bringing in.
Products like Fitbits and things like that.
So we are trying to bring products into our assortment that fit that need and also still explaining opportunities vis-à-vis license partners.
Thank you.
The second question that I have is in regard to the expense control.
Of course sales were down in comps in the second quarter which was a surprise but in the first quarter you said that you were surprised by the weakness of sales but didn't have as much option to play with expense levels as you might have in the second quarter.
Of course there was the addition of Bluemercury.
But I didn't see as much adjustment in expenses as I thought might have occurred given your prior history of making such adjustments quickly.
Well remember we are also investing in Omni channel which we think is critical and obviously sales -- digital sales are growing quite rapidly.
So it would be wrong to start making that investment.
We also obviously have to start-up expense associated with Backstage.
So those are things that would be wrong to stop doing.
We obviously could have but not the right answer for the business over the long term.
And finally in the first quarter you said that the decline in tourism hit comp store sales by about 50 basis points.
No we said a point A point okay.
I'm glad you corrected that.
What would be the impact in the second quarter? A point it's about the same.
Which to me implies that tourism was down around 20% tourists sales.
Is that a reasonable estimate? We’re not giving that number.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You bet.
And we’ll take our next question from Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So following up on Matt's earlier question on off-price I'm just curious what are some of the learnings that you are getting from the pilots that is giving you confidence in the further expansion? And then kind of as a secondary question… Well they haven't opened yet.
So there is really no learning yet.
I guess I was just referencing the comments in the press release.
But I guess the other question is just on the supply chain side.
What would potentially have to change to support additional stores? Is there any thought process on additional CapEx needed to support that expansion as it relates to next year? Obviously if we’re going to expand it we will obviously map out the investment needed and plan accordingly.
Okay.
And then I guess the second would be a follow-up on Jeff's question on the Plenti sign-ups.
What are you seeing from those customers relative to the Star Rewards? What do you mean relative to the Star Rewards? I guess do you see incremental spending on certain categories or how are they responding? Well I think the key thing is we talked about the fact that proprietary penetration is up in part because of the Plenti program taking hold.
So I think that's a good sign.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
And we will take our next question from Joan Payson with Barclays.
Hi good morning Karen.
You mentioned the acceleration in inventory growth earlier.
Is there any way to quantify how much of that growth is the early pull-forward of that new seasonal product? No it’s actually hard to do so I was trying to do the same thing last night because I thought somebody might ask.
So I don’t know the answer.
It is the good chunk of it over and above the sales expectations are as we go into the spring season -- I’m sorry into the fall season.
Okay great.
And then with some of the categories that you are investing in the most right now including active wear and dresses could you talk about how those are performing versus other categories? And also is that more of a this year focus or is it also a long-term investment? No it’s a long-term investment and we talked about them as being strong categories.
I guess didn’t call out dresses this quarter but it has been in prior quarters and still does well.
So we think it’s long-term and not just something that's happening this fall season.
And so we’re investing more and more in the whole health environments arena.
You'll see us do more in that and obviously dresses plays into the wedding strategy in addition to just social dresses in total junior dresses relating to prom all kinds of things as we're building more business with the Millennial customer.
Okay.
Great.
They are long-term as well as short term.
Thanks.
And my last one is just about the upcoming openings of those off-price stores.
Are there any changes that are going to be made to the surrounding or overlapping full-price stores in the same markets either in terms of assortments or promotional activity? Not anticipated at this time.
Great thank you And we’ll take our next question from Bob Drbul with Nomura Securities.
Hi Karen.
Good morning.
Hey Bob.
Just a couple of questions from me.
The first one is are you seeing any change -- when you look at the consumer interest in the branded national brands versus private brands is there any change within your mix on that standpoint? And when you look at the overall sales results are competitive pressures impacting your business at all any differently than they have over the last several quarters? Actually in terms of the change in mix and consumer view towards national versus private brands we are really not seeing anything in that arena.
And in terms of competitive activity the answer really is no.
We're really sticking to our playbook and don’t think that that’s had a big impact.
Obviously we're reporting first.
So we'll learn a lot more over the next couple of days and next week.
On the Bloomingdale side I would say the upscale world has gotten a lot more promotional.
So for Bloomingdale the competitive activity as probably a bigger fact then it would have been in the case of Macy’s.
Got it.
And in the back half of the year is the credit income level expected to continue to be higher? Yes just not the third quarter.
Okay.
And then last question I have is you called out a medical benefit expense.
Can you just elaborate a little bit what's going on there? I think that's the first time you've called that out.
Well there is two things happening.
One is I think we’ve talked for a long time about the pressure of higher medical cost which I think is probably impacting most companies/ What’s different about this year is we’ve gone to a consumer directed plan and as part of that and this is probably more detail than you need.
We've helped to fund the HSA accounts for our employees and so there was more expense in the second quarter than it would have been last year.
So part of it is timing but we also expect a big increase in medical expense for the full year as well.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll take our next question from Stacie Rabinowitz with Consumer Edge Research.
Good morning.
I actually had two if you don't mind.
The first was just with the AUR decline you saw this quarter; is that coming from -- what portion of it is coming from the markdowns due to the ports a potential mix shift? It’s mostly due to the clearance activity again mostly driven by the ports as well as the weaker sales earlier in the year.
Okay.
And then my second question was actually around the Bluemercury openings in the Macy's stores.
Are there any plans to put in some of the spa and services businesses? I don’t believe so in the first four but we are absolutely considering that.
Great.
Thank you so much.
And we will take our next question from Matt McGinley with Evercore ISI.
Good morning Karen.
My first question is on the SG&amp;A.
I just want to make sure I have this right.
Ex Brooklyn your SG&amp;A in the back half should be at around the same rate or the same dollar basis as you had last year? I was doing it on dollars.
Okay good.
Then in the second quarter and you listed all the growth drivers and obviously there was a lot of spend in this quarter as it related to that.
But was that spend more heavily weighted in the second quarter than we would see in the third and fourth quarter that would have caused more deleverage in this quarter versus other quarters this year? Well Backstage opens.
So that would obviously be less of a factor as they are beginning to generate sales and margins.
Bluemercury would be similar and the Omni channel investment is going to continue through the year.
And then I think last quarter in the fourth quarter you said that there was a renewed focus on these top 150 stores in the platinum 30.
Was there any real difference that you saw in terms of the comp rate in the quarter between the top 150 and all of the other stores? Well there is a complicating factor if you're relating to the tourist stores.
So a lot of those top stores are impacted by the declines in international tourist.
So if you take the tourist impact I think the answer would be yes but obviously with the tourist impact those stores are getting hit harder.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning Dana.
Can you give us an update on the single view of inventory and how the progress is being made there? And lastly on the weakness in jewelry and watches that you had mentioned do you think of that as related to tourism related to product trends? How would you describe that? Thank you.
Yes in terms of single use of the inventory I would say it's progressing.
As I mentioned earlier there has been a steeper learning curve on that subject as well as the restructure than we had expected.
So I don't think we're getting the full benefit of having that single view of the inventory which again for people who aren’t as close to the details is that we merge the inventories that is in the warehouses for a direct to consumer business plus the stores so that our planners are able to better allocate merchandize across warehouses and stores.
It has helped us to begin to improve turnover as well as obviously help margin and more importantly get goods closer to the consumer.
Having said that I would say we're in the early innings of maximizing the opportunity there.
So I think that's still ahead of us as we go forward.
In terms of the weakness in watches and jewelry I think it's sort of all of those things and as you recall and as we talked earlier we've actually started a test where we're trying to intensify our business not only in the fashion jewelry and watches but also find that we think may address some of this weakness as we go forward.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from David Glick with Buckingham Research Group Thank you.
Good morning Karen.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Had a couple follow-ups.
How do you -- with the additional proceeds from the sale of the Brooklyn store how do you look at the buyback for this year in terms of what you are anticipating? Obviously your EBITDA projection is lower today as well but how do we think about the buyback for the year? And then secondly didn't talk a lot about some of the other categories.
You mentioned some of the strong and weak but in general you talked about center core.
But how about ready-to-wear home and men's in terms of how they are trending and what the prospects are going forward? Thank you.
In terms of the buyback as with every year we look at our cash flow and look at what's the appropriate leverage ratios and we utilize our cash appropriately.
Obviously with this transaction happening at the end of the year unlikely to have a big impact on the buyback in '15 more likely beginning of '16 but obviously that's incremental cash that can be used to buyback more stock.
In terms of the other categories ready to wear continues to be tough with exceptions of areas like active denim doing better dresses doing a little bit better.
Men's I would say was mixed but with a lot of strength in some parts.
Home we talked about the big ticket areas being very strong furniture and mattresses and actually we've started a pilot of a new approach to soft home which appears to have a lot of promise.
So we feel good about the prospects for that business as we move forward into the fall season.
Then just a quick follow-up.
Obviously the EBITDA projection down this year.
How do you look at that shortfall and how quickly you can recover that going forward? Obviously some of the headwinds this year are transitory some are not.
But as you look at your EBITDA level coming out of the year how quickly are you looking at making up that operating shortfall? That's a big question of the day.
We're looking at that as we're speaking today.
So I don't know the answer to that yet.
Thank you very much.
Good luck in the second half.
Thanks David.
And we'll take our next question from Richard Jaffe with Stifel Nicolaus Thanks very much and I'm really excited about the opportunity in China and the initiative.
I'm just wondering about the magnitude that is to say the size of the offerings the breadth the depth where the inventory is going to kept.
Will you be doing fulfillment in China? And will the online experience be very similar to what we see here or are you creating a unique experience for the folks in China? I think those are all the questions we're still trying to answer.
For this fall it will be relatively limited assortment and the goods will be in Hong Kong but over time assuming it works well the idea would be to have the goods house in China hopefully at some point and see how much of the website we need to modify to fit the consumer in China.
We're not going into this thinking we know all the answers and that's why we're taking sort of a test and learn approach because we know the Chinese consumer is different both in terms of merchandized taste but also how they interact online and so again we're going in with an open mind and not assuming we know all the answers.
The good news is with Ken Anderson running it who as I mentioned earlier was the founder of macys.com and has been there since up until the last couple of months.
I think we're in very good hands for trying to switch through how to build this business appropriately.
I think so too.
What will Fung Retail's contribution be in this process either dollars or expertise? The dollars obvious but there is a great deal of expertise.
They obviously understand the Chinese customer in ways that we don't yet and they are terrific business people.
So we're really very excited about the partnership and think that they're going to add a lot to the strategy and also helping us execute.
They have great capabilities as I think you all know not through Fung Retailing but through Lee and Fung which will also have access to in logistics HR and all of these subjects that are going to be so important to the success of this venture.
I look forward to it.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Exstein with Credit Suisse Thank you Karen.
Two quick questions.
Number one can you talk about the decision to eliminate the friends and family in the quarter? And are you going to add one in the second half of the year to offset it? Secondly in terms of the gross margin decline was there any mix shift impact on your gross margin or was it just purely clearance more inventory at the end of the quarter? So in terms of the margin it was not a mix shift.
It was purely clearance of inventory.
And in terms of the decision to eliminate the friends and family obviously in hind side I am not sure it was a good one but we're not adding an event to offset it.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
And we'll take our next question from Wayne Hood with BMO Capital Markets Yes Karen I just had two real estate questions and then a working capital question.
I guess on the real estate side on the Brooklyn transaction does that preclude you from eventually vending the owned piece into a REIT with a joint venture partner at some point in the future? No it does not.
We still own the part of the store that we're operating.
Okay.
So that's still a potential outcome.
The second I guess for you and the Board and Terry as you think about what's going on with real estate today there's an element of surfacing the value the way you've done but there's also throwing it in to or entering into a joint venture relationship with a JV partner that could grow.
And I'm wondering as they think about that broadly speaking does it not to provide a growth silo for you eventually by partnering with a joint venture partner that could not only monetize your real estate but go out and buy other assets to grow buy.
And you could lever off of that in a way that you were not able to create a silo in the past.
I think the answer is we've said as we're looking at all options obviously that's one of the options that we're looking at.
Okay.
And the last question I guess is on working capital.
You mentioned a little bit about inventory.
Can you talk a little bit about where you think inventory will be at the end of the third or fourth quarter? And maybe if you can dive into where you think working capital might be by the end of those periods if at all.
I think on a comp basis I think it will be up at the end of the year but less than it is right now but I can't give you a forecast at this point precisely.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Karen.
And we'll take our next question from Laurent Vasilescu with FBR Capital Markets Good morning.
Following upon Joan's question can you provide a bit more color on how your athletic business is doing? Was there a pickup on -- over the first quarter? And are you seeing any particular strength in footwear versus apparel men's versus women's and any call outs on particular brands? We don't discuss particular brands and I would say the whole business has done very well first quarter and second quarter men's women's apparel footwear etcetera.
So we feel very good about that business.
Okay great.
And then with the resurgence in denim sales are you seeing consumers trading away from any other categories? Well obviously if you're buying denim you're probably not going to buy the same bottoms that you had been buying.
The good thing for us is that denim comes at a higher AUR and also requires different tops and footwear to go with it.
So it could be a really good trend for us assuming it continues Okay great.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Todd Duvick with Wells Fargo.
Karen good morning.
Appreciate you getting us in.
Just a follow-up to several of the previous questions.
As you look at real estate opportunities or potential real estate opportunities does your too forward of 2000 publicly stated lease adjusted leverage that's still hold or could that potentially change? It does still hold.
Could it potentially change I guess so but remember as I said repeatedly financial flexibility and access to capital markets is really critical for us.
So that will obviously always be a factor.
Got you.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate it.
And we have no further questions.
And I would now like to turn the conference back over to Karen Hoguet for any additional or closing remarks.
No I just want to say thank you everybody for your interest your support and if you have further questions obviously let me know let Matt know and we'll do our best to get back to you as quickly as we can.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Please stand by we're about to begin.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's Inc.
Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's conference call.
I'm Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
I'm joined this morning by Terry Lundgren Macy's Chairman and CEO.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately two hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in our most recently filed Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
Terry Lundgren will start us off this morning to discuss the company's results and strategic imperatives.
I will then discuss three subjects in more detail; the third quarter earnings our work on real estate and the outlook for the fourth quarter.
And then we'll open the call up for your questions.
So let's get started.
It's a lot to cover.
Terry? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Good morning.
I wanted to join the call today to help give my perspective to you directly on the third quarter earnings to talk about the outlook and to discuss our analysis on real estate and other strategic decisions that we've made.
These decisions are all being made to enhance shareholder value by strengthening our core business and accelerating changes in this new retailing climate.
As you see from our press release we had a very tough quarter and we are clearly disappointed with the 3.6% decline in comp store sales of owned and licensed businesses and the 8% drop in earnings per share.
We believe that the retail industry is going through a tough period that we seem to experience something like this every five years to seven years or so and this one feels familiar in that regard.
As many of you know this is a management team that has navigated through difficult times in the past and we've done so successfully.
As we've demonstrated in the past we use these challenging times to move decisively forward.
We use these times to reset our ambitions and determine how we're going to win and where we're going to play while maintaining a financial objective that we set for our shareholders which is to grow sales profitably maintain an industry-leading profitability rate and improve return on invested capital.
We know this is what will enable us to maximize total shareholder returns.
We've done this in the past and we'll do this again.
You will recall our decisions in 2008 and 2009 that made us a much stronger and much more successful company.
We have a track record of strong financial performance and return of capital.
We are taking significant steps on these important fronts all designed to improve our operating results and enhance shareholder value.
We're taking a series of actions specifically aimed at strengthening our core business.
These are designed to restore our owned plus licensed comp sales growth to the 2% to 3% range that we've had in the past and an EBITDA rate of 14% over the next few years.
We continue to believe that the M.O.M.
strategies are right but they need to evolve over time.
The first M in our M.O.M.
strategy is for My Macy's.
We continue to focus on localization and getting the right mix of merchandise in our stores for our customers at a local level.
We are now taking this to an even more granular level with more focus on personalization.
This will happen both in-store and online.
Our aspiration is to help personalize shopping experience and offers to our customers as they walk into our stores or enter our website.
We also need to help attract new customers in ways that we will make them feel like it is My Macy's for each and every one of them.
The second letter the O for Omnichannel now embraces our mobile strategy as well as some new services and models that we've begun testing such as subscription services.
We intend to fully push the digital frontier utilizing our innovative culture with more and more testing and faster learning.
We also are helping customers get merchandise however they wish whether it be same-day delivery Buy Online Pickup in Store whatever is their preference.
The last M Magic Selling has been expanded to encompass magic experiences beyond just the selling floor.
We need to keep making progress with our service particularly in-store.
Although operating over 750 locations with approximately 150 000 associates and providing good service in every transaction does present its challenges it is an essential part of our mission.
As part of this strategy we are pushing to improve shopping experiences through our people as well as through technology.
We have piloted our approach in jewelry and watches in 40 locations this fall and based on its early success we are rolling it out companywide in mid-2016.
We have had great success with licensed businesses which help us acquire new customers and make our stores more productive.
As you saw this morning we announced another new partnership this time with LensCrafters to open optical departments in as many as 500 Macy's locations.
In addition to the evolution of our M.O.M.
strategies I wanted to discuss two other subjects which are important to our core business and will help us achieve our goals.
First as we discussed last quarter we are concentrating our resources on strengthening our top doors in our best locations.
These locations have tremendous growth potential and we believe with greater focus we can improve their already-strong results.
We also recognize that we have the opportunity to condense our network of stores.
We expect to close roughly 35 stores to 40 stores in early 2016 as previously announced and we expect to continue to close more stores in the future.
We will reduce expense and tighten capital spending additionally to operate more efficiently while funding the highest potential growth initiatives.
Our target is to reduce SG&amp;A by $500 million on an annual basis by 2016.
But be clear that we're going to make significant incremental progress in 2016 and 2017 as well.
We expect part of this reduction to result from a greater use of technology.
We will also reduce capital spending for the next year to be somewhere around $1 billion and that compares to $1.2 billion which we expect to spend this year and that's just the right decision for us to make after the challenging year that we're having.
In addition to strengthening the core business we are also testing new directions for future growth.
We look for places where the growth is complementary to our core business.
We want to invest in attractive businesses that meet three criteria.
One would be the business is attractive on its own; two where we would bring something new to the table; and three where assuming we win we'll strengthen our core capabilities.
The three areas which we are focused currently on is – one is Backstage which you know about but over the next two years we intend to open approximately 50 free-standing Backstage stores.
In addition to spring – into spring 2016 we're going to pilot Backstage stores within up to 10 existing Macy's store locations creating a new hybrid model and we believe that these stores within our stores can help bring new vendors and new categories which will appeal to existing customers but also attract new customers to the full-line store.
We are finding that Backstage is definitely attracting a younger consumer.
And assuming these pilots work we'll be ready to roll this concept out as a hybrid model quickly.
Second idea is Bluemercury where we've opened 16 free-standing Bluemercury stores this year taking that total to 76.
Over the next two years we expect to open another 40 or more locations.
In addition we're rolling out Bluemercury shops in Macy's stores and we'll utilize the Macy's capability to greatly enhance the experience and grow our online business at bluemercury.com.
And also we will appropriately expand Macy's in China.
I was just there last week as we watched on Alibaba's Tmall Global site and we are also opening Macy's and Bloomingdale's stores in Abu Dhabi in 2018.
These tests may also lead to further international opportunities.
Before I turn the call over to Karen I want to make a few comments about real estate.
I'm particularly pleased that Tishman Speyer has become our partner and they're going to help us to capture more value from our real estate.
This is something we believe in and Tishman Speyer is a company that has an outstanding track record of creativity in developing world-class real estate assets and they are as excited as I am about the possibilities to unlock potential value in many of our real estate locations including our mall locations.
So we're going to begin by focusing our efforts on potential partners or joint ventures for the four major flagship properties but don't misunderstand me; this is just the beginning.
But we're going to start with Herald Square Union Square State Street and Downtown Minneapolis.
From our work so far we believe there is material shareholder value that could potentially be created from these efforts.
And these partnerships could extend as I said into the mall store locations as well.
We will also intensify our current efforts with selected real estate monetizations and redevelopments in instances where the retail business could be enhanced or where the value of the real estate simply exceeds the value to operate it as a retail business.
And we've demonstrated this in the past and we think there's more of these opportunities.
As Karen will discuss in a few minutes we and our board concluded there was not enough value to be created from the establishment of a REIT at this time even before factoring in the operational and tax risks associated with doing so but we did put these unconcluded risks aside for our valuation process and still came to the conclusion that a REIT just does not create significant value or enough significant value at this time.
And so we've studied it we've used great outside advisors to help us think this through and I just want you to know that we've given this a very very thorough thorough look.
Also know just that I'm just not happy with our current overall results and I'm committed to fixing it.
Our team is among the deepest most experienced and most determined team in retail.
That's been clearly recognized for the last several years as we've proven to have strong success.
And while we are quite dissatisfied with our current results we're quite confident that we'll be able to return to delivering profitable growth.
We know this is what you expect of us and I guarantee you that's what I expect of ourselves.
Our expectations are based on our demonstrated ability to respond to market challenges and emerge stronger.
No other retailer has a track record of mastering change and remember that some of our boldest and best ideas are developed during these down cycles.
Our success since the beginning of fiscal 2009 which includes a 540% total shareholder return versus the Dow of 121% over the same period means that we have demonstrated our ability to do this and we're operating from a position of financial strength.
So let me turn this over to Karen now who's going to fill you in on some more of the details.
Thanks Terry.
As Terry said the third quarter was disappointing.
The sales trend unexpectedly weakened versus that experienced during the first half of the year.
Comp sales on an owned plus licensed basis were down 3.6% and on total sales of $5.9 billion were down 5.2% below last year.
As discussed last quarter the total sales declined more than comp due primarily to the reduction in sales of our private brand merchandise to a third-party.
Traffic was clearly a problem for us in the quarter as I'll discuss in a minute and I have to say we're anxious to see how other retailers fared in the quarter.
But in the absence of that perspective I'll describe the factors that we believe led to the weakness.
First sales performance in our tourist doors weakened versus the second quarter with a significant decline in international tourist sales.
Using international credit card sales as the proxy we estimate the impact of the lower international tourist sales to be approximately 1.5 points in the third quarter which compares to the one point that we talked about for the first quarter and the second quarter.
As you might imagine these are also our most profitable doors.
And remember that we are significantly more weighted to tourist markets than our major competitors.
Second the weather has not helped with the warm temperatures experienced across the country.
Our sales of cold weather merchandise such as coats sweaters boots et cetera were significantly below last year in the quarter.
Third the Center Core businesses are still growing but experiencing slower growth than in recent years.
This is in part related to the slowdown in tourist sales.
And fourth some of our major brands experienced weakness during the quarter as you've heard mentioned on the various calls recently.
In spite of disappointing overall sales there were some bright spots.
First digital growth continued to be very strong.
Our furniture and mattress business also continued very strong and soft home categories like textiles tabletop et cetera strengthened in the third quarter.
Active continues to be a very strong category for us across the store whether it be in men's women's or kids.
In fact our kids and younger Millennial businesses also did relatively well in the quarter.
Geographically we did the best in the West particularly the Northwest.
As I referenced a few minutes ago the total number of transactions was down 3.6% versus last year in the third quarter which compares to a flattish trend in the first half of the year.
Transactions are a proxy for traffic and clearly something changed in the third quarter.
Average unit retail was down 1% and units per transaction were up 1% versus last year.
Both of these trends were similar to those in the first half of the year.
Gross margin rate in the quarter was 39.8% up 60 basis points versus last year.
Merchandise margin was up slightly in the quarter but the gross margin rate also benefited from the reduction in the low margin third-party sales versus last year.
Inventory at the end of the third quarter was up 4.6% and on a comp basis inventory was up 3.1%.
This is higher than anticipated and higher than we'd like it to be but it is the result of the disappointing sales performance.
We will need to liquidate this inventory in the fourth quarter so that we can maintain the flow of fresh new merchandise.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $1.968 billion down $39 million or 1.9% versus last year.
During the third quarter we booked a $57 million gain on the sale of the upper floors of our Seattle store which occurred a quarter earlier than we had planned.
In total in the third quarter we booked $78 million of asset sales which compares to $48 million last year.
Marketing expense was less than last year in the quarter due primarily to a timing shift into the fourth quarter.
We also benefited in the quarter from the savings associated with the restructuring implemented earlier this year and also a reduction in the bonus accrual due to our weak performance.
The reductions were offset in part by our investment in growth initiatives investments in digital Bluemercury Backstage and China.
Credit income in the quarter was $177 million which is $5 million lower than last year as anticipated due to the costs associated with reissuing our co-brand credit cards with chips.
Credit usage or penetration was 49.3% in the quarter above last year by 60 basis points.
Remember also that we are consolidating the results from the China joint venture which at this point is only a small amount of expense.
Operating income before the asset impairment charge was $369 million or 13% below last year.
We also booked non-cash asset impairment charges of $111 million in the quarter.
These are primarily related to the potential 35 store closings to 40 store closings which we announced in September.
The estimate will be fine-tuned if necessary when the decisions on specific locations to be closed is finalized later in the year.
Interest expense in the quarter was $80 million; tax expense was $61 million an effective rate of 34.6%.
Also as I just mentioned we're consolidating the results for China that flow into our operating income.
We then will break out the portion of in this case the loss attributable for our joint venture partner which was $1 million in the quarter.
Net income attributable to Macy's shareholders is $118 million or $186 million excluding the asset impairment charges which is 14% below last year.
Average share count on a diluted basis was 329.7 million shares down 8% from last year.
And therefore earnings per share excluding the asset impairment charge was $0.56 a share which is down 8% from last year's $0.61 a share on this basis.
Moving on to cash flow; year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $278 million $563 million below last year.
This is due to less net income more inventory and lower payables.
Cash flow from investing activities is about the same as last year excluding our acquisition of Bluemercury earlier in the year.
In the financing section you will note that we showed $791 million of debt issued which is all commercial paper.
These borrowings are expected to be gone long before the end of the fourth quarter.
You'll also note that we bought back $1.8 billion of stock this year or 30.6 million shares.
Let's move on now to real estate.
As Terry said we and our board have been studying numerous alternatives for utilizing our real estate to create value.
We engaged multiple advisors and have spent countless hours examining alternatives.
Our primary focus in recent months has been related to the potential for spinning off some of our properties into a REIT.
The premise of a REIT as you know is that we would create a separate real estate business that would presumably trade at a higher multiple than we do as a retailer and that this new entity would be able to then grow into a separate business on its own.
That opportunity for valuation arbitrage and creating a new business sounds promising.
But as we analyzed it further we realized that its creation would not create nearly as much value for our shareholders as we had hoped.
We reached this conclusion before taking into consideration the operational and tax risks associated with the creation of a REIT which also would be relevant.
Our analysis addressed several key factors; first the size of the REIT.
This is a function of the rent that the retailer can pay and therefore the amount of earnings for the REIT that could be then capitalized at a potentially more attractive valuation multiple.
Second is how the REIT would be valued.
Honestly there aren't any true comparables to look at for a Macy's REIT which would at least at the outset be a single-tenant department store REIT.
Some of the factors influencing valuation include the quality of the properties the diversification of geography and brand as well as the lease terms themselves.
And the third key factor would be how would the pro forma retailer trade? In other words would the separation of real estate impact the valuation attributed to Macy's by the public markets given the leveraging effect of incremental rent and the loss of control of properties? Even assuming no change in the retailer's multiple a conservative assumption on a pro forma basis any resulting value creation is not significant.
So each of these three factors played a part in driving the conclusion.
The most significant was the amount of incremental leverage in the form of rent that the retailer could support.
This in turn is driven by the financial flexibility needed at the retailer to manage through ongoing secular changes in the sector.
Our industry can be cyclical and you don't have to look far back for evidence that swings in leverage can be material through this cycle.
We've lived through enough downturns and bankruptcies to know that there is a real benefit to the retailer of maintaining the flexibility of an investment grade rating and having access to capital in all markets particularly when the industry is in flux.
In addition our real estate advisors indicated that the REIT would trade better if the retailer was investment grade since at least initially it would be a single-tenant REIT.
As I said a few minutes ago the leveraging impact is highly material.
When we capitalize the potential rent that the retailer would pay the REIT at the 9.3 times factor for Macy's that Moody's is using for us for 2014 or potentially higher given that these leases would be long-term in nature cash generated through leverage of the REIT can offset that somewhat by paying down existing debt but leverage is still a limiting factor on the size of the REIT transaction that we could pursue.
There would also be material transaction leakage in any REIT formation.
These friction costs would include items such as debt prepayment costs transaction fees incremental property taxes and transfer taxes.
We would also be required under the relevant tax rule to affect what is known as an earnings and profits purge whereby we would distribute a portion of pre-transaction accumulated earnings and profits.
While our shareholders would ultimately benefit from this distribution it would limit proceeds available for debt paydown at the retailer and consequently the size of the REIT transaction that we could prudently pursue.
In the end the value creation was not significant and as such our board decided not to proceed.
This is something we will continue to monitor as circumstances and markets could change.
As Terry mentioned we are encouraged by the possible value creation from partnership or joint venture opportunities for our flagship properties at Herald Square Union Square in San Francisco State Street in Chicago and Downtown Minneapolis.
These transactions could be for individual properties or could be more broad-based.
We are open to all possibilities that will create sustainable value.
The board agreed that we should immediately begin a process to explore these opportunities.
The ultimate structures will be determined by our process.
Our expectation though is that we will be able to create significant value.
It is possible that these partnerships and joint ventures as I mentioned a minute ago would extend to our mall-based stores and be significantly more broad-based than these four properties.
We're seeking creative ways to strengthen our retail presence while monetizing or highlighting value of the less productive space.
These will take some time to execute.
In the case of these four buildings they are very complex and the best answers are likely to be very site specific.
As examples both Brooklyn and Seattle took over a year from inception to completion.
We have also recognized through all this work that we could benefit by adding resources to help us create more value with our real estate.
As Terry mentioned earlier we've engaged Tishman Speyer in an expanded relationship to advise and support our management team in identifying and advancing potential store redevelopment projects nationwide.
We are very excited to have their help with these efforts.
And as always we will give you progress reports as we proceed.
So let's move on now to our outlook for the fourth quarter.
As you saw in our press release we are forecasting our comp sales on an owned plus licensed basis to be down 2% to 3% which would lead to the year being down 1.8% to 2.2% on this basis.
Total sales for the year are now assumed to be down 2.7% to 3.1%.
The fourth quarter sales assumption incorporates an improvement in trend from the third quarter.
I would point to three factors that should contribute to this improvement in trend.
The first is that Macy's and bloomingdales.com both penetrate higher as a percent of sales in the fourth quarter than in earlier quarters.
Therefore the higher growth rate of the online business is mathematically more of a help to the sales increase in the fourth quarter than it is in the third quarter.
Second weakening international tourist business reaches the one-year point in mid-December and that will help the comparison be a bit more favorable in the back half of the quarter.
And three we feel very good about our gift assortments given early reads in our prototype store.
The trend in that store has improved significantly since we set it up for the holidays.
The newness in some of our gifts is great items like faux fur tech watches and novelty gifts.
The gross margin is expected to be well below last year in the fourth quarter due primarily to the higher-than-desired inventory position going into the quarter.
For the fall season as a whole we are expecting a lower gross margin rate than last year.
SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter is expected to benefit from the $250 million gain on the Brooklyn transaction.
Excluding this gain SG&amp;A dollars are expected to increase versus last year.
While we will continue to benefit from the restructuring completed earlier this year the benefits are offset by the investment in growth initiatives the shift in the timing of marketing expense in the third quarter as well as lower asset sales gains this year outside of the Brooklyn transaction.
Interest expense is assumed to be $96 million in the fourth quarter.
And as you saw in the release we are now assuming annual earnings per share on a diluted basis excluding asset impairment and other store closing costs of $4.20 to $4.30.
This equates to fourth quarter earnings per share of $2.54 to $2.64 on this basis.
Let me now turn it over to Terry to recap and wrap up.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> So as you can see we have a lot going on in our company both in terms of delivering improved results in the fourth quarter and looking ahead to the future.
It's not unusual for us to focus on a combination of strategy and execution at this time of year.
Ours is a company that has always embraced change and continuous improvement.
But what is different this year is the breadth and intensity of activity given disappointing results together with the exceptional opportunities we see emerging from the rapid evolution of shopping patterns and preferences in the future as well as in the real estate marketplace category.
We also know that our company must continue to change and we have done so year-after-year.
We have a clear vision of where we need to go.
We have a strong sense of urgency and we have the talent and resources to move ahead in a manner that is intelligent and is in the best interest of all shareholders as well as of our customers and our associates.
I know today's announcements are a lot to digest but you can be sure that we are well coordinated and managing each element with a holistic view for creating long-term shareholder value.
Thanks for your interest and for taking the time to understand all that we talked about today and now Karen and I are prepared to take your questions.
Thank you.
We'll go first to Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
So Terry you spoke to restoring same-store sales back to positive 2% to 3% over time.
Underlying all the noise this year what base do you think we're at today and is it fair to think about next year as sort of the stepping stone as you roll out some of these initiatives across the base? Any help on a potential bridge back to the 2% to 3% would be really helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we'll come out with our forecast for 2016 as you know as we typically do at the beginning of the fiscal year coming but it is what you've described Matt and that is we don't expect to go from our current trend and forecast for the fourth quarter into the plus 2% to 3% immediately.
All of these steps that we've described are aimed toward restoring that growth that we've seen in the past but they're going to take time.
All of these subjects are going to take some time.
So this is going to be an adjustment period.
We're going to be aggressively moving forward with the ideas that we think are working investing in our top locations; that work has already begun beginning to roll out the Backstage initiative beginning to roll out the Bluemercury initiative all these things that we've talked about.
Many are underway either planned in the planning stages or even begun to execute in some cases.
But they are going to take time to get traction.
So I think you've described it well in your question.
Great.
And then just a follow-up; Terry I'm curious your thoughts on the upcoming holiday.
Could you help break down the negative 2% to negative 3% comp forecast as we think about tourism AUR as you're reducing some of the inventory and just how you're thinking about traffic and spending behavior from the consumer this holiday? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all Matt as difficult as the 2% to 3% is it's a slight improvement versus how we have been in the third quarter.
And frankly I think part of that is the fact that we will anniversary the weakness of the international tourist business which we felt in the middle of December last year and throughout January.
But we're not expecting any major trends and change as you can tell other than that.
So I wish I could say it's going to get ice cold across the country I wish I could say that tourists are going to begin to show up and start spending but you can see in our forecast for fourth quarter we're not expecting that.
And therefore of course all retailers who are in the fashion business like us we're not selling lumber so I can't carry the lumber over to 2016 and sell it at the same price next year.
We're selling fashion apparel and so we're going to mark that inventory down.
That will be good for consumers but it will obviously put pressure on our own margins in the fourth quarter.
But our goal is to be clear about making sure that we're prepared with fresh inventory receipts coming into spring 2016 and the only way to do that is to address the markdown needs of the short – to the sales plan that we're experiencing in third quarter and will in the fourth quarter as we've forecasted.
So that's why the numbers look the way that they do in our fourth quarter forecast.
Great.
Thanks.
Best of luck and thanks for all the color.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll go next to Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
(38:06) guys have done a great job of keeping your inventories in line and I'm a little bit surprised that your comp inventories ended on such a high note.
Maybe you can just talk a little bit about why you decided – it sounds like you kind of held the line on your pricing.
Wondering why perhaps you didn't accelerate markdowns and then enter the fourth quarter a little bit cleaner? And then I have a follow-up question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I'll just start with saying that you have to shoot when the ducks are flying and they're flying in November and December.
That's when the traffic is there.
And so – clearly we talked about with the warmer weather we have build-up in inventory in all of those cold weather categories of outerwear and in boots and even the down comforter throughout the home.
But throughout the entire company we've got that issue.
You want to believe that it eventually is going to get cold and so when it does that consumers will – and traditionally they have reacted to that.
So you don't necessarily need to mark all of that inventory down.
At some point we will; but you'd like to be able to get some of that business in the higher margin and at the higher average retail early when the weather does break before you have to mark down.
You'll have to mark it down eventually because there's just too much of the inventory we predict because of what hasn't been sold in October and what we expect going forward so that's basically why you would wait on – you wouldn't take unnecessary markdowns.
On the fashion stuff you definitely would take the markdowns and we think we've done that but our lumps are clearly in the cold weather category and we'll have to address that.
Understand.
Okay.
And with regard to Backstage I'm wondering if you could talk about the learnings that you've had so far and how the initial locations are performing? It seems like taking kind of a leap forward and planning to open 50 over the next two years would suggest that you're pretty pleased with what you've seen so far.
And then with regard to the hybrid model how much selling space would you anticipate carving out from your existing mall-based store to accommodate the off-price portion of that model? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
First of all I will tell you it's still early days in the evaluation process for Backstage but our belief is that the model has certainly been proven by others.
And I think in the last – particularly the last two years to three years there has been a consumer migration to these lower price point options and so that's where we know that there's a consumer interest there.
So our belief is that there's a consumer interest there; we just need to get our share of that.
We're also seeing the younger consumer migrating to that space and with our intense focus on the Millennial consumer which we're getting inside of our Macy's stores we think this is another way to attract that younger consumer.
So it's more of a bet on the fact that the category has been proven mostly by others.
It's early days for us in our testing but we like the model.
We like what we offer.
We think we offer something different than a lot of the other guys in the off-price space have done.
And as far as the hybrid idea we haven't done it yet.
We're just getting ready to do so.
But honestly I think we've got space in the apparel floors.
So we could take somewhere between 20 000 square feet and 30 000 square feet to create a significant space for the Backstage within the store.
And I believe that lots of these stores particularly in that mid-tier performance group that are not as productive as they need to be and the way they're going to get more productive is bringing new ideas in like a LensCrafters or a Finish Line or Sunglass Hut which we've done.
But now perhaps with this hybrid model which will also allow us to bring in new categories like home décor which has been – we've tried this in the stores in the past at the Macy's stores.
It's very complicated to do on a regular basis but it's easier to do on a one-off basis of buying coat hangers and buying mirror sets and buying these other home décor items that have been successful in Backstage.
And so we think that we can create some new interest in product categories but also attract more of these younger consumers in the hybrid model.
So I'm excited about this test and what this could bring mostly to make those mid-performing stores more productive.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Joan Payson with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you.
You mentioned some of the real estate optionality around the flagships.
I was just wondering if you could talk about how much value those could ultimately unlock and how we should think about the real estate gains per year going forward.
Yes honestly I don't know the answer to that question.
We do think it's going to be a significant value creation but it is hard to predict.
So I'm sorry I can't be really helpful with that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the environment and some of the partnerships that you've been launching over time have the views or priorities around M&amp;A changed at all? I don't think so.
I mean...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes no I don't think so either.
We've said this in the past.
We look at everything that we think is reasonable in terms of its potential to add value to our overall portfolio.
But we've not made any investments in the period of 2005 when we bought The May Company which was a massive investment which we all feel very good about until we just bought Bluemercury which is a relatively small investment.
So we look at all of these ideas and our belief is that there still are other ideas out there but we're going to continue to be very very selective about M&amp;A opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Oliver Chen with Cowen and Company.
LLC</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
Terry regarding your comment on the cycle and thinking about the five years to seven years how do we think about the evolution of how you may pursue promotional strategies in this new context? And also as we look at retail and we kind of try to reconcile the low unemployment and certain gas benefits what do you think is happening with the nature of the consumer? And Karen I just had a question on vendors I was just curious on the vendor side in terms of the near-term experience what relationship you will have with the inventory positions in the gross margins? And on a longer-term basis with the vendors I think your store experience is quite different and unique in your bargaining positions so just curious about pure-play Internet and Macy's? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay so a series of questions.
First of all one of the things that you mentioned about the consumer is that the nature of the consumer is that they're – they have – at least in the first quarter they were spending in categories such as automobiles in home improvement certainly in technology and healthcare.
You could find the specific categories where the consumer was spending and that did demonstrate that there is reason to believe in the GDP forecast.
However that dropped off we all saw how that dropped off in the third quarter and yet some of those categories continued to perform.
So they have – and their savings accounts still indicate – well they're a little less than they were in second quarter they still indicate that there is money to spend if the consumer chooses to do so in the fourth quarter.
We're just waiting now to see if in fact they will.
So I think the state of the consumer is actually reasonably okay.
One of the things that I've said on a macro basis that does concern me is that we have not seen productivity in the United States improve in fact it's deteriorated somewhat while the unemployment rate continues to be very very low and it just seems that those two numbers are in a bit of a conflict with one another.
You'd think that productivity would have to increase to continue to see unemployment go down and that hasn't necessarily happened.
So that piece of macroeconomic news does concern me about the nature of the consumer longer-term but we'll have to see how that plays out in 2016 with job growth with other companies.
As far as the vendor relationships go we have very very strong relationships with our vendors.
As you indicated we are generally the largest or one of the largest customers for most of the major vendors that we do business with.
But we obviously have a close working relationship.
It's extremely important for them and for us.
And Karen mentioned this in her comments when you see some of these big designers these big vendors releasing their performance you can be sure that an important part of their overall result is directly related to their results with Macy's just because of the size of our business relationships.
So having said that there are vendors that have been highly supportive of us in difficult times I know they will be in this particular time and we're counting on that but look there's only a limit to what everybody can do in terms of assisting us through this difficult period and that's what we've got baked into our fourth quarter forecast.
LLC</span></strong> Thanks Terry.
And just a quick follow-up; so from a bigger picture perspective how do we think about promotions in a brand-appropriate way and kind of the next generation of how you think about promoting in the context of your store experience and what consumers are really looking for? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we are a promotional department store and always have been at Macy's.
So that will continue.
But I do think that there's got to be new and different and creative ways to attract customers to our business in the forms of loyalty in the forms of our Plenti program which is an alliance among many retailers that we now have 9 million people signed up or participating that can buy their gasoline at Exxon and they can buy something at AT&amp;T and they can use those accumulated points and purchase something at Macy's.
It's more of a points program as opposed to an outright discount or coupon.
I do think there will be different forms of creating the value for the consumers.
But in the end it has to fill the obvious.
And so we're working through that.
Interestingly as we've done the Backstage work there are no coupons with Backstage.
There is the price you see is the price that you get.
It's more of an obvious value approach.
We've tried everyday low price inside the Macy's store in the past with minimum success so it's not that you can just change over to an everyday low price at Macy's and assume that the customer will get that and understand that value.
In fact I think other retailers have tried that and gone away from that other department stores have tried that and gone away from that in the last few years.
So it's not that simple but I do think that there are opportunities for us to find new handles and new ways to create value for customers without the typical discount that you're used to seeing.
LLC</span></strong> Thanks Terry for the vision and thanks Karen for the real estate details.
They're really helpful.
Great.
Thanks Oliver.
We'll go next to Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Just wanted to again touch on sales.
The comments you've provided have been very helpful Karen and Terry but just wanted to dig into the weather perhaps a little bit more.
You did speak to certain seasonal categories down significantly.
Is there any color that you could help us with in terms of how coats and scarves were during the quarter; any cadence of the comp throughout the quarter particularly perhaps in the warmer weeks of early October? And just any breakthroughs or silver linings perhaps as the weathers have gotten slightly cooler over these past few weeks? Well when the weather gets cooler we do see more traffic and we have seen more sales.
So yes there's some reason to be optimistic as Terry said.
The weather will get cold.
But those businesses have been tough and obviously often you go to the store to buy the coat when it gets cold so it's impacting other categories as well because it's less traffic.
The 3.6% drop in transactions was pretty significant and was particularly tough in October.
So I do think – and that's when the weather had gotten colder last year.
So I hate complaining about the weather but in a quarter like this it's really hard not to talk about it.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it got it.
And from an expense standpoint you mentioned that the fourth quarter despite the sales drop will have dollars going higher ex the real estate asset sale.
If you can just remind us of what some of those headwinds are that you're facing this year? Obviously historically you've been able to offset sales declines with benefits in SG&amp;A and to that point you did mention in the release that you do target to reduce SG&amp;A by another $500 million over the next few years.
What are some of the areas that you think those opportunities lie in? So in terms of the fourth quarter the headwinds would be the investment in the growth initiatives that we've talked about; digital Bluemercury Backstage as well as China.
So we are investing in growth and we are obviously looking for offsets to that.
The other issue that will cause an increase in the fourth quarter is that we shifted marketing dollars from the third quarter into the fourth quarter.
And lastly we're anticipating lower asset sale gains outside of Brooklyn.
So last year in the fourth quarter we had $36.8 million of asset sale gains and this year we're expecting that to be less again excluding Brooklyn.
So those would be the big factors in the fourth quarter and as you know we're constantly looking to do better and with the sales trend we're all focused on that and as we go to look for the $500 million maybe we'll get some good news in the fourth quarter but it would be wrong for us to predict that at this point.
And in terms of the $500 million obviously it's a large number and as you know each and every year if you go back over our releases in the early part of the year we have constantly been evolving the expense structure and announcing restructurings and different ways of doing the business that has saved money.
This year it was $140 million that we decided to reinvest in growth the year before it was $100 million.
So we have stepped up the pace at which we're making changes but it's not like we don't do this on a regular basis.
When you get to a number that's as big as $500 million obviously there will be no stone unturned and we are looking across the company for opportunities to use technology perhaps to be able to do some things more efficiently that's a big area and we're looking everywhere.
And obviously we'll update you as we go.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good luck.
We'll go next to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thank you Terry and Karen for all of the great detail.
I'm wondering if you can talk about traffic.
It seems that that was the piece that really did step down in the third quarter.
Are there some strategies or initiatives that you can put in place near-term for example in the holiday season to include that traffic trend? And secondarily as you step back and look at the next one year two years three years do you have any initial thoughts on a way to evolve or update your strategies that would help to fortify that traffic number and perhaps at least stabilize it and maybe potentially start driving a positive traffic trend in your stores? Thanks.
Well as we saw with traffic soften earlier in the quarter we did begin to focus on what could we do in the fourth quarter to help the traffic.
Part of it again I hate to keep saying it relates to the weather.
But to the part we can control we have been developing strategies both in terms of our marketing for the store business and also some online specific strategies to help drive traffic.
So we are hoping to be able to impact it and also with weather we hope it will do better and obviously we're on that issue Kimberly since we saw it developing early in the quarter.
Longer-term I think in addition to always starting with product and trying to have the best most-curated most-wanted assortments we're also working on categories that we think will be particularly relevant as we go forward.
Areas like health and wellness for example.
And other product categories that we already do today how can we do those better; for example the jewelry and watch test that Terry had alluded to earlier.
The other thing I would say is there's a renewed focus on finding new customers and attracting new customers to our stores.
We will continually try to get more trips and more business from our already loyal customers but we do recognize the need to keep building a new customer base and again that relates to our Millennial customer.
So I would say that would be a big part of our traffic driving going forward.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's well said.
Great.
Thank you so much.
We'll go next to Paul Lejuez with Citigroup.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
Two questions; one on the Backstage stores just wondering if you saw any impact negative impact on the nearby Macy's stores? And then second Terry when you talk about a return to 2% to 3% comps looking out in a couple of years where do you think that share comes from? And just to be clear are you talking 2% to 3% in the core Macy's concept or do you anticipate Backstage becoming a driver to help get to that 2% to 3%? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll answer your second question first and that is that we're looking at the 2% to 3% to be all in on a comp store basis to be all in so that includes the new initiatives with Backstage and Bluemercury.
So we're clearly seeing the shift there.
I also will say that – and the other answer to your question is – to your first question is we haven't seen a deterioration in the nearby Macy's stores.
As an example we have Macy's store in Queens and literally right next door we have a Backstage store there as well and we haven't seen a negative transfer of business from the main store to the Backstage store.
So that gives us more encouragement about the possibility of putting the Backstage stores within Macy's stores when we do that test.
And so I will also say on the 2% to 3% there's going to be a growing percent of the business is going to be on our digital platform certainly related to omnichannel.
One of the complicated things about our business is that we're going to continue to aggressively support omnichannel shopping but in many cases the customer is actually looking at her phone first deciding where to go coming in to the store spending time inside the store talking with our associates maybe even trying the product on and then buying the product from us later either that day or putting it in her basket and buying it a day or two days later.
And so we don't necessarily believe that that sale would take place if they didn't have the store experience but when you look at the store impact that's a negative for the store in terms of time invested expense invested versus – and a positive for the online business who is getting the credit for the sale.
So that's why we have to continue to look at these as overall omnichannel transaction as opposed to one versus the other.
But it does create a complication for us in making sure that we understand just how many stores we need how far will the customer drive to try on this product once they've discovered it on their mobile device or their tablet device.
And so those are the kind of things that we're thinking through but we think over time that nets to more and more of the business to continue to come from digital.
And as I've said we're growing at a double digit rate and we're already the seventh largest Internet retailer in America today so more of the mix will come from purely how we calculate the way I've just described it in the online category portion of the business.
Great.
Thanks and good luck.
We'll go next to Michael Binetti with UBS.
Hey guys good morning.
Karen I know you gave a little bit of detail on the SG&amp;A plans but since the $500 million is a pretty big number it sounds like it's fairly early on.
I'm just kind of curious if you could give us a little more help on how you guys thought about building up to that number since it is a pretty large number.
Any areas – I think it's even larger than $500 million if we take your language that says it's net of growth initiatives right? Yes the intent would be it would be larger than $500 million so that it would be net of the investment in growth initiatives.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
Right.
And I will repeat what you said which is it's really too early to talk about how we will get there.
As you know though we've been pretty good at getting expense cuts once we commit to them.
Okay.
Maybe you could talk – just ask a little bit more about Backstage in particular the hybrid model.
As we look across the sector and just think a little bit higher level here we've seen lots of scenarios where retailers have gone maybe a bit too far in promotional intensity and had trouble backing up after training a consumer to expect that very heavy discount.
And Terry said you guys have been a promotional retailer for a long time and policed this in your stores and with your business but how do you think about potentially cannibalizing a full-price store – or full-price sale rather from your stores with a Backstage inside that store and what are the guardrails you look at to keep that from being a drag on the AURs longer-term? Well I think the key thing Michael is that's why we're testing.
In our model that led us to feel really good about the opportunity here we did assume some cannibalization A) because we're taking square feet away; and B) because we do think there will be some categories where customers may choose Backstage over the main Macy's.
But we think in the longer-term it may enable us to do more things in the Macy's store so there would be less overlap.
So we actually think this could be a really cool combination of concepts over time.
But in the math we have assumed cannibalization.
And we don't know.
We by the way had also assumed that the Backstage free-standing would hurt the main store and in the end that hasn't happened.
So it again is why we keep testing things because you can't – with all the analytics in the world it's very hard to predict what the customer is going to do when she's given real choices.
And so we're anxious to get these first no more than 10 stores open next year these hybrid stores and really see what happens.
Okay.
And if I could just ask one final question I apologize; I know in the past we've talked about keeping the optionality open on the off-price strategy.
Should we take the announcement today that go-it-alone is the plan for the foreseeable future and that you've looked across the landscape and don't see anything that you'd rather just acquire at this time? I think we're still evolving with our strategy.
At this point we think we're going to be opening up the 50 new stores over the next couple of years.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
We'll go next to Todd Duvick with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Karen I had a question for you with respect to your comments about keeping an investment grade rating and I understand that and appreciate it.
In the past you have had a 2.4 times to 2.7 times target leverage range and I think that also contemplated the IG rating.
So my question is at this point do you have any more details that you can give us in terms of either a target leverage range a credit rating range or if not if we can anticipate maybe a finer point on some of your comments with respect to the investment grade rating in the future? Well I think Todd what I would say is we have made what I'd call a slight change in the calculation methodology rather than a change in our leverage target.
We did update our adjusted leverage calculation to reflect the change in Moody's treatment of operating leases.
So if we calculated on the new basis our leverage target becomes 2.5 times to 2.8 times.
But again I'd characterize that as a change in calculation methodology not a change in leverage.
Okay.
And having said that for the right strategic opportunity as has always been the case we would consider moving outside of the stated range assuming we were confident we would get back within the range before too long.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just one follow-up question to that.
Commercial paper I think in the past has been a factor that you like to have but it may not be a requirement.
Can you just talk about that with respect to is that something that you continue to value? Well I think as you said you said it correctly we like to have it.
Obviously we're in the commercial paper market quite significantly right now and we think it's the right way to finance a seasonal business like our own.
Having said that if we didn't have it we do have the bank line.
So I can't tell you we need it but it certainly is an efficient way for us to finance the business given the seasonality.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking the question.
Can you speak to how you're thinking about the investment grade rating in the context of some of the real estate alternatives being explored? Should we see any proceeds directed to that paydown? Or is there room to flex the current rating to accommodate share buybacks? I think that's a version of the question that Todd just asked.
So I think the best way of saying it is that our target leverage is the 2.5 times to 2.8 times that I just talked about.
And could that vary a little? Sure.
But we do believe that Macy's needs the financial flexibility that comes with an investment grade rating.
Inc.</span></strong> I see.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Karen you executed a pretty significant balance of the share repurchase in the first three quarters of the year.
Should we expect you to back away from that a little bit until the sales variability stabilizes? Or would you think about continuing at the same pace? We believe that we have adequate liquidity to continue to buy back the stock.
Having said that I'm not predicting at what pace we'll be buying it.
Okay.
But we do have the liquidity to be able to do so.
Right.
And then given the variability that some of these large real estate transactions could cause over the coming years how do you think about the payout ratio for your dividend? Yes it's one of those subjects that the board addresses every year.
And they will continue to do so.
For this year's decision we all felt that having a competitive dividend in the range that we've been at made sense.
And again the board will continue to revise the analysis behind that.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the color and going over for questions.
Given the tougher traffic trend but solid growth online as you look at specific delivery areas are the strongest online markets the weakest in-store markets and as a corollary can you talk about how you're evaluating the right number of stores longer-term in this environment? Yes I haven't looked at that specifically Stephen but we tend to find that we do best in lines where our stores are strongest.
So I actually think they work together as we said as opposed to one cannibalizing the other.
And our store analysis will always be we look at the cash flow from operating a store given what we think the trend in sales will be over time and compare that to the opportunity of selling the store getting out of a lease doing whatever.
Understood.
That's helpful.
And then obviously we do take into consideration the math around online; for example we know that online returns will happen someplace else if you close a store.
We also know when we close a store macys.com does less well or bloomingdales.com in their context but that methodology won't change.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one other quick follow-up on – I think it was Backstage can you just talk to any difference in the packing and distribution that you've found and whether there may be any required step-up in the supply chain or investment at some point? It is a very different business particularly on the subjects you're talking about.
So should we continue to expand at this rate at some point there will need to be capital invested to help on the back of the house operation.
But at this point you can support this with your existing distribution.
At this point yes.
Okay all very helpful.
Thanks so much.
Good luck this holiday.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Laurent Vasilescu with Macquarie Capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
In terms of tourism factor it was called out that the one-year midpoint is December.
Should we expect a 100-basis point drag to the fourth quarter comp? And do you have any sense if Chinese tourists are still traveling to the U.S.
after the stock market turmoil they experienced in the summer? I can't predict how much it's going to impact us.
Our hope and expectation is that it will be better than the 1.5 points that we experienced in the third quarter.
In some countries the trend actually got worse in the third quarter so I think it's a complicated subject but our expectation is the impact will be less than the 1.5 points that we talked about.
And to your second question Chinese customers are still coming to the United States not to the degree that they had been buying last year.
I don't know specifically in terms of how many people are coming but from the sales perspective it's not as great as it had been but not one of the countries where we're seeing the biggest decline.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then lastly handbags was called out as one of the best performers last quarter; I don't think we've heard anything this quarter can you provide some color around that category? Yes it was still fine as we said the growth has slowed from what it had been historically.
But Center Core in total and handbags was still a good category it's just not as good as it had been.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
We'll go next to David Glick with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up question on real estate and understanding your decision to go down the joint venture route versus the REIT; could you conclude that the joint venture path would create more value than a REIT or was it that was the next best alternative given your objective of maintaining an investment grade rating and the REIT potentially wouldn't create enough value to allow you to do that? Well we're excited by the value we think can be created with these joint ventures or the partnerships David is I think the way I'd answer your question.
Inc.</span></strong> And then how would that value be delivered to shareholders? Should we assume buybacks or special dividends? I mean how do you see that playing out? Can't tell you that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
We'll go next to Omar Saad with Evercore ISI.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Wanted to follow up on a lot of the conversation around gross margin; you guys are thinking differently about a lot of aspects in your business.
There's obviously a lot of change with the consumer the new technologies digital a lot of shifts going on in your business (74:39).
How do you think about the gross margin model that you work with your vendors? Have you thought differently about that? Is it potentially something you would put on the table as you kind of think about the new paradigm of the consumer and in discussions with vendors is it something you'd put on the table in terms of potentially rethinking how to do it and...
I'm not sure that that is needed.
Working with our vendors to help improve the sales and profitability of the business is one of the things our merchants focus on all day long.
So yes we're always looking to work with them to improve our mutual business both in terms of sales and profitability.
Understood.
And then help us understand the dynamic around that same conversation 3Q to 4Q into the next year? Where's the tipping point? Is it really just the comp level and inventory level where there becomes a little bit of a tipping point in terms of how that burden is shared? I'm not sure I understand the question.
Well it sounds like there's a little bit more gross margin pressure expected? Oh oh oh.
Well if you think about the third quarter we had very weak sales.
As I said we're coming into the fourth quarter with excess inventory most of which or a lot of which relates to the cold weather businesses and we did not want to take the markdowns and start clearing those goods in October because it will get cold.
So it felt like we'd be taking price cuts too early and we would rather liquidate that merchandise when the customer's going to come in and want it.
So that's why the margin shift is happening between quarter three and quarter four.
Okay.
I understand.
But the conversation with vendors doesn't necessarily change around the promotionality and the markdown support? No.
No.
Got it.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Michael Exstein with Credit Suisse.
Thank you so much for taking my question and the detail that you've given us.
A couple of quick questions for Karen and Terry; number one of the $500 million that you're targeting for further reductions how much is that going to come from store closings just the natural SG&amp;A that you save there? Number two what are your expectations for credit income going forward? And number three a sort of strategic question.
Over the last 18 months the reach and breadth of Macy's as an organization has dramatically expanded; Middle East China off-price licenses in the stores.
Is it possible the organization is sort of losing focus at this stage of the game and not spending enough time on its core business? Michael let me take the first couple of questions.
At this point we're really not ready to break out the $500 million or how it will happen including the subject on credit.
Obviously the credit profitability is a function of the sales that we're getting and therefore the credit sales and profitability.
So I think we need to see the fourth quarter before I can comment on that specifically and the $500 million we'll get back to.
And remember the savings is more than $500 million; the $500 million is the net number.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Michael on the focus on the core business I can assure you that the organization is very very focused on the core business.
If the core business does not perform then all these other initiatives cannot make up the difference.
We have to perform in the core business.
But I can assure you that there is a small group of people under the leadership of Peter Sachse that are totally dedicated to these other subjects and have nothing to do with the core business and vice versa.
So we created a new organization under Peter Sachse of new business development which supervises international; he now supervises Bluemercury he supervises off-price.
So his group is totally dedicated to those businesses and there's no overlap or mixing up from the leadership of the core business.
Thank you so much for your comments.
We'll go next to Stacie Rabinowitz with Consumer Edge Research.
I had sort of a turnaround of the question you guys were talking about regarding vendors earlier.
Because so many of your vendors have been reporting weaker results than in the past are you seeing any – do you think it's an overall kind of industry at that level and for clothing issue or are you seeing some variability in performance from different brands you carry your private brands Macy's versus Bloomingdale's; anything out there? Well I think we talked about general weakness in the apparel categories.
There are areas that are doing well we talked about active juniors dresses so it's not that there's uniform weakness in apparel but there has been weakness.
And we're constantly looking to help our big vendors get better and help find new vendors that have the most-wanted products including by the way our own private brand.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And I'd like to say that you can just see it as clearly as we can just that some of these larger brands report their own results that either you believe or you don't believe that some of these big brands are going to get it right they're going to make the necessary changes they're going to get fashion components correct they're going to get the basic inventory planned properly and that they're going to respond and they're going to improve their results.
And so the business as we've said is cyclical there's no question about it but these guys that we're talking about specifically the ones that have the largest relationships with us they'll get it right it's just a matter of whether it be the first quarter or the second quarter delivery or which one will it be.
If you believe like I do that we're going to work very closely together and identify trends work with them on future deliveries we're going to get these things right then you have some confidence that both the vendors and our company will benefit from that.
Are there any small vendors in the categories where you're seeing weakness that are doing well or newer trends that are kind of outperforming the category average? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No we can't talk and that's why I'm trying to specifically stay away from names of vendors because I know that my comments as we are so important to them will influence their value of their company.
So I can't specifically talk but the answer is yes but I can't specifically name them and tell you who they are.
No that's all right.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Bob Drbul with Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Just one quick question; on the inventory levels can you just talk to any cancellations or adjustments you've made both for your branded merchandise or your private brands just around the numbers that you're reporting today like end of October numbers and just how aggressive you've been to try to get that to a better place in terms of inventory? Well I think the key thing Bob is we are always aggressive at addressing our forward-looking receipt plans and expectations category by category vendor by vendor there's not really one overall answer but whenever a business is trending better we're chasing goods and when a vendor is not doing well we're trying to figure out ways of not having too many receipts coming in so I would say this year is no different.
It's just obviously a little more extreme.
Inc.</span></strong> And I think earlier I think Terry mentioned the consumer trading down from time to time would you expect a bigger focus on some of your private brands as we look through the next several quarters? Well our private brands I wouldn't put in the category of trading down.
If you think about INC it happens to be well priced but the quality and the fashion sensibility of that product is spectacular.
And I would not call that trading down at all.
And fortunately speaking of INC it is doing quite well at this point so we feel very good about brands like that going forward.
So don't always think private brand is being trading down.
If you think about hotel in the home world doing extremely well in textiles and again it's the most expensive textile product we have on the floor.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Goodbye.
We'll go next to Larry Haverty with GAMCO.
Inc</span></strong> Yes hi Karen and Terry.
I'm just curious you guys get the best financial advice in the world and I'm worried about whether your financial advisors are briefing you on the idea that this company could essentially be bought by its dividend.
And I'll walk you through it.
The dividend right now is 3.5%.
If you gross it up for taxes it's 5.2%.
It's not too terribly difficult to do an LBO I suspect at 10% and half the financing costs would be the dividend.
So the math is just incredibly persuasive especially given the free cash flow that this company generates.
I'm wondering if within the company that's been discussed? If not why not and how in fact do you cope with it? Because the other side of it is that the economics of share repurchase as you know have just gotten absolutely compelling especially with the level of the dividend being what it is.
I think Larry all I can tell you is as you've said we have the best advisors in the world and we're looking at absolutely everything.
Inc</span></strong> Okay.
So this is not something that hasn't been considered.
Sorry was that a question? Inc</span></strong> Yes I mean that you think...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Larry...
Larry all I can tell you is we're looking at every possible opportunity and you know that.
Inc</span></strong> Thanks a lot Karen.
We'll go next to Charles Grom with Sterne Agee CRT.
Thanks a lot.
Most of my questions have been asked but just Karen and Terry bigger picture here; your comps are down a lot transactions are down a lot but you've got some company out there.
I mean Whole Foods is comping negative; there's a lot of retailers that are seeing a big deceleration in trends.
But given your breadth the type of product you sell are you seeing anything out there that tells you that we're really kind of on the impetus (85:46) of a real pullback in consumer spending something of the like that we saw back in 2008 and 2009? And the weather which obviously is an issue tourism is an issue but there's just a bigger picture problem out there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well look it's a fair question.
Someone asked me just earlier this morning is this similar to 2008 and 2009 and my answer is absolutely no.
It's not similar because then it was a crystal-clear massive pullback by consumers and we literally saw them stop shopping the day of the Lehman Brothers collapse.
The next day business dropped dramatically we just saw consumers stop spending for a strong period of time.
So this is different.
This is what we've seen a slowdown as you said in transactions particularly in this last quarter.
We also here can see that the fundamentals of the economy are in much better shape than they were in 2008 and 2009.
We can point to the tourism purchasing issue.
At some point I can't tell you if the dollar's going to change in terms of its strength in the near-term; and in fact I don't expect it will.
But over time it will adjust and that subject will improve in terms of our ability to sell more products to tourists.
At some point in time the weather will normalize.
And so when I put all of that into the way that we look at the total business potential I think you have to say we got to get through the fourth quarter it's so important it's such a big part of the overall business and when those subjects start to – the tourist subject begins to anniversary itself and the weather pattern begins to normalize and then you look at it and say there's really no improvement then I think your point could be valid but I'm not expecting that to be the case.
I am expecting there'll some improvement when those two subjects year round and normalize.
Okay.
Great.
And then just Karen just on the asset sales the $4.20 to $4.30 can you just sort of break down what you perceive to be as one-time versus recurring just so we can think about 2016 from a modeling perspective? Yes I think in terms of – I don't know that I'd call it one-time but the one thing that as you've heard me break out has been Brooklyn.
And the gain the $250 million gain.
But things like Seattle we hope to be able to replicate.
Maybe not with one transaction but as we're modeling 2016 and thinking about SG&amp;A the only transaction that we're viewing differently would be Brooklyn.
Okay.
Great.
Hang in there.
Good luck.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Can you talk a little bit about Bloomingdale's and how Bloomingdale's did relative to Macy's? And lastly the credit card penetration was up I think to 49.3% up 60 basis points.
So it's obviously showing a difference in locals versus tourists anywhere where you saw difference in locals' performance and how you think about that? Thank you.
On the credit subject Dana we are obviously very pleased with that result and I do think as you said it's a function of having less international tourists and it tends in these kinds of periods our loyal customers tend to come out more when business is weaker so I think that's also part of the proprietary credit good news.
In terms of Bloomingdale's I would say the trends are actually – have the same issues that Macy's does in fact in the international tourist business that's an even bigger impact on Bloomingdale's given where their locations are.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes I would say Dana they're similar trends but to Karen's point Bloomingdale's is even more highly penetrated in the Northeast weather issues and more highly penetrated international New York particularly as a percent of their 37 stores as opposed to Harold Square being a percent to our 750-plus Macy's stores.
But I think overall when you look at it I would say it's quite similar so there was no major difference in the more upscale consumer of Bloomingdale's than there is for the more mid-household income consumer of Macy's.
It was really the swing was more along the lines that I've just described with that international tourism and the concentration of our business in the Northeast.
Thank you.
And with no further questions in the queue I'd like to turn the call back to Karen Hoguet for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you and thank you for your patience today it was a longer than usual call.
I know there's a lot of material in the release and obviously call me call Matt Sarah Ryan (90:56) et cetera we'll try to get back to you as quickly as we can and help you with any of the details that you need help with.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> And just to know that I think we've said it loud and clear but we are going to be so and continue to be so aggressive in terms of our work to right this shift to get our business on track.
We've got a strong strong talented team here with a proven track record of success and bet on our company for the long-term and you'll be glad you did.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to Macy's Inc.
Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Karen Hoguet.
Please go ahead sir.
Great thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Macy's conference call scheduled to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings.
I'm Karen Hoguet CFO of the company.
Any transcription or other reproduction of the statements made in this call without our consent is prohibited.
A replay of the call will be available on our website www.macysinc.com beginning approximately two hours after the call concludes.
Please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website for discussion and reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures discussed this morning.
Keep in mind that all forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from the expectations and assumptions mentioned today due to a variety of factors that affect the company including the risks specified in the company's most recently filed Form 10-K and other SEC filings.
As we announced in early January we had a disappointing November/December.
Fortunately with the cold weather in the new year business did improve in January and we did better than expected at the time of our January announcement and earnings were stronger as a result.
Comp owned plus licensed sales declined 4.3% in the fourth quarter and 2.5% for the full year.
EPS on a diluted basis excluding store closing and restructuring-related charges for the quarter was $2.09 as compared to our most recent guidance of $1.85 to $1.90.
And for the full year EPS on that same basis was $3.77 down 14% from last year.
During the fourth quarter we've launched through our advisors the marketing of potential partnership and joint venture transactions for our real estate both our mall-based stores and our four flagship stores.
The demand has been very strong which is encouraging but it is premature to comment further at this point.
I will now talk about our performance in the quarter and highlight some of the bright spots in an otherwise weak quarter and year.
I will then talk about our outlook for the next few years as well as provide guidance on our key planning assumptions for 2016.
So let's start with the fourth quarter.
Sales in the quarter were $8.9 billion down 5.3% from last year.
And as I said a minute ago on a comp owned plus licensed basis sales were down 4.3%.
Similar to the third quarter we had approximately a 4% decline in the number of transactions a 1% decrease in the average unit retail and units per transaction were up about 1%.
We've talked about overall weakness in our sales and particular weakness in the cold weather businesses but we did have some categories that performed quite well in the quarter: cosmetics fragrances furniture and mattresses as well as active.
Geographically our business was strongest in the West where weather was less of a factor.
This was true both in-store and online.
Overall our Digital business continued on a very strong pace.
Digit continues to grow rapidly for purchasing but it is also becoming even more important for browsing and researching.
Best of all for us as an omni-channel retailer customers are increasingly going back and forth between digital devices and stores.
We continued to make progress this year on improving our mobile technology as well as optimizing fulfillment capabilities in the stores including utilizing our BOPS or Buying Online Pickup in Store as a great way to satisfy demand.
Unfortunately the decline in international tourist sales did not lessen during the fourth quarter and hurt our comp performance by approximately one point.
This was less of an impact than experienced in the third quarter but that is because international tourism is less important for us in the holiday period.
Bloomingdale's had a more challenging quarter than Macy's largely due to the geographic mix of locations with even heavier concentrations of tourist stores.
And for Bloomingdale's too the digital growth was strong.
Gross margin rate in the fourth quarter was 37.4% down 290 basis points from last year.
At the start of the quarter you will remember that we expected a lower than last year gross margin rate.
However our actual rate was worse than expected as a result of the weak holiday sales and our desire to start 2016 with the right inventory level.
We were pleased that we ended the year with our inventory up 1.6% or on a comp basis up 0.7%.
We took the needed markdowns to make sure that we both cleared seasonal goods and priced what was left properly for February/ March selling.
For the year as a whole the gross margin rate dropped 90 basis points versus the prior year.
SG&amp;A in the quarter was $2.2 billion down 5% from last year and as a percent of sales SG&amp;A was flat to last year.
Included in the SG&amp;A were asset sale gains of approximately $114 million.
This compares to $36 million last year.
Included in this number is $84 million associated with the Brooklyn transaction $18 million for the sale of one of our Mission Valley stores in San Diego and approximately $12 million in other miscellaneous asset sale gains.
Credit income was $280 million in the quarter up approximately $40 million over last year.
As we transitioned to our new credit system platform in the fall of 2015 we benefited from stronger-than-expected portfolio yields.
Going forward we are closely monitoring a rise in delinquency levels that could generate some increase in losses in 2016 as I'll discuss later.
SG&amp;A in the quarter also benefited from lower incentive compensation accruals and our flexing of expense with the lower sales.
So the impact of the real estate transactions stronger-than-expected credit results and other expense reductions enabled us to more than offset the increases in other expense areas and our investments in growth.
Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $270 million or $4 million higher than a year ago.
Operating income excluding store closing and restructuring-related charges was $1.1 billion down 23% from last year.
And as a percent of sales operating EBIT on this basis was 12.6% down from 15.5% last year.
In the quarter we booked $177 million of charges associated with store closings and restructuring.
$37 million of this was for additional non-cash asset impairments.
Interest expense in the quarter was $93 million.
Booked tax expense was $300 million or 35.6% of pre-tax income.
On an annual basis our effective tax rate was 36.2% flat with last year.
This is a little better than expected primarily due to state tax settlements.
The net loss attributable to the non-controlling interest which was related to our China joint venture was $1 million.
Let me remind you how the accounting for China works.
As you know we own 65% of the venture but we consolidate their financials and include 100% of the sales margin expense et cetera in our statements.
So on the P&amp;L we then break out the portion of the net income or in this case loss which Macy's does not own on this line.
Net income attributable to Macy's in the quarter was $544 million or $659 million excluding store closing and restructuring costs.
This compares to last year's $793 million or $857 million excluding similar charges and last year's make-whole premium for the early retirement of debt.
Diluted share count was 314.8 million shares in the quarter which is 10% lower than a year ago due to the $2 billion of stock repurchase during fiscal 2015.
Earnings per share on a diluted basis was $1.73 or $2.09 excluding store closings and restructuring charges and this compares to $2.44 last year on the same basis.
Cash flow from operating activities net of investing activities in 2015 was still $892 million even in a disappointing year.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2015 was just short of $2 billion $725 million below last year.
This was due primarily to lower net income.
And net cash used from investing activities was $1.1 billion $122 million higher than last year but it would've been $90 million lower excluding the Bluemercury acquisition.
As a result of the EBITDA decline our leverage ratio increased from 2.6 times last year to 3.0 times this year assuming the same 9.3 times factor for rent capitalization and excluding the debt issued in the fourth quarter which was raised to pay off 2016 maturities.
This is higher than our target range of 2.5 to 2.8 times.
As our EBITDA returns to levels achieved in recent years we expect to get this ratio back into the target range.
So let's move on to the future.
As Terry keeps telling our team a setback is a setup for a comeback and we are all focused on learning from 2015 to improve our results in 2016 and beyond.
Our long-term goals for financial performance remain unchanged.
We are still focused on achieving an annual comp sales increase of at least 2% with an EBITDA rate of 14% and an ROIC of 22% both of which we achieved in 2014.
This will not happen all in one year but we do hope that we are turning the corner as we start the new year.
And while 2015 was disappointing we did pilot some initiatives that are expected to help us in 2016 and beyond.
I'll mention just five of them.
One jewelry; as you know we tested a new approach to our fine jewelry and watch business in 2015.
It involves strengthening selling skills including changes needed to talent training and compensation; also included improved associate availability more direct supervision and a higher-quality product offering.
Fine jewelry serves as a backbone to our wedding initiative.
And based on the success of the pilot we are rolling this approach out across the country.
300 of our stores will be live this fall and the balance of our stores a year later.
Number two Last Act and Backstage; as an outgrowth of our research behind the pilot of our off-price concept as you know called Backstage we decided to test a simplified pricing approach for clearance in our apparel areas in the Macy's stores.
We took deeper price reductions on our second and third markdowns but then excluded these goods from coupons and additional discounts.
We also moved these goods to separate spaces on our apparel floors generally one in the men's and one in the women's areas.
Customer reaction was very positive; sales were higher sell-through faster and gross margin higher with very few complaints from customers about not being able to use coupons.
Based on this successful test we have already rolled this out to all of our Macy's stores.
We also opened our six pilot Backstage stores this past fall.
We continue to learn from these stores and plan to continue our testing in 2016.
In addition to these freestanding stores plus one more that we will be opening in 2016 we will be testing putting Backstage stores within approximately 15 Macy's locations.
We believe this could be an exciting way to drive traffic to our Macy's doors and to offer price points and categories for example home décor baby gear toys et cetera that we don't currently carry at Macy's.
The third initiative is our Top Door strategy.
We began executing this fall a strategy to accelerate and drive further growth in our top 150 locations.
We are working to improve all aspects of these stores from product to presentation to customer service to special events.
We want to give customers more reasons to come to these stores that are located in the best malls and freestanding locations in the country.
Four is Bluemercury.
Bluemercury has been part of the Macy's family for just under a year.
We've opened 15 new stores in 2015 after the deal closed including eight in markets where we either had no or limited market share before.
This brought the total number of locations to 77.
We also opened our first four stores within been Macy's.
These shops bring to our Macy's customers new brands as well as new services.
We are very excited about these.
We are also including the Bluemercury team along with Macy's and Bloomingdale's to strategize how to maximize the company's digital offering in beauty.
As you know we are very focused on this category as one of the company's significant growth opportunities and we are happy having Bluemercury as part of our strategy.
And fifth is mobile.
Mobile is a major priority for the company.
Sales on mobile devices more than doubled in 2015 fueled by large increases in both traffic and also conversion.
It is the fastest growing digital channel.
We think mobile first and are very focused on making both customer facing enhancements and also improvements in functionality that will ultimately further improve the customer experience.
We believe all five of these initiatives that I just talked about will help performance in 2016 but are likely to have a bigger impact in 2017 and beyond.
We are very focused on improving our execution in 2016 and at the same time we are evolving our M.O.M.
strategy to meet the needs of our changing customer and competitive environment.
I will talk about what we call M.O.M.
2.0 in a few minutes but let me first summarize our key planning assumptions for 2016.
We are assuming that are comp sales on an owned plus licensed basis will decline approximately 1% in 2016 and with the impact of the store closures this would lead to a total sales decline of approximately 2%.
It isn't though until the fourth quarter that we expect our comp owned plus licensed sales to turn positive.
We believe this to be the prudent assumption given the environment and our performance heading into the year.
We view this year to be one of resetting and rebuilding.
We are still expecting a modest increase in our EBITDA rate as a percent of sales in 2016 as we stated in our press release on January 6.
This is assumed to be driven by an increase in our gross margin rate although we don't expect the gross margin rate will get all the way back to the level achieved in 2014 all in one year.
Expense dollars are expected to be flattish to the 2015 level and as a result of the sales decline the rate as a percent of sales is assumed to increase.
We have implemented the previously announced restructuring and we've taken the other actions that will reduce expense by approximately the $400 million in 2016.
These actions that have been taken will enable us to offset increases in wages as well as the investments we are making to enhance our growth in the areas mentioned such as digital Top Doors Bluemercury Backstage and China.
Included in the SG&amp;A guidance our asset sale gains of approximately $235 million including estimated $86 million of the gain for Brooklyn.
The remainder of the Brooklyn gain is expected to be booked in 2017.
The gain for Brooklyn will be booked quarterly based on the amount of construction we complete each quarter.
We anticipate that about a quarter of that expected gain of the $86 million will be booked in the first half of the year with the other remainder in the back half of the year.
But please note that it could change by quarter and even by year based on the construction schedule.
We are also assuming approximately $150 million for gains from other asset sales.
We are not including in our guidance though any impacts from the potential transactions related to Herald Square Union Square Downtown Minneapolis Downtown Chicago or if we do a more comprehensive joint venture structure for the mall stores.
Credit profitability is expected to decline slightly in 2016 from 2015 as sales decline and the profitability of our portfolio stabilizes at a historic high rate or possibly declines slightly with higher interest rates and potentially higher delinquency trends.
Retirement related expense is assumed to decline by approximately $25 million in 2016 due primarily to a change using the full yield curve approach to estimate the service and interest costs.
Depreciation and amortization is assumed at approximately $1.07 billion based on our capital budget of $900 million for 2016.
Interest expense is assumed at approximately $365 million and our assumptions for the net loss attributable to non-controlling interest is approximately $10 million in 2016.
But know that this is hard to estimate.
Our assumed effective tax rate is 37%.
So with all of these assumptions our diluted EPS guidance is $3.80 to $3.90 as compared to the $3.77 for 2015.
As you model earnings per share by quarter the first and third quarters are assumed to be with these assumptions below 2015 levels.
As I said earlier comp sales are expected to be below a year ago in the first nine months of the year.
Also gross margin rate is assumed to decline in the first and third quarters in the first because of the lingering impact of the tough fourth quarter and in the third quarter because of the strong 2015 performance.
Also asset sale gains are expected to be lower than 2015 in these quarters although that easily could change based on the timing of transactions.
We assume that the earnings growth in the second and fourth quarters will more than offset the declines in the first and third quarters so that as you could tell from our guidance for the full year earnings per share would exceed 2015.
One more item to mention.
In 2016 we are expecting that settlement accounting relating to our retirement plans will begin to apply.
This is not included in our guidance and will be broken out as a separate line item on our P&amp;L.
This occurs in a year when lump-sum payments associated with our retirement plans exceed a materiality threshold equal to the sum of the planned service costs and interest costs.
If this threshold is exceeded there is a non-cash charge that recognizes a portion of the plans deferred unrecognized losses.
Recognition begins in the quarter in which the threshold is crossed and then continues for the remainder of the year.
Freezing our plans has lowered this threshold materially.
We are assuming that we will exceed the threshold this year due to store closings our voluntary separation program restructurings and small balance force outs in addition to our regular distribution activity.
Our current estimate is that we will have a charge in fiscal 2016 of approximately $135 million for the year with approximately $15 million booked in the first half of the year and the remaining in the back half of the year.
As I said earlier these non-cash charges are not included in guidance but I didn't want you to be surprised when you see this new line item on our P&amp;L as we go through 2016.
We also hope that by year end we will have executed some real estate transactions.
But as I said earlier it is impossible to predict what will be done when it will be done or what the financial benefit will be.
And as I mentioned earlier these transactions are not included in our guidance.
So while we are all disappointed about 2015 the team here is energized about improving the company's sales and earnings trends in 2016 as a foundation for growth in the years ahead.
We are a very competitive team and no one is thrilled about how 2015 turned out even if some of the factors of downward pressure were out of our control.
And as I quoted Terry earlier we're all believing that a setback is a setup for a comeback.
Recently about 600 senior executives including all of the Macy's district and regional store leaders as well as the heads of technology digital merchandising planning marketing and support organizations met to hear how we have refined our business strategy going into 2016.
The presentation centered on M.O.M.
which continues to be our guide.
We are evolving the meaning of M.O.M.
to coincide with where the customer is heading.
My Macy's is migrating from a focus on localization to one of personalization.
Omnichannel today means providing omni choices for our customers in stores and digital especially mobile.
And MAGIC Selling is shifting focus to new techniques for building magic connections with shoppers.
Under these redefined M.O.M.
strategies we have defined very specific initiatives for the future each driven by a team of high-performing and creative executives.
They are grouped into five buckets.
One acquire new customers and deepen loyalty.
Two win with distinctive product.
Three push the digital frontier.
Four expand through new formats.
And five create signature experiences.
The response to this refreshed direction among our senior team is very enthusiastic.
They can see that we are driving our company to where the puck is headed not to where it is or used to be.
We are thinking ahead and are confident we can return to the profitable growth trajectory you saw in the six years prior to 2015 and to the 14% EBITDA rate we posted in 2014.
Our primary focus today is on growing what we might call our core omnichannel business and meanwhile we are taking the early steps testing and learning toward longer-term growth vehicles including off-price and international.
We think you will continue to find that Macy's Inc.
is a company to watch and that we are evolving as we position ourselves to be the customer's first choice for fashion value and convenience in the years and decades ahead.
Thanks for your interest and now I'll take your questions.
Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Jeff Stein with Northcoast Research.
Okay.
Good morning Karen and thanks for all the detail this morning.
I'm wondering if you look back on the fourth quarter what factors in the company's view contributed to the sub-standard performance relative to your peer group? And what if any changes are you making to your merchandising strategy as you look to spring of 2016? And then I've got one follow up.
I think part of the fourth quarter relates to our locations being more heavily skewed towards cold weather areas where there wasn't cold weather and also our heavy reliance on tourist markets.
So I think some of it is a mix issue as opposed to our performance.
But having said that as you know we are taking responsibility for some of the performance and clearly changing things as we go forward.
I would say from a merchandising approach as we look forward I think we've talked about some of what we're doing vis-à-vis product.
I just mentioned the idea around winning with distinctive product and I think that's a big piece.
So if you think about some of the focus areas weddings health and wellness active again beauty we've talked about some of those things already.
Great.
And a question on Backstage did I hear correctly that you're only opening one store one freestanding store this year? And if that's correct were you disappointed at all with the performance of the six pilot stores? It is correct that it's one store and I wouldn't say disappointed.
We are trying to learn from these before we expand them more broadly.
And again part of the pilot is also testing in store to see where we think growth may make the most sense.
So I would say 2016 is just a continuation of the learning.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Boss of JPMorgan.
Hey Karen.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So on gross margins prior to this year the model was pretty consistent in the 40% range.
I guess what provides you the confidence in some of the recapture that you're guiding to this year versus gross margins potentially just moving structurally lower for the space? Yeah.
Again I don't expect to get back to the 2014 level all in 2016 but we do think last year 2015 was an anomaly given the weakness in sales and particularly in the fourth quarter with the seasonal categories.
I mean obviously it was an unusual weather year or at least we think it's unusual and it just caused a tremendous amount of markdowns given the sales decline.
Great.
And then just a follow up you mentioned monitoring this recent rise in credit delinquencies? I guess just any additional color on what you think some of the underlying drivers are? And have you seen any or heard about any tightening of potential approvals or any tightening in lending to potentially expect? Well one of the positives for Macy's is that with our conversion to a new system we actually have greater capabilities of granting credit.
So I think in our case the opposite will happen this year and I think that was part of the fourth quarter results that we're able to better monitor customer behavior and therefore were able to approve more new credit than we had anticipated.
Great.
Best of luck.
Thanks Matt.
Our next question comes from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning Karen.
Good Morning.
I wanted to follow up on the SG&amp;A investments that you're making maybe just some help with what the largest buckets are.
Obviously you've done a very large restructuring and cost cutting you have incremental real estate gains flowing through there so it's a lot of investment for a year where sales aren't higher.
So I was just wondering if you could just help us out with the magnitude of what those might be.
Sure.
Yeah I mean the largest increases would be in terms of the growth initiatives would be in digital.
As you heard me say that business continues to grow very rapidly.
And we not only need to invest in supporting that sales growth but also looking forward particularly as I said earlier on mobile.
So I think there's a lot of investment being made in digital growth which by the way is not all digital sales.
Part of that is omnichannel investments so the customers can easily go back and forth between stores and the Internet.
So that's the biggest chunk but also Bluemercury Backstage China which were very small numbers in 2015.
Again we're investing to grow those for the long term which I think you'd expect us to do.
So those would be where the biggest investments are.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Renato Basanta with Sterne Agee.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just wanted to talk a little bit longer term here.
So clearly some of the cost savings are a big driver of EBITDA expansion in 2016 but can you just help us think about the longer term 14% EBITDA target? Maybe if you can discuss the timeline to getting there that's sort of embedded in your plans.
And maybe talk at a high level about comp levels gross margin and SG&amp;A progression over time that sort of gets you back to that 14% rate? Well I'm not sure I can give you a specific year-by-year.
As we said this year is sort of the year for resetting and we're hoping that obviously our comp sales return to positive territory at least by 2017.
And so as that happens that helps the SG&amp;A leverage.
And depending on the sales growth obviously will have an impact on how quickly we get to the 14%.
Okay.
Thanks.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Lejuez with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey Karen.
How are you? Morning Paul.
Good.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I'm just curious on the Backstage opening I'm just curious what does it cost you open a standalone store? And what's the capital layout when you do one within a Macy's store? Also curious the amount of the comp base at base at any point to do that? So let me start with – is your question why are we opening one more? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> No.
I'm just curious the costs to open your Backstage stores on a standalone basis versus what it costs....
When you open it in-store the capital is less but there's also more cannibalization of the existing store.
So the equation is different than when you open a freestanding.
Interestingly with the freestanding stores we have found no impacts on nearby Macy's but obviously if you take 25 000 to 30 000 square feet out of a Macy's store there will be some impact on the store as you shrink the remaining store.
So it is a different calculus.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Right.
And do those stores come out of the comp base when you do one within a Macy's store? No because it's – no.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> No major disruption.
And then just curious on the store closings that were done at the end of 2015 what's your assumption for percent of sales you expect to transfer to another store or move online? Or do actually think closing those stores hurt your online business which I think you've alluded to in the past? Well it varies by market depending on the density of other stores around it.
So I can't give you a specific number but we do expect to retain some sales but probably less than what people might expect.
Dot com typically we do worse when we close a store because as I've said repeatedly this omnichannel behavior is very important for our customers and if they don't have the store to browse in or return to they often don't shop as much on macys.com.
So that's an offset in terms of the retention we get from closing the stores.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Karen.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I apologize if I missed a few of the details earlier on real estate so my first question will be to have you repeat it? Apologies for that but just the details around the $235 million guidance for 2016 I believe you mentioned about $86 million or so of it is Brooklyn.
And then could you talk about what the additional $150 million of asset sales none of that is the bigger stores is that correct? Correct.
Sounds like you heard it fine.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
I want to just clarify that.
And in terms of your Top Door strategy could you just speak to at least at this point in time how should we think about the comp performance of these stores that you are targeting now versus the rest of the store base? And how do you expect that to progress as you make some of these investments? Well as you might expect these stores are important to our sales and profit.
And so again we're hoping that they outpace the rest of the company.
Inc.</span></strong> And then just lastly in terms of the tourism impact you mentioned getting hurt by 1 point in the fourth quarter.
How do you expect that to progress over the course of 2016? We'll have to see.
I don't know at this point obviously what that's going to be.
If it continues we've been tracking it on a two-year basis so that we understand that better and we'll just have to see what transpires on that front as we get into the year.
It could continue to impact us by 1 point.
I don't expect it to be more but it is possible that that could continue to be a headwind we continue to face.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the color.
Good luck.
Our next question comes from Oliver Chen with Cowen and Company.
Karen good morning.
Thanks.
Good Morning.
Regarding next year how are you thinking about inventories in terms of how you are planning them relative to last year and what you're thinking there? And then also as you have refocused these strategies to the next level of thinking about the customer and the environment what are your thoughts on your speed and your supply chain and your relationships with vendors and how you think about discounts and allowances and just matching supply and demand as everybody gets faster and the customer gets faster too in terms of what they expect relative to when goods are shipped? I think the key thing is obviously we also are trying to get faster and working closely not only with our private brands but also with the market to make us respond quicker be more agile and make decisions faster.
So obviously our private brand group is leading the way on this obviously because we are they.
So it's easier to move faster.
But I think our vendors are responding as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
And are inventories also planned down throughout the year? Or is there a cadence in terms of potentially how you're thinking about it? We are always trying to get parity between the inventory and the comp sales level and obviously at the end of the year being up 0.7% is a little higher than what we're planning in the first quarter so we'll have to see as the year goes on.
Okay.
And we had a question on your comments about less couponing and the markdown strategy why do you think that worked strategically? Like what worked in terms of the customer really responding to this just trying to understand how you tested it (42:52)? I think what happens is customers want simplicity.
And when you are looking for deep clearance goods you could just see the price of the item and not have to do the math in your head and it's easier.
We've also segregated those goods and put them in a separate part of the floor which I think that customer is responding quite well to also.
And at the same time the parent departments look even better and our hope is that regular price selling will improve because there's just less clutter on the floor by moving this clearance merchandise into a separate area.
Thank you.
And just our last question we do think you have a competitive advantage with bricks plus clicks.
But what would you highlight as you compete against Amazon and other pure plays as your key competitive advantages in the apparel market? Well I think a lot of it is as I said is the store base and having the ability for customers to interact with us in different ways.
The second I think is our talent in the whole fashion arena from picking editing the assortments presenting it and the vendor relationships.
I think that is a huge competitive advantage to date vis-à-vis Amazon.
But I think it starts with the store base and our understanding of the fashion customer which is different.
Thanks Karen.
Best regards and thanks for all the strategy in detail.
You bet.
Thanks Oliver.
We'll take our next question from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
This is Greg Baglione on for Kimberly.
You don't sound like Kimberly.
Just a question Karen you mentioned the leverage is about 15% higher than it was last year.
Looks like cash balance is at a low since like 2008.
That in addition to some of the real estate initiatives you have going on just wondering how that may dictate the future share repurchase activity.
And then I have a quick follow-up.
Well obviously it all goes into the mix.
We do as you know want to remain an investment grade company and getting our leverage ratio back into the target area is important to us again primarily through EBITDA growth.
But all of that will factor into the buyback this year.
Great.
And then you mentioned e-commerce was strong in the fourth quarter.
I was wondering if you could talk about the margin profile of that business in the fourth quarter.
And as you think about longer-term getting back to that long-term EBITDA margin goal do you expect sort of a recovery in that margin profile of that business or...? Yes there's a misperception that digital growth comes at a lower margin.
That's not really the case.
And again there's lots of different transactions whether it's shipped from store shipped from warehouses et cetera.
But that is not a negative drag on our margins as we go forward.
We love digital growth.
We will take our next question from Joan Payson with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Could you talk a little bit about the comp guide and I guess what categories you expect improvement in? And also the composition in terms of transactions versus AUR in 2016.
Yeah I don't know how to answer that question particularly the second part of the question.
In terms of the comp just because it's – my guess is there's going to continue to be pressure on traffic.
But how that all works I just don't know how to predict.
In terms of categories for growth we do expect to keep focusing on some of the categories we've talked about before: beauty active big-ticket furniture and mattresses health and wellness in total the wedding-related businesses dresses; I mean a lot of the businesses we have been focused on so far.
I'm sure I'm missing something there so I apologize if I missed something.
And our hope is that the traffic improves as we get through the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And then given the growth of online how are you thinking about the right size of the store footprint longer-term especially after closing these 40 stores recently? Well I think the key thing is we really do believe that omnichannel is the right answer.
And so by testing things for example the Backstage in-store as a way of driving traffic some of the things that we're testing in the Top Doors in terms of incremental special appearances and makeovers and all kinds of services that we can provide in the store – we are again hoping to build on that and make our store base even stronger.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just finally we've heard this season a number of vendors beginning to talk about working to be less promotional and doing more full-priced selling going forward.
Has that changed the vendor discussion or relationship at all for you in particular? No.
We're having the same conversation.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Hey.
Thanks for taking the question.
Sticking with online how much of the double-digit growth in the channel has been driven by broadening the assortment versus turnover of existing SKUs? And as a follow-up to an earlier question how have you been approaching the profitability of online on an item basis as you have expanded the assortment? The assortment – sorry has been only expanded to more closely parallel what's in the stores so most of the growth is coming from comp categories as opposed to expansion.
Great that's helpful.
And then on mobile you mentioned that this will be a big investment.
I think you said earlier it would be for customer-facing enhancements and improved functionality.
What are some of these changes that we should be expecting? Or asked another way what are some of the key feedback you receive from customers that are directing you in those changes? Well I think a lot of it has to do with the ease of shopping when you are on a mobile device whether it be the mobile-enabled Web or on our app.
So things like a natural language search we are looking to add different filters and facets as you navigate is a big one.
Also trying to what we call optimize the purchase funnel things like adding bag to check out and all kinds of things that just cleans it up and makes it easier to use.
Is it fair to say that it's all about conversion? A lot of it is conversion.
Actually most of what I just said is but there's some other things also to help traffic.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
I'll jump back in the queue.
Best of luck.
Thanks.
We will take our next question from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Hey.
Good morning Karen.
Thanks again for all the detail on the call today.
Okay.
I'm trying to marry together two comments you made earlier.
You mentioned that you were happy with the early results you're seeing as you separate the clearance apparel to its own section and tweak the pricing strategy.
Then you said your hope would be that you would see better full-priced selling in the remaining apparel section.
Can you just talk about whether that's a trend that you are seeing early on or did you mean that that's a dynamic that's lagging so far? And if so (50:19)? No it was actually – well we had a lot of debate and when we started testing it.
I thought that regular priced selling would be much stronger because it would be easier to see.
Others thought regular-priced selling would get hurt because the clearance customer would go to this clearance area and maybe not buy the regular priced while she was shopping for clearance.
So far it goes both ways.
And there are customers like me and there's other customers and it's really offsetting.
And there's really been no impact.
So overall the results have been very positive but I'm still hopeful.
But again that's just my bias that I think that regular price may help as we go forward.
But there's been no negative either.
Okay.
Interesting.
Yes some of the vendors as Joan said I think were talking about that a little bit.
That will be interesting to see that roll forward.
It'll be very interesting and that's why you test and you learn.
And you try to just keep getting better at it.
There was one mention in the press release that sounded maybe like some of the $400 million in cost saves started in the fourth quarter.
Would you mind just talking to that $400 million of cost saves and what the pace of that looks like through the year in 2016? Yeah no.
The $400 million didn't but the cost saves that we did last year were still rolling through in the fourth quarter.
So I would say the $400 million is probably three-and-a-half quarters where we will get that savings.
For the first half of the first quarter a lot of those savings haven't completely happened yet.
But it will roll in in full force sort of mid-quarter.
Okay.
And then if I could just ask one last one.
A couple things you didn't mention is – would there be any potential benefit in the first half as you guys anniversary the West Coast port from a year ago? And then there was a bit of a blip with the buying reorg last year that caused some disruption; any chance that we see a benefit lapping that? Thanks.
Well we have factored in some improvement in the first half as a result of the receipt disruption last year with the port strike.
So we'll see if in fact that happens.
But we have thought about that.
And in terms of the impact of the restructure that was something that we believe we felt through the whole year.
So it wasn't just a first-half disruption.
Okay.
So that's minimum.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Michael Exstein with Credit Suisse.
Thanks so much for taking my question.
A couple quick ones for you Karen number one any comments on the energy markets; a couple of your competitors have called them out.
Secondly you restated inventories in the fourth quarter.
Can you give us the background on that? And finally a strategic question: what's more important to the corporation coming back to a 14% EBITDA margin or market share growth? Well in terms of the energy markets they were not as weak as the West Coast but obviously weather was less of a factor there.
So weather was a standout for us but we didn't do great in the energy markets either.
Okay.
I'm not sure what you mean on the restated inventory? The inventories on the balance sheet that you just published are slightly different than the one...
Oh last year? Yes exactly.
It was just a slight switch in our inventories between payables and inventory.
So it's not a major factor.
Okay.
And this year and last year are now restated to be the same.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then...
Your last one is a hard question.
This is one where we always try to get balance.
We do think market share and particularly comp growth is important.
But we also think doing so in a sustained profitable way with high returns is also important.
So that's where balance comes in.
I will say though without comp growth it would be very challenging to get to the 14% because of the fixed costs in the business.
So I think they have to go hand-in-hand.
Okay.
Good luck and thank you so much.
You bet.
Thanks Michael.
We'll take our next question from Omar Saad with Evercore ISI.
Thanks.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
Following up on Michael's question actually on the comp the importance of comp growth can you rank order what you see as the key factors to your comp guidance for this year getting back closer to that flattish level from the – I guess it came out to minus 3% minus 4% in 2015.
And it's okay to put weather; weather is – a seasonable winter is one of the key factors.
But just how you think about the importance of the different things needed to get back to the level.
Well again you're going from the minus 2.5% to the approximate minus 1%.
I mean I think that's the appropriate comparison.
There are lots of scenarios that get us to the guidance that we're talking about that rank things differently: tourist recovering tourist not; weather great weather not great; our strategies all hitting on all cylinders some of them not.
So I can't give you just sort of one arithmetic that got us to the guidance.
As you might imagine we look at all kinds of scenarios to get us there.
Got you.
And then if I could ask you made a comment at the very beginning of your prepared remarks about the importance – the right growing importance of browsing and researching online and mobile.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about how you're incorporating some of the learnings there into the strategy kind of the omnichannel strategy and what are the key factors? Yeah well I think the idea is – and we talked about mobile.
As that becomes more important how do we help customers get the information they need on their devices whether it be product reviews or even in some cases how to find their way through some of our bigger doors? So the better I think we make these mobile devices the more we're going to get the interaction between stores and online to help our business going forward.
Do you find that the consumer who has spent a lot of time online researching and browsing behaves differently once they are in the store? Do they...? Some do some don't.
It depends.
There's a lot of talk about people shopping and being more purposeful when they come in the store.
Others are still doing sort of the old-fashioned shopping that we used to do and often then going home and buying online.
So there really isn't one answer.
But we do find that in our categories having the store is a huge advantage whether it be to check a color check a size spend an afternoon with your friends and shop.
Or going for a service experience: a makeover for example or a special appearance.
Go you.
Thank you Karen.
That's really helpful.
We'll take our next question from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Good morning Karen.
Hi Dana.
Hi.
Could you talk a little bit at the Plenti loyalty program how that performed what you saw there? And lastly any update on private label and the initiatives for 2016? Thank you.
Yes Plenti is still early to really judge.
As you know we've got now over 11 million customers enrolled which we think is very good.
And we're beginning now to see people using their points and coming into Macy's having earned their points in other retailers.
But I think it's too early to really know how that's doing overall.
In terms of private brand obviously this is a major strategy for us and it has been historically a huge strength of the company.
And we are obviously investing to in certain categories move faster and make decisions quicker and take some of the complexity out of the processes between our merchants and our product designers; and for some of the fast-moving fashion areas to do all we can to keep taking time out of the system.
Got it.
And the Millennials floor in 34th Street looks a very good.
What are you seeing for Millennials? And will that be replicated in any of the other stores? Thank you.
It's hard to replicate Herald Square in other stores.
You're right; it looks fabulous and doing very well.
But we are taking ideas from there and putting them in other markets.
And part of it also is trying to mix experiences in with merchandise.
So I think we learn from Herald Square although you really can't replicate it per se.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from David Glick with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning Karen.
Hi David.
Inc.</span></strong> A question – one of your strategic planks is to win with distinctive product.
And I'm just wondering how that lines up with a trend that we're seeing in terms of a lot of the brands – some of which that are key for Macy's and are moving and embracing doing business with Amazon.
And obviously without being brand-specific how do you combat that? Are you looking to have a more styles more brands exclusive to Macy's? And how do you combat that along with – a lot of these brands are capitalizing on consumers' desire to use Amazon Prime? Well I think what you've heard us talk about for a long time is trying to have more exclusive products within our stores whether it be brands completely or private brands or exclusive products from some of the key vendors.
And that continues to be the case.
We also hope that our organization continues to be the best at curating these brands and continue to give the best assortments that we can.
Inc.</span></strong> And I had one follow up.
What's the share count embedded in your EPS guidance assumption for 2016? We don't give share count.
Inc.</span></strong> So – and then the buyback level? You'll have to sort through that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Good luck Karen.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Brian Callen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Good morning Karen.
Good morning.
Given some of the downward movement in credit ratings in retail and just the negative watch and outlook for Macy's can you speak to some of the balance sheet limitations as you evaluate the partnerships or JVs with real estate? And then second can we assume that your guided leverage range wouldn't be changing and the intention is not have your rating fall to Baa3/BBB- (61:38)? Yes we have stated last fall and again now being investment-grade is important to the company.
And as I mentioned our leverage ratios have fallen above – maybe the word risen above – our target range and that we are expecting with EBITDA increases to get back into our target leverage ratio range.
Okay.
And then I guess back on the I guess any limitations you're feeling as you evaluate these partnerships or JVs? Well if you are willing to take on a lot more leverage obviously that would change the dynamic.
But there is some limitation because of our belief that being a retailer is it is important to be investment grade.
Okay.
Thank you.
We have no further questions in queue at this time.
I'll now turn our conference back over to our moderator for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all for your interest.
And obviously follow up with Matt or me if you have any further questions that didn't get answered this morning.
And thanks so much.
Take care.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect.