Great day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 MasterCard Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Thelma and I will be your coordinator for today's event.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's presentation is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn today's presentation over to Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Thelma.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today either by phone or webcast for a discussion about our first quarter 2011 financial results.
With me on the call this morning are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina highlighting some key points about the business and our first quarter results we will open up the call for your questions.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at mastercard.com.
The earnings release and slide deck have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier today.
A dial-in replay of this call will be available for one week through May 10.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to our President and CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
Before Martina gets into the details of the results I thought I'd comment as usual on some operational drivers from the quarter as well as some recent business highlights.
In the first quarter we saw net revenue growth of 14.8% with essentially no real impact from foreign currency exchange rates.
We saw healthy GDV growth of 12.8% and an 18.5% increase in cross-border volume.
And all of this kind of put together helped fuel first quarter operating income growth of nearly 20% and an EPS growth of 24%.
Actually quite pleased with the solid start to 2011 delivering our second consecutive quarter of double-digit volume growth including improvement in the United States.
Outside of the United States volumes continue to grow double digit with solid increases in Europe Latin America and the Asia Middle East Africa region which is up about 20% this last one Asia Middle East Africa despite the natural disasters and political upheavals that have occurred there recently.
So in particular we're going to be watching what kind of impact these last mentioned events may have on cross-border volumes.
So far what we've seen is that some of the affected markets have experienced double-digit declines in inbound volumes.
But outbound volumes have actually jumped.
Other markets have seen related increases in inbound travel volumes markets such as the United Arab Emirates and Turkey.
These variations are normal and usually relatively short-lived following disruptive events of the type that that region has seen.
We're keeping a close eye on these developments.
Returning to the economy.
Well I think I'm really glad to see a number of positive trends across the world over the past 6 months some of which as you can imagine are reflected in our numbers.
I still remain concerned about housing prices and unemployment in the United States about food and gas price inflation around the world as well as the medium-term impact of the events I just spoke about in the Middle East and Asia.
So overall I would say I remain cautiously optimistic.
Moving briefly to U.S.
debit regulation.
I know this is of great interest to many of you but I have very little new information to report.
We as a company continue our advocacy efforts in Washington to delay or to change the Feds' proposal and will fully endorse all efforts to ensure that lawmakers have a better comprehension of the unintended consequences of the law that was passed about this time last year.
The factors that are interfering with the balance of costs paid by consumers and merchants will most likely tilt that burden towards consumers.
It will also stifle innovation as participants have less incentive to invest.
I believe this was not completely understood prior to the legislation being passed.
Also given the complexity of the issue while we were not surprised to hear Chairman Bernanke announce that the Fed would not meet the April 21 deadline we actually don't have any further insight as to when the Fed will actually release its final regulations.
In some cases this uncertainty has had very little impact on issuer decisions related to their debit portfolios.
While in other cases issuers are taking a wait-and-see attitude before making any changes.
Ultimately we will need to wait and see the reaction of all stakeholders including issuers acquirers merchants and consumers before the full impact to our industry can be measured.
Whatever happens the earliest this regulation would likely begin to impact MasterCard would be in 2012.
We will need to remain nimble and navigate our way through this.
We continue to believe that we have some potential upside to our volumes as a result of routing non-exclusivity if that were to go through.
Given that from a share perspective we have more to gain than to lose.
Meanwhile with all this going on we remain focused on executing our growth strategy so let me just highlight a few recent items.
Let's start with prepaid.
We have recently completed the acquisition of the Card Program Management operation of Travelex.
And that now clearly extends our position in the prepaid value chain; positions us for additional prepaid growth around the globe.
And speaking of Travelex under our previous agreement with them we launched Cash Passport with the IPS processing platform in South Africa and Brazil which actually is a conversion from a competitor.
In Costa Rica we launched a government benefits prepaid MasterCard program that actually is aimed at replacing check disbursements with cards creating cost efficiencies and reducing friction for the nation's principal insurance provider and beneficiaries.
In addition we finalized several other prepaid programs in Asia-Pacific Middle East Africa during the quarter including the renewal of a multicurrency prepaid card in Australia that is very popular among international travelers the first general purpose reloadable card in the UAE the first multicurrency travel prepaid card in Qatar and a public sector prepaid card in Kuwait that displaces the government-issued vouchers for the disposal of food aid.
And so while I'm talking about the Middle East I think it's worth mentioning that we’ve also done a couple of other things.
The Arab Bank Group one of the oldest banks in the Middle East has launched a MasterCard WorldCard to its top customers in Jordan UAE Qatar and Bahrain.
In Abu Dhabi we signed an exclusive debit deal with Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank one of the top 5 banks in the UAE.
And in Egypt we reached an agreement with Egypt Air to develop a debit co-brand card.
So you can see that despite the turmoil in that region we continue to get credit debit and prepaid deals done across several markets including Egypt.
And continuing with some other debit highlights I am very pleased that we have just renewed the long-term renewal actually of a Maestro debit portfolio with POS Italian one of our largest debit issuers in Europe.
We just continue to make progress with domestic processing in SEPA.
In fact domestic processing grew over 40% versus the first quarter of 2010 a bit ahead of the 30% growth we've seen over the past 2 years.
Yes we are still in small numbers.
But the fact is we continue to benefit from a number of deals that we have signed in SEPA over the past couple of years.
We're also making progress in enabling Maestro card for e-commerce use.
Over 80 million of the 300-plus million Maestro cards in Europe are now enabled and there is a growing online acceptance for Maestro.
Groupon has opened several European sites to Maestro.
In fact in only 4 months Groupon has become the largest volume e-tailer for Belgian Maestro cards and one of the top merchants for Maestro in Spain.
And we expect other e-commerce merchants to follow later this year.
In Africa we signed a co-brand deal with InterSwitch the primary domestic player in Nigeria that will convert domestic branded debit cards to co-branded InterSwitch MasterCard debit cards.
Turning to Mobile.
I mentioned last quarter that we have entered into an agreement with Airtel Africa and the Standard Chartered Banks to link subscribers’ mobile accounts to virtual MasterCard account numbers.
This functionality won the award for the Best Mobile Money Product or Solution at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona and this demonstrates this solution hits the mark in this rapidly evolving mobile payment space.
A brief update with Telefónica JV.
We continue to be in setup and hiring mode in industrial markets and will be through most of this year.
The JV has just completed a competitive process to choose its mobile payments processing solution and has selected the platform that we are building with Smart Hub from the Philippines as part of a separate partnership that we have with Smart.
This selection was based on a third-party independent evaluation which is the way we set it up for the JV which actually is a great proof point for the Smart Hub JV as it continues its own buildout not just in Latin America but also an expansion outside in other regions of the world.
Mobile is a fast-moving space for us.
We look forward to bringing you more news as we speak over the next few quarters.
So now let me turn the call over to Martina for a detailed update on our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of the deck which shows our reported results versus last year's first quarter.
Net revenue grew 14.8% to $1.5 billion.
Foreign exchange rate fluctuations had essentially no impact.
Net revenue growth was driven by increases of 12.8% in gross dollar volume on a local currency basis 18.5% in cross-border volume and 11.1% in process transactions.
Approximately 5 percentage points of net revenue growth came from pricing.
These drivers were partially offset by an increase in rebates and incentives.
This quarter the full 60% of net revenue was generated outside the U.S.
as non-U.S.
revenue growth continues to outpace growth in the United States.
Total operating expenses were up 9.4%.
This was primarily due to higher G&amp;A expenses as a result of strategic investments and the DataCash acquisition as well as higher marketing expense.
Operating income was $836 million up 19.4%.
This resulted in an operating margin for the quarter of 55.7% 2.2 percentage points higher than last year's first quarter.
The effective tax rate declined to 32.8% primarily due to the geographic mix of earnings and tax planning initiatives.
We delivered net income of $562 million up 23.6%.
Earnings per share were $4.29 on a diluted basis up 24%.
So on the next couple of slides we have the breakdown of operational metrics for the first quarter of 2011 compared to the same quarter a year ago.
Let's go on Page 4 first and here you see that worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 12.8% on a local currency basis and grew 15.2% on a U.S.
dollar converted basis to $728 billion.
This is the highest quarterly growth rate we have seen since the third quarter of 2008.
U.S.
volume growth was 5.8%.
And across the rest of the world volume growth was 16.8% on a local currency basis.
Worldwide credit volume grew 10.3% on a local currency basis which breaks down into 4.8% growth with the United States and 12.5% for the rest of the world including double-digit gains in Latin America and APMEA.
Worldwide debit volume grew 17.4% on a local currency basis.
In the U.S.
debit growth was 6.9% and it was about 28.4% for the rest of the world driven by APMEA and Europe.
Cross-border volume growth on a local currency basis was up 18.5%.
This is actually the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
This was supported by double-digit growth in just about every region including the U.S.
Turning now to Slide 5.
Process transactions were up 11.1% compared to the year-ago quarter at about $6 billion.
Process transactions continued to grow at double-digit rates in Latin America and APMEA and have turned positive in Europe for the first time in several quarters as we continue to lap the U.K.
deconversion.
The combination of the deconversions and new business continued to result in a net headwind for process transaction growth.
But excluding these factors underlying process transaction growth was about 13% a modest improvement from the growth rates we have seen in the last couple of quarters.
Recall we began to report this breakout a number of quarters ago so you could see that our underlying business remained healthy.
But as we think deconversions and new business will essentially offset each other starting with the next quarter we do not believe this breakout will be necessary going forward.
Global card growth was 4.7% to about $1.7 billion MasterCard and Maestro card.
While this continues to be led by debit card growth our credit card growth has turned positive for the first time in over 2 years.
Now let's turn to Page 6 to discuss the components of revenue and their performance relative to last year's first quarter.
First domestic assessments increased 23.2% due to increased volumes and the impact of 2010 pricing actions.
Volumes benefited from new deals that we signed over the course of the last year as well as better performance from existing customers particularly in the U.S.
and in Latin America.
Just keep in mind that the price increase that went in during April of last year has now grandfathered.
Cross-border volume fees increased by 3.6%.
Excluding the impact of the October 2010 cross-border pricing structure change these volume fees actually increased by about 21% driven primarily by cross-border volume growth in Europe and APMEA despite events in the Middle East and Asia.
Strong inbound travel to the United States also contributed to these results.
Transaction processing fees grew 15.8% driven primarily by the growth in process transactions which was due in large part to the diminishing impact of deconversions new business in the U.S.
and in Europe along with our processing win in Brazil.
As an aside revenue from our DataCash acquisition is included in 3 revenue line items: domestic assessment transaction processing fees and other revenue.
In total gross revenue increased by $230 million or 13.1%.
Rebates and incentives for the first quarter were $477 million up $37 million from the year-ago quarter.
However the increase was about $100 million or roughly 27% when adjusted for the cross-border pricing structure change.
The increase was due to the impact of new and renewed deals as well as the stronger volume performance we saw during the quarter.
Now let's turn to Page 7 for some detail on expenses.
And during the first quarter total operating expenses increased 9.4% and currency fluctuations essentially had no impact.
And within total operating expenses -- general and administrative expenses increased 7.9%.
This growth was primarily due to increased investment in support of strategic growth initiatives such as mobile e-commerce and information services as well as the inclusion of DataCash.
Advertising and marketing expense was up 12.1% mainly driven by customer-specific initiatives and support of sponsorships outside of the United States as well as by increased support of strategic priorities such as affluent.
Depreciation and amortization increased 19.3% primarily due to the acquisition of DataCash and investment and technology improvements.
Let's move to the cash flow statement and balance sheet highlights on Page 8.
So we generated $355 million in cash from operations in the first quarter.
And we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid assets -- other liquid investments of $3.9 billion repurchased about 2.6 million shares of Class A stocks during the quarter at a cost of approximately $654 million.
And through April 28 we have purchased a total of about 3.9 million shares at a cost of roughly $1 billion.
Also just a few weeks ago the board authorized the repurchase of an additional $1 billion in stock.
While we execute the first $1 billion fairly aggressively since we were blocked from being in the market last year we do not expect to execute this incremental authorization at the same pace as the first billion dollars.
Instead we plan to purchase shares on a more opportunistic basis.
Turning to Slide 9.
Let's discuss 2011.
First starting with an update of what we have seen from MasterCard processed volume for the second quarter through April 28.
Our cross-border volume grew roughly 18% globally in line with what we saw in the first quarter.
This was driven by double-digit growth in all regions.
Although not a perfect proxy for GDV total U.S.
processed volume grew 9% ahead of the levels that we saw in the first quarter.
The uptick is partially due to a much later Easter holiday as we saw higher growth in hotels and restaurants.
Higher gas prices contributed slightly.
In April total processed volume growth for the rest of the world was about 22% slightly ahead of the 20% pace that we saw in the first quarter due to continued strength across the regions.
Globally processed transaction growth was about 16% ahead of the 11% growth we saw in the first quarter.
So based on what we see now let me give you some thoughts for the full year.
While we had a really good start to the year we continue to expect the 2011 net revenue growth will be slightly higher in the second half versus the first half.
This will be partially due to the diminishing effect of the deconversion and contributions from acquisition activities but tempered by the anniversary of the April 2010 price increase.
That being said we are watching very carefully for any impact from various world events or any potential slowdown in the economic recovery.
We remain committed to our target of a minimum 50% annual operating margin and continue to target only a small operating margin expansion in 2011.
Let me remind you that our operating expenses continue to include investments in strategic areas such as e-commerce mobile prepaid commercial and information services.
It will also include the operating expenses of DataCash and the Card Program Management business that we recently bought from Travelex.
The advanced majority of the impact of these acquisitions will be felt in G&amp;A.
And there will also be an impact to depreciation and amortization which we expect to grow more than 30% versus 2010.
In total we expect DataCash to be neutral to 2011 earnings and the Travelex Program Management business to be $0.04 to $0.06 dilutive including integration expenses.
As a result the acquisitions will contribute more to operating expense growth for the full year than they will to net revenue growth.
For modeling purposes you should continue to assume a full year tax rate of 33%.
Finally we remain focused on our objective for the 2011 to 2013 period of a net revenue compounded annual growth rate of 12% to 14% a minimum annual operating margin of 50% and an earnings per share compounded annual growth rate of at least 20%.
Recall we have said that these objectives are all on a constant-currency basis and exclude acquisitions except for DataCash and Travelex.
Assuming today's foreign exchange rates for the euro and the Brazilian real hold for the balance of the year you would expect a net tailwind of about 3 percentage points to revenue -- to net revenue.
Based on the current mix of business we estimate that a $0.01 change in the U.S.
dollar to euro exchange rate has about an $11 million to $13 million annual impact to net revenue.
This is a slight increase from our previous estimate of $9 million to $11 million as euro-based revenues are growing faster on a percentage basis than U.S.
dollar revenues.
The impact to our expense line continues to be about $3 million to $4 million in the opposite direction from the revenue line impact.
And this results in an $8 million to $9 million annual impact to the operating income line.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thank you Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Operator? [Operator Instructions]  Our first question comes from the line of Bryan Keane with Credit Suisse.
I did want to ask Ajay you commented a little bit about impacts or potential impacts due to Durbin.
One of the things you said is that there could be a potential benefit from routing of non-exclusivity.
So I just want to dig down on that a little bit.
Because I remember on the last call I thought you guys made a point that multiple routing options on signature could be a negative for the industry and maybe MasterCard.
So are we specifically talking about both multiple routing options on both signature and PIN or are you trying to make a distinction there? It is actually that if there were multiple routing options on signature and PIN I remember saying that will not be a good outcome for the industry.
It will be very confusing.
That still remains the case.
It's only if the routing options that come out are somewhat simpler than that and are limited to having a non-connected PIN brand along with a signature brand one at the back one on the front on the card.
I think that is the opportunity when given our lower share of volume today that we would have a volume opportunity.
It's not clear to me how this will work out.
It's not clear to me what will eventually come out in the rules.
It's not yet clear to me what the shorter-term impact will be versus the medium term.
But I am looking out and saying just given the reality of my lower share that should give me some volume benefit over a period of time.
July 21 do you still expect the Fed to have a decision or at least some kind of decision on Durbin by then or do you think that could be postponed as well? No that's what the Fed chairman has said repeatedly that he and his team will be ready by that date.
And I expect him to be absolutely on schedule for that one.
I just don't know any more than you do.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Frisch with Morgan Stanley.
Ajay you've made several positive and strategic hires lately both the operating and the board levels.
I'm wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on your thoughts and rationale there.
What drove these changes and what we can expect over the next 12 to 18 months as you continue to accelerate your investments in growth and opportunities around the world in lots of different areas.
We've described our strategy as the strategy of trying to grow our current core businesses of credit debit prepaid commercial.
And so part of my hires are meant to reinforce our ability in those spaces both in terms of product knowledge but also in terms of local regional delivery by country and by region so that's one part of the story.
The second part of our investment has been in diversifying our revenue streams across different kinds of clients not just issuing banks but also merchants and governments and transit authorities whether it be the Social Security Administration or the government of Costa Rica as I just talked about or the Indian government or stuff of that type.
That requires a certain skill set both in terms of the product as well as the kind of selling that is required in going to a government or a transit authority as compared to a normal issuing bank partner of ours.
So that's a different kind of space and so some of the hiring is in that.
And finally a third part of our strategy has been to build out new revenue streams whether it be get back into competing in e-commerce for a fair share of growth in that booming area or whether it be to get to play to define the mobile ecosystem or it be beginning to take advantage of advisors and our very talented people there to start using the data we have to create an information services business.
In all of those I needed new talent in some ways.
So really what I'm doing is filling out the space that we needed against that grow/diversify/build strategy.
We've looked at people in the company and a number of the jobs have been filled actually internally and some have been filled by bringing in people from outside.
Martina do you want to add something on that? Yes in addition to that one facet of this strategy is obviously what we're doing from an acquisition point of view or what we're doing from partnering with other companies.
As you know with the DataCash acquisition and the Travelex and the Card Program Management business for Travelex we will be -- we have acquired great resources in terms of people to be really driving spaces in those particular arenas.
So that's just another facet of how you can do it.
And Adam the last thing I'd add is we just added a new member to our board a lady called Rima Qureshi who comes from Ericsson and hopefully brings not just global knowledge with her background and her global expertise in running a business as well as being a very active research and development scientist at Ericsson but also brings direct let's say domain expertise in the mobile space.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Willi with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Another question around mobile.
If you think around the emerging markets in the international growth Ajay I was wondering if you could just sort of talk about sort of thinking between the actual consumer application of mobile and making a payment versus the impact of the terminalization of these emerging and growing markets.
And if you sort of said 2 or 3 years ago we would expect a growth curve of merchant acceptance points growing at a certain rate.
With all that's happened on mobile and the speed of the development there do you feel like that curve of merchant acceptance has potentially moved to a steeper climb and more rapid terminalization over time to drive the availability of card payment options for consumers? So Tim there are 2 angles to this.
One angle is in the emerging markets given the current absence of terminals that would accept something to do with the mobile phone it's not -- I'm not sure that the mobile payment system ecosystem in those markets was developed the same way as it might in a somewhat more advantaged country that has better terminalization in place.
Mind you having said that contactless terminalization is still relatively small even in the United States and in developed countries.
But whether mobile payments develop and I've said this earlier as a contactless based system or the SMS based money movement system or as a true mobile commerce-enabled system with the rapid deployment of smart phones in the world I think that some version of all 3 will begin to develop.
Now what we are trying to do is to place bets in all 3 and to be partners with institutions banks and phone companies and merchants in all 3 spaces.
Now will this lead to a more rapid expansion of terminalization? In the sense that if this is part of how you get cash to convert particularly small ticket cash to convert to electronic payments a CAP [Chip Authentication Program] payments a newspaper bought somewhere a transit payment somewhere yes I think it will drive terminalization faster.
But lots of what needs to happen for that to happen.
The cost of those terminals needs to become somewhat cheaper.
The fact that if you could find intelligent ways to make that terminal more easy for a small merchant to adapt to that would help us out.
So there's a lot of work to be done in this ecosystem yet.
The one angle is to get the issuers and the phone companies and all of us aligned.
The other angle is to get terminalization so that the consumers can actually get their money out at the other end or use their phone sensibly at the other end.
So I think you'll see a lot of energy going into that space.
But I don't know that it’ll happen in 6 months or 1 year compared to 2 years or 3 years.
I don't know the answer to that yet.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Maurer with CLSA.
I wanted to ask Ajay your thoughts on the global economy and how recovery is shaping up.
I mean we've got some data out of Hong Kong this morning talking about total retail sales up 26%.
But that the high end was up 54% which is dramatic acceleration over the last 3 months.
I mean is the recovery that you're seeing outside the U.S.
very similar to what has happened in the U.S.
where the haves are dramatically outspending the have-nots in terms of growth? And also if Martina could just comment are there any seasonal aspects or sponsorship aspects to the marketing line that we should think about for the rest of the year? Craig I'm going to answer you the M&amp;A cadence first.
We have some very smart seasonal aspects to the sponsorship activity.
But maybe it's a little bit more helpful if I can just sketch out for you how we see the rest of the year developing.
You saw 12.1% increase in the first quarter numbers.
I think for the second and the third quarter you should also be expecting to see some increases mainly in the neighborhood of around 10 percentage points versus last year.
And then in the fourth quarter you probably should see a number maybe slightly below of what we have been spending in the last fourth quarter of 2010.
So hopefully that's helpful for your model.
And Craig on the first question.
In the U.S.
you would expect that when you have a recovery from the kind of difficult circumstances you've been through that if recovery were to be sustained you would expect that in the beginning it would be the more affluent that would come back into the spending circumstance.
Think of the stock market going back up again.
Think of asset prices and think of the affluent therefore getting back to feeling that their space and their world is improving again.
Think of big companies and manufacturing recovering in the United States and you'll think of the owners of those companies and the well-placed executives in those and you'd find that their recovery would spark their spending first.
But hopefully as this recovery starts spreading you will get back to the mass of consumers in the United States coming back into spending.
You can see that in the Fed report recently banks have become more open with their lending standards again in an effort to: one revise that portion of the market; but two it reflects their relative comfort of their capital position compared to where they were let's say a year ago.
And so it's going to take some time.
But I believe it starts from the affluent.
But it really spreads through the middle class and that's where it gets its bedrock.
I think overseas in Asia and Latin America it's a little different.
They didn't go through the same let's say financial turmoil in exactly the same way that we did in the United States.
And to that extent I think their affluent classes have actually had a relatively good run over the last few years.
And the recovery in property prices and the recovery in the global commodity price system and stock price system has generated an enormous amount of wealth in those markets.
And that's the spend you're seeing.
I used to live in Hong Kong ‘til 2 years ago.
Even 2 years ago in the midst of the economic crisis from a developed world I would tell you the kind of expenditure patterns I saw in Hong Kong were remarkable.
And so Hong Kong is what it is with the prices of everything from jewelry to wine to Christie's auctions that's Hong Kong.
I'm not sure that you should extrapolate from Hong Kong for the rest of the let's say newer developing world.
Hong Kong is truly a little different from some of the others.
But I’d say as we go along with a little bit of luck to back to what I've said if the economic recovery is sustained then I think you'll see a broader middle class spend coming in.
But there are lots of factors that go against it.
Martina? Craig the one thing that we are really watching very carefully and Ajay said it in his opening remarks are food and gas prices inflation in general.
While at the moment we are really seeing no impact other than some positive impact from a spending point of view from a volume point of view on our volume over the long term the inflation could be crowding out other discretionary purchases that people can be making.
So that is one thing that we all need to be very focused on.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> You laid out a number of different investment initiatives globally from prepaid to mobile et cetera SEPA too.
Is there a point at which you start to look at the investment spend in aggregate both acquisition and sort of organic investment in new initiatives and you start to evaluate ROI? And for those of us on the outside looking in when do those investments start to move the needle top and bottom line? How should we be thinking about them? Andrew let me start.
First of all we are looking at all of our investments together.
We don't just look at individual investments and then just add it up.
We really look at everything that we need to be doing in certain spaces.
We look at the specific business cases.
We look at return on investments.
But the one thing that we always try to do is we try to make sure that we have some short-term investments that give us shorter-term returns.
We look at some medium-type investments that the returns might come over a 2- 3-year period.
And we're doing some longer-term investments.
And you could put for instance the mobile activities in there from a longer-term point of view that are returning or that we think will be returning profits over the longer term and that's probably beyond the 3-year period.
So from a spending point of view we are very critically evaluating it every step of the way how we do these kind of things.
But let me just give you some examples from a shorter-term point of view.
We are hoping to have the return come fairly quickly.
But when you look at it a quarterly basis there might be some pain that we have in the meantime.
So look at our acquisitions for instance.
Look at DataCash right.
We said DataCash to the bottom line in 2011 will not rise the bottom line at this point in time.
When in fact you're looking at the first quarter DataCash contributed about 1.5 percentage points to our 14.8% revenue growth.
And it contributed about 3 percentage points to our 9.4% operating expenses.
So you can see that there's already a little bit of pain that we have to endure from a shorter perspective on a particular acquisition.
And based on what the comment we made from Travelex with the $0.04 to $0.06 dilution in 2011 starting in the second quarter since we just closed the transaction you will see a little bit pain there.
That's why we're saying what we're saying from an operating expense point of view as well as from an operating margin point of view.
The only thing I'd add is I continue to believe that with so much of the world's transactions being in cash and check investing some of our capacity to invest in trying to accelerate our position in those places makes a lot of sense.
We've been fortunate to have a company with a business model and with a revenue to expense ratio that gives us the opportunity to put some money back.
But every single investment inside the company is pretty let's say let's call it hotly debated before it reaches the ability to spend money.
And Martina is part of that hot debate process.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache with Macquarie.
Ajay you mentioned a solution that you Airtel Africa and Standard Chartered Bank created that won the GSMA Award.
I wonder whether you could comment on whether financial inclusion initiatives like these help to better position you with regulators in emerging markets around the world relative to more developed markets like the U.S.
given that you're effectively helping to bring the unbanked into the financial mainstream.
And then separately can you give us an update on the unique identification program in India and how long it will take before we start seeing some transaction volume as a result of this? Sure.
Working with governments in some of the developing countries in the newer growth countries is actually a very important thing to do both for purposes of our positioning with regulators but even more so for actually getting into the business model that will develop in those markets.
So it's kind of a two-way thing.
I don't think we have a choice if we want to grow in those markets and if we see the ability to convert cash to electronic payments in those markets as a very sizable opportunity then we must do some of these things in a smart and sensible way.
So I think working with financial inclusion in those markets -- frankly I think working on financial inclusion even in the United States is the right thing to do where 45-odd million people -- people estimate.
I don't know if the number is right.
It could be off by a few.
But 45-odd million people do not have access to full banking.
And if all the implications at Durbin come through who knows that number may actually increase if retail bank accounts end up getting fees of a certain volume.
So I see opportunity in that entire space both from a business perspective but also from the right kind of image for our company locally.
I want consumers to choose what we do with our banks and our merchants because of our offering the right solution for them.
And so if there are people who need financial inclusion you've got to find the right fix for them.
That's one part of the answer.
The unique identifier project in India I was in India just a couple of weeks back and met with the authority again.
We're at an active stage right now as we demonstrated to them that we have adapted and improved our technology to allow issuing banks to be able to connect the 12-digit number issued by the UID authority with a 16-digit number that we would use with the banks.
That ability to connect that through biometrics as a way of authenticating the transaction is what we are demonstrating.
And in another month or 2 we will actually demonstrate not only the authentication but declaring and settlement of that transaction with the UID and some partner banks on the ground.
The UID authority is in the process of issuing these identifications.
It's a fairly complicated process.
They've got centers set up and people come in to give their biometrics and then a card gets issued.
That card is still not payment-enabled.
So the whole steps and series here.
I actually believe that it could well be another year or so before it starts translating into a real few transaction numbers.
Remember the acceptance system also has to be built at the other end for those biometrics to be used for merchants.
So there's a lot of work to be done here.
And I'm kind of -- my view of this is a bit to the earlier question being enrolled in what that government is trying to do.
They're trying to reduce cash trying to reduce inefficiency trying to reduce leakage of subsidies in the system and we want to be a partner of theirs in that process.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Kissane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Martina you sketched out marketing expense.
Is it possible for you to sketch out pricing and rebates incentives for the balance of the year? Okay Jim.
Somebody had to ask right? So you are the one.
On the pricing side the only thing that I can really tell you which I said already in my prepared remarks is that obviously the April 2010 price increase has anniversaried in April.
So you're not going to expect to take that going forward.
And we also said that over the 2011 to 2013 period we have included very little pricing going forward.
So that should give you a little bit of help for the rest of the year.
From a rebates and incentive point of view we typically don't give any kind of guidance on that.
Last year was a little bit of an external ordinary period simply because of all the things we had going on in the rebates and incentive line including the change from a pricing point of view.
You should just expect us to continue to go hard after new agreements and we will renew all of our agreements so you should expect another busy period this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> My housekeeping question is I was wondering where you stand on providing us updated Maestro data? And I guess the second question is just that acceleration in U.S.
credit card volume growth I was wondering what was driving that trend.
Is it a focus by your customers on the transactor-type customer or is it same customer volume growth? Sanjay let me take your housekeeping item first.
Yes we're trying to get our head around whether or not to put Maestro data out in the market.
And we’ve just done quite a bit of analysis.
And in the end we actually concluded that based of the analysis if you put out the data in the market it really does not explain our revenues drivers any better than what we have.
And let me just explain to you why.
First of all those fees that we're getting from domestic assessment revenues half of those are actually driven by card fees or other non volume-related fees.
So if you want to relate it to volume half of them just don't relate to volume and so you just don't have a very good explanation from a driver point of view.
The other thing is from a cross-border point of view as you know quite a bit of our Maestro fees do come from cross-border transactions.
However the volume of those cross-border transactions compared to total volume is extremely small.
And then it's further complicated by that most of those come from the intra-Europe transactions which have lower pricing as you know than cards being used outside of Europe.
And then lastly we do still deal with some data inconsistency and particularly in countries where we do not have volume-driven fees and the volume does not get reported to us.
However the one thing that we do have and we always had in there is Maestro transactions.
Any Maestro transactions that we transport over our network are in that process transaction count.
And I think that's actually the best way to look at Maestro simply because it's also over time -- and as Ajay said in his prepared remarks it will take some time.
But over time you will see some impact from all the great works that our people in Europe do on SEPA.
So I think that's where we are leaving it at this point in time.
So as far as your question on U.S.
credit volume is concerned I've said that 2 or 3 things inside there.
The first one is remember we've also got now some trusts some business coming in there.
Remember that we've got some recovery in the market with most of the banks being willing to go back and look for credit accounts.
But the fact is we aren't seeing as yet a huge drop in the number of credit accounts.
In fact in the first quarter the number of accounts for us still decline by a very small percentage in the United States.
But it sort of -- let's say the decline -- the rate of decline has reduced somewhat.
So I don't know that the answer has anything to do with accounts.
I think it has just to do with the consumer being willing to spend and use their credit lines and their cards.
That's truly what's going on.
There has been a good recovery in cross-border in the United States both coming in and going out and I think that's part of it.
Promotional cards on the other hand are actually going well and that’s yet another aspect of the business.
Our next question comes from Moshe Katri with Cowen.
LLC</strong> Martina in terms of the impact of contract renewals and rebates for the remainder of the year are we talking about an unusual number of contract renewals here versus 2012? 2012 or 2010? I didn't know what you were asking – but no from a renewal point of view what I'm looking at is a similar active year as in 2010.
The only thing that we are still watching out for is as Ajay had already said from a Durbin point of view with some issuers are taking business forward as usual and they're getting their head around it.
And for some issuers they will be waiting a little bit until the final regulations are known.
But generally across the world – and you know now 60% of our revenues come outside of the United States.
We are on the ground and there's a lot of activity going on so I expect that 2011 will be a similarly active year like 2010.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom McCrohan with Janney Capital Markets.
Martina just wanted an update on gas prices.
They’ll certainly probably provide some benefits this quarter.
Can you give us an update on how payment volumes and net revenue growth were impacted by fuel inflation? Sure.
Gas prices did help a little bit in terms of driving.
I have to tell you it helped slightly okay to drive the volume and the transaction.
From a volume point of view it's now about 8% just about 8% of volume and it’s just slightly over 15% from a transaction point of view.
So it moved the needle just a little bit and you can see from an average ticket point of view it also went up just very slightly.
Our next question comes from the line of Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Just quickly on the specialty.
Just on the discussions with the banks maybe Ajay if you could just give us some sense on whether the banks are at this point at all indicating that they want to bundle discussions potentially on credit and debit as you sort of think about a post-Durbin post-Card Act world and just help us walk through what you guys are hearing from the banks directly and maybe any sense from you guys on what you're thinking around some of the mitigation strategies might be.
Obviously new products and things like that are going to help but any sense there in terms of how the banks are talking to you guys and are they bundling credit or debit at this point? Your question’s a very deep question.
And I haven't yet seen bundling of debit and credit discussions.
Although remember that the way banks operate those 2 businesses tend to be in somewhat different business lines inside and they're answering different consumer needs in many ways.
So I don't know that that actually will lead to a bundling in some way other than with maybe a few very large global accounts where that kind of conversation may happen.
This fee it's early -- it's very very difficult to talk about what banks are planning to do with Durbin just because in the last couple of months given all the progress on trying to get the bill on the floor of Congress the focus has been around that.
At the same time within our company is with all the issuing organizations.
There are teams of people working on different scenarios to do with where this could end up.
My sense is that some of it is pretty much out there in the open that the level if it were to go through the way it was originally proposed the level of let's say revenue going away from issuer revenue lines is so large that they're going to have to find ways to get back some of that.
And that's the experience we had in Australia whether it be through fees on checking accounts or fees on cards or restricted expenditure on debit cards of certain types or the stoppage of rewards on debit cards or the disincenting of employees in branches to sell debit cards all of which might lead to a somewhat different way of consumer spending maybe more on their credit line.
It might also lead to a number of consumers not being able to afford their banking accounts with as much ease as they used to and that may lead to a prepaid card getting more and more attention and issuers as a way to cater to that customer.
So at the lower end of the spectrum you know what I mean? So from credit on one end to paper at the lower end to the actual impact on debit then think within debit it's unclear to me right now whether signature and PIN will be here the way they used to.
It's unclear to me whether merchants will be incented to put in more PIN pads or not if the -- if the discount rate on the 2 is the same.
It's unclear to me therefore how merchants will behave in this.
And so there are so many imponderables that what we've got is a series of different let's say situations and our operating system within those.
And that's what we're doing and it's like a whole laundry list of things that are going on inside our company and inside our competitors I'm sure and inside issuing banks.
That's kind of where it is.
At this time our next question comes from the line of David Togut with Evercore Partners.
I apologize if this question was asked.
I was joining late from another call.
But Ajay have you had any conversations with the Federal Reserve with respect to their leanings on network non-exclusivity alternative a versus alternative b? No I haven't actually.
Because if you remember during the comment period they had no conversations whatsoever.
And they're still now working through figuring it out because I am not going to have any direct conversation with them after the original discussions that have been happening.
However people in different organizations ours and others have I'm sure in the last couple of weeks been engaged in those conversations.
But we have no way of knowing what's in their mind.
This concludes our time for questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Barbara for closing remarks.
Ajay do you have something you’d like to add at the end? Just a few closing thoughts.
As we have said Martina and I we're off to a really good start for 2011.
We kind of remain positive about our ability to deliver on those longer-term financial objectives that she reminded you about.
But we are very cognizant of 2011 not being without its challenges.
First and foremost there is the impact of those natural disasters and political upheaval that we’ve just got to continue to keep an eye on.
Secondly while there are a number of positive signs in the economy we continue to watch the economy very carefully given concerns that remain around unemployment and the housing market in the United States and as Martina reminded you around food and oil prices around the globe.
And of course we've got to keep working our way through the ultimate impact of this U.S.
debit regulation which will depend both on the final regulation the outcome of the bill what the Fed said and of the reactions of all the stakeholders.
As we've said and as Martina said we are going to continue to invest in our business.
This is part of the execution of our strategy to differentiate MasterCard and position the company to capture more than its fair share of growth.
We have made several significant steps recently including the acquisition of Travelex's Card Program Management assets and DataCash as well as we've established for some JVs mostly in the mobile payment space.
We look forward to communicating more such developments in the future.
Thank you for your time today and thank you for your faith in our company.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
That concludes the presentation.
You are free to disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 MasterCard Earnings Call.
My name is Modesta and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Modesta.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today either by phone or webcast for a discussion about our second quarter 2011 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer; and Chris McWilton President of the U.S.
Market.
Following comments from Ajay Chris and Martina we will open up the call for your questions.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website mastercard.com.
The earnings release and slide deck have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A dial-in replay of this call will be available for 1 week through August 10.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to our President and CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
As usual Martina will get into the details of our results but let me just start with some high-level comments.
In the second quarter we saw net revenue growth of 22.1% 18% actually on a constant currency basis driven by hiking growth rates and GDV cross-border volume and process transactions.
This help fuel operating income growth of 23.3% net income growth of 32.8% and an EPS growth of 36.4%.
So we delivered another quarter with strong results including record quarterly GDV over $800 billion and our third consecutive quarter of double-digit volume growth.
Within our geographies the strongest growth remained in Latin America and the Asia-Pacific Middle East Africa region.
In Europe consumers continue to spend domestically and abroad.
In the United States we posted our strongest quarterly volume growth since the fourth quarter of 2007.
This was led by Debit which is benefiting from the roll-on of new business wins as well as continued strength in promotional credit.
Consumer credit growth in the United States remains positive and was up slightly over the first quarter but year-on-year is strong as either of debit or commercial credit.
On the other side of the strong growth is what we are all seeing in the global economy.
In Europe consumer sentiment is lower than it has been in recent months again not surprising given the sovereign debt issues and concerns around the economic growth that persists in sovereign markets in Europe.
And of course we have our own issues here in the U.S.
The economic signals remain mixed unemployment remains above 9% the housing market remains relatively weak both are likely contributing to consumer sentiment in the United States being at its lowest level in 2 years.
Our SpendingPulse data shows that retail sales growth x auto and gas has remained above 6% over the last 4 months including July.
However much of this increase is likely driven by inflation given persistently higher prices for gas and other commodities And of course in addition easier year-over-year comparisons might be fueling some of this percentage growth given the significant slowdown in spending we saw during the summer months of last year.
Latin America and Asia on the other hand seem to have a brighter picture both in terms of economic performance and consumer sentiment.
But even there given the nature of the global economy the second half of the year could well be more measured than the first half in terms of economic indicators.
Overall it feels like the global economy is still struggling to get back on solid footing.
But as I said earlier consumer spending appears to be holding up through this volatility.
With this as a backdrop we remain cautiously optimistic about our business.
I'm sure that you're all keen to hear about the debit business so we've got Chris McWilton the President of our U.S.
region to talk to you.
Chris? Thank you Ajay.
A little déjà vu.
It's been awhile since I've been on an earnings call but good to be with you on the phone today.
Be careful what you wish for.
Over the last several quarters the Durbin Amendment and its potential impact on our business and our customers has been top of mind for us and I'm sure many of you on the phone today.
With the Fed issuing its final rule in late June there's now greater clarity and we're moving forward with our strategy based on scenario planning and making the necessary operational changes.
I really doubt we'll be able to answer all of your questions on today's call because there's still a lot of moving pieces that need to play out.
But I think it's important to share with you what we can today.
The exclusivity provisions of the Durbin Amendment were designed to provide merchants with the ability to direct the routing of debit transactions over competing networks.
Therefore it is not surprising that large merchants are looking for incentives from the networks for routing preference.
At the same time acquirers for smaller merchants see themselves as directing routing to debit networks when there are multiple PIN marks on the card.
They too are seeking incentives for routing.
And finally issuers are looking to reduce the cost complexity and uncertainty of maintaining multiple PIN network functionality on their debit cards.
They will need to decide whether they put 1 exclusive PIN mark on their cards or maintain multiple marks.
We're confident that the superior value proposition our PIN debit offering brings will result in more U.S.
debit cards with our mark in them.
Remember that Maestro is the only globally interoperable PIN POS network accepted at more locations globally than any other brand.
Until those PIN mark decisions are made it is difficult for anyone to predict what kind of PIN debit shares shifts might occur among the networks.
It is also tough to know how rebate and incentive structures might change until there's more clarity around routing decisions.
The battle lines over routing are still unfolding being the smaller player in U.S.
Debit MasterCard is in a completely different competitive situation.
Ours is one of potential upside not the need to defend a large incumbent position.
As a result we will be looking at strategic surgical opportunities with issuers acquirers and merchants to incent new PIN enablement on cards as well as routing to our network.
Our final pricing approach will be dependent on how much we win on the back of the card and in what form exclusive for multiple marks.
Therefore a deal-specific approach is needed to give us the flexibility to navigate all the complexities.
For competitive reasons we cannot expand further on the details right now.
In addition we have made some initial decisions to help customers with a new reality of these rules.
We recently informed our issuers that we will implement a 2-tiered interchange structure across both debit and prepaid products for issuers above and below the $10 billion asset level.
We continue to work through the operational details of the structure and will be working with issuers and acquirers to implement the necessary changes prior to October 1.
A potential risk that investors often ask me about is related to the issuer debit pricing going forward.
It didn't take the Durbin Amendment to create a competitive pricing environment it existed long before that and expect that it would've continued even without the new regulations.
As you know under the final Fed regs network processing fees are not regulated but are now included in the debit interchange calculations.
So any impact on network processing fees for debit will ultimately flow back to the calculation of the interchange rate which should provide some moderation in issuers thinking about network pricing.
We will work to help our customers and consumers recognize the superior value of MasterCard's PIN debit offering by continuing to innovate product features and functionality that will allow our customers flexibility to both control their cost and generate incremental revenue.
Last September at our Investor Day I told you that I was confident that whatever the final outcome of the Durbin Amendment it would present MasterCard with net opportunities to grow its U.S.
Debit business and I continue to feel that way.
As we only have about a 9% share of PIN debit transactions today we continue to believe the exclusivity provisions of the Durbin Amendment providing net opportunity for us.
The pending decisions by issuers merchants and acquirers will influence routing and also ultimately determine how much opportunity we have.
However please remember that PIN debit economics pre-Durbin were quite thin and will become even thinner after paying routing incentives.
As a result volume growth rates will exceed revenue growth rates as the space unfolds.
Let me also take a minute to remind you that lower revenue yield does not necessarily equal lower operating margin.
Given the scalability of our network we are able to process additional transactions at a very low incremental cost.
We will be strategic and selective when considering situations where we're willing to pay enhanced economics for routing.
Let me hand the call back to Ajay now for the business highlights discussion.
Ajay? Thanks Chris.
So while all of this going on in the U.S.
we remain focused on executing our growth strategy around the rest of the world.
That's why I'll take a moment to highlight a few recent news items.
Let's start with Prepaid.
So early in the second quarter as you know we've completed the acquisition of the Card Program Management business of Travelex which we are now bring in Access Prepaid worldwide.
But of course we are in the midst of converting non- MasterCard branded portfolios in their book.
But in addition I'm pleased to say we have signed our first new access prepaid deal since the close it's for Ryanair Europe's leading low-cost airline.
We will be the Prepaid Card Program manager in 5 markets with issuance beginning this year itself.
In the U.S.
we launched 2 MasterCard general-purpose reloadable card programs into Walmart's 3 500 U.S.
stores.
The program is based from consumer insights from targeting that we actually brought proactively to Walmart.
In the spring with our partner at SunTrust we'll launch the SunTrust Campus card.
This integrate is 2 ID card with a MasterCard reloadable Prepaid Card.
Another example the Turkish Post Office which is one of the largest government institutions that performed financial services has now signed a contract with us to issue cobranded credit debit and prepaid cards under the MasterCard and Maestro brands.
Also during the second quarter we signed a new multi-product agreement with Swedbank one of the largest issuers in the Nordics and Baltics region.
The Debit MasterCard portion of this agreement will significantly increase our Debit footprint in this region where the Debit category is growing 4x faster than Credit.
The agreement does include commercial and consumer credit as well and we expect the results of the deal to show up in the market early next year.
In South Africa Absa one of the country's largest banks has begun to convert 2 portfolios to World MasterCard the first of an affluent credit portfolio and a pillar of Absa's affluent banking strategy and the second is actually fairly interesting it's the conversion of its Islamic-compliant debit card to World Debit MasterCard the first of its kind in the region.
We have a couple of new deals in our Commercial business as well.
While we signed at HSBC for the 2012 launch of a commercial card offering for businesses with operations across Continental Europe.
In Latin America we launched 2 small business commercial card programs with Banco de Bogotá whose commercial programs have actually been exclusively with a competitive bank.
Turning to mobile we are making traction in key markets around the world as we look to help define what the ecosystems look like in these markets.
In Turkey Turkcell and Yapi Kredi have launched a mobile world of service with MasterCard PayPass and consumers can basically just exchange their SIM cards for NFC-enabled cards.
And of course we continue to build PayPass acceptance in Turkey where the largest acquirers has now enabled their terminals at thousands of locations to accept PayPass.
In mid-May Barclaycard and Orange launched their first commercially available NFC enabled for the U.K.
as powered by MasterCard PayPass is currently available for purchase by consumers at retail outlets of Orange.
In the U.S.
as you've heard we are partnering with Google Citi Sprint and First Data in the development of the Google Wallet the Wallet will come preloaded with a Mastercard Prepaid Card and initially Citibank cardholders will be able to load that PayPass enabled credit cards into the Wallet.
Also in the U.S.
Isis the JV created by the major U.S.
telcos has announced that it is opening its efforts to include all the major payment networks and as I said earlier we believe this was a critical step in the future success of Isis.
Open systems allow for the required scale in this space.
For this effort and for the others we're actually excited about the capability that MasterCard can bring to bear.
Finally last example in June we signed the first broad commercial agreement stemming from our MOU with China UnionPay.
The agreement will equip the MasterCard payment gateway with the ability to process e-commerce transactions made with CUP cards.
[ph] And also we've extended our MOU with CUP for another 4 years and as we're quite pleased to be working closely with them for nondomestic transactions.
And as you know as an example the core brand deals in China that we have talked about in previous earnings calls are helping to drive cross-border volume growth when cardholders travel outside of China.
So with those examples let me turn the call over to Martina for a detailed update of our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina? Thank you Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of the deck which shows our reported results versus last year's second quarter.
As you just heard we had a terrific quarter.
Net revenue grew over 22% driven by very strong volume and transaction growth across our base business as well as the addition of new deals.
Acquisitions contributed about 3 percentage points to this growth resulting in a very robust top line growth rate of 19% excluding acquisitions.
Total operating expenses were up 20.8% which included about 7 percentage points of expenses coming from the inclusion of acquisition.
Therefore expense growth excluding acquisitions was 14%.
Overall foreign exchange contributed roughly 4 percentage points to both net revenue and operating expense growth.
Operating income was up 23.3%.
This resulted in an operating margin for the quarter of 53.1% up from 52.6% in last year's second quarter.
Bottom line we delivered net income of $608 million up 32.8% and diluted earnings per share of $4.76 up 36.4%.
So over the next couple of slides representing the operational metrics for the second quarter of 2011 compared to the same quarter a year ago.
On Page 4 you can see the worldwide growth dollar volume or GDV was up 16.4% on a local currency basis or 23.6% on a U.S.
dollar converted basis.
As Ajay said this is the first time quarterly GDV has exceeded $800 billion.
This is driven by the highest quarterly growth rate we have seen in more than 4 years.
U.S.
volume growth was 9.9%.
And across the rest of the world volume growth was 19.9% on a local currency basis including almost 25% growth in both APMEA and Latin America.
Worldwide credit volume grew 13.3% on a local currency basis which breaks down into 5.3% growth for the U.S.
and 16.5% for the rest of the world.
Worldwide debit volume grew 22.2% on a local currency basis.
In the U.S.
debit growth was 15.1% and outside of the U.S.
debit growth was 28.5% with the highest growth rate coming from APMEA and Europe.
Cross-border volume growth on a local currency basis was up 19.3% the sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
This was supported by double-digit growth in every region including the United States.
Turning now to Slide 5.
Our process transactions were up 17.4% compared with the year-ago quarter to $6.6 billion.
This was the second consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
While it was driven by Latin America and APMEA all regions experienced healthy growth in process transactions.
This included the U.S.
which was up double digits for the first time since the third quarter of 2008 as new business such as our SunTrust and Sovereign wins has overtaken the diminishing impact of prior debit portfolio losses.
Overall growth in process transactions was further aided by our expanded processing relationship with Itaú in Brazil and domestic processed transactions that we have picked up in the Netherlands.
Global card growth was 6.4% to about $1.7 billion MasterCard and Maestro cards.
The number of MasterCard-branded cards surpassed $1 billion for the first time led by a greater than 20% increase in debit card.
Now let's turn to Page 6 to discuss revenue versus last year's second quarter in a bit more detail.
Net revenue generated outside of the U.S.
represented 60% of total revenues compared with 57% last year.
This shift was driven by revenues growing at a higher rate outside of the U.S.
at about 30% compared with 12% growth for U.S.
revenue.
Turning to the components of net revenue.
Domestic assessments increased 24.5% primarily due to strong volume growth.
Cross-border volume fees increased 9.2%.
But if you exclude the impact of the October 2010 cross-border pricing structure change these fees actually increased about 25% driven by double-digit cross-border volume growth in all regions.
Transaction processing fees grew 18.2% driven largely by growth in process transactions due to the new business in Latin America in Europe and in the United States.
Other revenue grew 41.9% driven mainly by the inclusion of revenues from the acquisition of Access Prepaid worldwide.
As an aside all of Access Prepaid revenue is included in the other revenue line item.
This is in contrast to revenue from our acquisition of DataCash which is included in 3 of our revenue lines; domestic assessments transaction processing fees and other revenue.
In total growth revenue increased by $373 million or 20.5%.
Now rebates and incentives were at $534 million up $71 million or 15.5%.
However the increase was about $130 million or roughly 33% when you adjust for the cross-border pricing change.
This increase was due to the impact of new and renewed deals as well as stronger volume performance.
Overall net revenue growth benefited by approximately 2 percentage points from pricing.
Now let's turn to Page 7 for some details on expenses.
Within total operating expense our general and administrative expenses increased by 24.8% or 21.3% on a constant currency basis.
This growth was primarily due to higher personnel expenses and other expenses related to the inclusion of acquisitions and strategic growth initiatives such as mobile prepaid and information services.
In total acquisitions contributed about 8 percentage points to G&amp;A growth.
Advertising and marketing expenses was up 7.1% with almost 5 percentage points of this growth driven by foreign exchange fluctuations.
Sponsorships as well as customer-specific and strategic initiatives accounted for most of the remainder.
Depreciation and amortization increased 43.2% primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets from our recent acquisitions.
So let's move to the cash flow statement and balance sheet highlights on Page 8.
We generated $538 million in cash from operations in the second quarter and the end of the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of $3.6 billion.
We repurchased about 1.5 million shares of Class A stock during the second quarter at a cost of approximately $387 million.
And in the third quarter through July 28 we actually purchased almost 78 000 additional shares at a cost of about $24 million.
So year-to-date through July 28 we have repurchased approximately 4.2 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of about $1.1 billion and have $935 million remaining of the $2 billion in total authorization.
We will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
Turning to Slide 9.
Let's discuss 2011 and I'll start with an update of what we have seen for MasterCard processed volumes for the third quarter through July 28.
Our cross-border volumes grew 22% globally ahead of what we saw in the first and second quarters.
This was driven by double-digit growth in all regions with slight upticks in growth in APMEA Europe and the United States.
Although not a perfect proxy for GDV total U.S.
processed volume grew 12% ahead of the levels that we saw in the first and the second quarter.
Higher gas prices are contributing a little bit perhaps a couple of percentage points to this growth rate which is further benefiting from an easy year-over-year comparison.
Recall that U.S.
processed volume growth was actually slightly negative in July of 2010.
In July total processed volume growth for the rest of the world was about 24% slightly ahead of the 22% pace we saw in the second quarter due to an uptick in growth in APMEA and Europe.
And globally process transaction growth was 20% ahead of the 17% growth we saw in the second quarter and the 11% growth we saw in the first quarter.
And this is really in part due to Itaú in Brazil a domestic processing in the Netherlands and the U.S.
debit deals coming on line.
So based on what we see now this is our view for 2011 on a constant currency basis.
We had a strong first half with net revenue growth of 18.5% and we continue to expect that the second half growth will be slightly higher.
Keep in mind that deconversions will have a diminishing impact on the second half.
And additionally Access Prepaid closed in mid-April and therefore will contribute to both the third and the fourth quarter while it only contributed to part of the first half of the year.
Finally the DataCash acquisition closed in late October last year and therefore would anniversary in the fourth quarter.
Regarding foreign exchange if current rates for the euro and the rial hold for the balance of the year we would expect a full year net tailwind of around 2 to 3 percentage points to revenue.
And our views in operating expenses remained unchanged as well.
We remain committed to our target of a minimum 50% annual operating margin and continue to expect only a small operating margin expansion in 2011 relative to 2010.
Operating expenses continue to include investments in strategic areas such as mobile e-commerce Prepaid and Commercial.
It will also include the operating expenses of both DataCash and Access Prepaid worldwide.
The vast majority of the impact of these acquisitions will be felt in G&amp;A which is likely to be up about a similar dollar amount year-over-year in each of the third and the fourth quarters as it was in the second quarter.
As a reminder there will also be an impact to depreciation and amortization which we now expect to grow more than 35% versus 2010.
In total as we said on our last earnings call the acquisitions will contribute more to growth of operating expense for the full year than they will to growth of net revenue.
We expect the acquisitions to have a $0.04 to $0.06 dilutive impact to EPS for the full year.
We now expect the proportion of annual advertising and marketing spend by quarter to be similar to the patterns we saw in both 2009 and 2010.
And for modeling purposes we now believe that the 2011 full year tax rate could be slightly lower than the 33% we originally communicated due to the currently expected impact of some of our tax planning initiatives.
Now let's discuss our long-term financial objectives.
Each year we address our objectives.
We evaluate any potential changes in the economic environment business development and other issues on a global basis that might impact our overall financial outlook.
And while you have heard Ajay discuss the global environment and Chris talked specifically about our U.S.
Debit business our overall assessment is that our long-term financial objective remain unchanged.
For the 2011 to 2013 period these objectives are: A net revenue compounded annual growth rate of 12% to 14%; a minimum annual operating margin of 50%; and an earnings per share compounded annual growth rate of at least 20%.
Finally we have said that these objectives are all on a constant currency basis and exclude acquisitions with the exception of DataCash and Access Prepaid worldwide.
So with that let me now turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Operator? [Operator Instructions]  Your first question today comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Ajay or Chris could you maybe just talk about from your conversations with bank issuers what they're thinking about that 1 mark or 2 marks on the back of the card and kind of the pluses and minuses when thinking through that decision? And then maybe just are they thinking of other alternatives in terms of card products other than debit cards maybe something along the lines of credit to offset some lost debit economics? Sure Sanjay.
What the issuers are thinking about with the place and the marks would be adding a functionality of PIN debit on the back is to do a number of things and I mentioned these in my remarks.
One is there's operational complexity with maintaining multiple PIN debit functionality.
You have to maintain we call them pipes or communication lines into the different networks so there's some added complexity to that.
The other thing they're thinking about is just the fact that having multiple marks on the cards does feed some additional routing ability to the merchants.
So in addition to being able for the merchant to route between signature and PIN they now have the ability to route with multiple marks on the card between signature and perhaps one or more PIN marks.
So there comes with that a level of uncertainty and a level of preferences given to the merchant in their routing consideration.
So they're thinking through that.
Obviously they're also thinking through in addition to products they're thinking through how they price for the different services that the deposit holders have with their institutions whether that's annual fees for checking accounts whether it's fees for the debit cards themselves reducing perhaps the cost base of their products by perhaps limiting their usage to just the United States.
Some of them are considering limiting the amount that can actually go on a debit card limiting the transaction amount et cetera.
And of course they're looking at credit again as write-off rates start to moderate as we come to the economic cycle.
Credit again is beginning to look a little bit more attractive as a revenue replacement.
Your next question comes from the line of Rod Bourgeois with Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Yes can you just give us the numbers on how much your revenue and volume growth and maybe even transaction growth to what extent it benefited from the portfolio conversions of SunTrust and Sovereign in the quarter? Rod it's Martina.
At this point in time we just have a little bit of a better benefit when you combine both the debit deconversions the 2 portfolios that we had actually lost in the United States as well as the add-on of the several portfolios that we actually won.
So there was a slight benefit and we are really expecting to turn the corner in the third quarter.
Inc.</strong> For just so we can quantify the impact on the acceleration can you tell us what the benefit was from SunTrust and Sovereign? No Rod we are not breaking those numbers out.
As I said there was a slight benefit in total.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then just a couple of quick clarifications.
Can you specify where the 2 points of pricing came from? Was that from the merchant acquired fee increase lingering from April of 2010? And then I just want to make sure I heard you correct.
I think you might have said that U.S.
transaction growth was negative in the month of July but I want to make sure I heard that right.
No so first of all on your last question that was July of 2010 when actually U.S.
GDV growth was negative.
And with respect to your first question from the 2 percentage points of pricing you had about 50 basis points in there which was really a lapping impact from the price actions that we took back in April of 2010.
And then the remainder was really a lot of diversified small pricing actions all around the globe so there's no one particular big impact from any particular action.
Inc.</strong> And then just the final thing will some of those small pricing effects continue over the next year or are they largely anniversarying at this point? No you have a number of them that were actually implemented in January of 2011 and a couple that we implemented in April of 2011.
So you'll have for the rest of the year until the first second quarter of next year you'll have a bit of a benefit there.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Fodor with Morgan Stanley.
Question for Ajay TransUnion recently put out an analysis suggesting consumers have been on a trend of aggressively paying down credit card balances.
I just wonder what you think this could mean for the trajectory of the U.S.
credit growth over the next 1 to 3 years? I mean does it imply there's a lot of dry powder now for spending or do you think this reflects the cultural shift away from credit and then continue on on this point?  Do you think the U.S.
credit market can realistically get to say high single-digit growth in payment volumes again or it's mid-single digit about what we should think about? Probably a not a good guy to give you the last part as in high single-digit versus mid-single digit of the long-term because it's a little difficult to predict that level of activity today.
But I would say this to you the down payments the increased payments on that card balances that you read about are comprised of 2 things.
One part is actually if we take the gross numbers is the level of write-off there are number of banks in the United States that had to take over the last few years and that tends to decrease the total outstanding in their system by a fairly large amount.
You've got to just keep that in mind we are looking to total number otherwise you could mix up the write-offs with the actual change in consumer behavior.
Then there's the actual numbers of what consumers are doing with higher spending.
I mean spending rate these days and the spending rate are very different from what they were 3 years ago.
In fact a year back the U.S.
savings rate were up to 6% 7%.
They went back down to 4.5% 5% recently released numbers.
Although I'd wait to make sure those are very accurate sure that about 5% 5.5% of consumer savings is what you're seeing.
So they're all that transfer into a secular changing in the behavior towards credit.
I don't think you can jump to that conclusion yet.
And the consumer they're rebalancing their balance sheet are going through somewhat uncertain time I think those that are unemployed for quite a while now are not quite clear how they'll get back to employment but I do believe that those who are employed have a lower fear of an impending unemployment event on the horizon for them.
And so you've got 2 kinds of consumers even in that list.
That is all that's put together would lead me to conclude that I wouldn't come to a set of conclusion that says that secular change in credit is happening.
I just wouldn't get there yet.
I think that with the advent of all these rules in debit as somebody asked earlier I think it's Rod I think you will find banks trying to relook at their ability to generate revenue given that their credit cycle has changed in tone for a number of the banks.
And I think that itself will drive a new form of offers and promotions and willingness to take on risk with the banks over the next couple of years.
Some of them by the way have already been doing that for the last year or so already.
So it's a mixed bag.
I would just tell you don't conclude that secular change is happening.
That's too early.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Kupferberg with Jefferies.
I just wanted to pick up on some of Chris's comments earlier in terms of the post-Durbin world here.
Have you guys been asked by any of your issuer customers to revisit or renegotiate their contracts at this point? And if so how far are you into that process and have you been able to obtain extensions on any of these contracts as part of those negotiations?  Because I think in the past you guys have said that you have 1 big contract renewal in each of the next 3 years.
And then if you can also just tack on to that any quick update you might have on the merchant litigation that would be great.
We're limiting our discussions to issuer contracts just to compliant specifically with the Durbin regulations.
So in situations where we have exclusivity provisions which is fairly limited on our debit card base or the computation of or the incentives that go into the computation of the netzero calculation which I'm sure some of you are quite familiar with make them into play.
So we would have to discuss with our issuers changes in terms and conditions around that.
But as we said before we do not have material average change clauses in our contracts and we believe that the value we provide of our debit network is consistent with the pricing we have in place today.
So we think we're in pretty good shape from a pricing pressure standpoint with those little debit contracts with the exception of having to work through the netzero calculations.
And for an update on litigation I'm going to defer to Barbara because that's not my area of expertise.
Before we get to that I just want to add on one thing Jason.
When we actually quote that we have contract renewals in -- 1 big contract renewal in each of the next 3 years that was not limited to the United States.
That was a global statement okay so it is all of our business globally.
And on the merchant litigation there is nothing new compared to what we've written in our public disclosures.
This stuff has been carrying on for years.
There's a trial date scheduled for September 2012.
They're all in mediation which is a lot of fun as you can imagine.
We've made substantial progress in negotiations with the individual merchant plaintiffs about [indiscernible] -- we've got no such comment to make about the class merchants.
And since the individual merchants represent less than 5% of the purchase volume of the class I really don't know where this mediation will go right now so it's still out there.
All we have is the judgment settlement sharing agreement that we've already announced with you last earnings that I remember.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Maurer with CLSA.
Following on your discussions in Netherlands I was wondering if the problems that European banks are having might be hastening negotiations to outsource processing and move on to Maestro and whatnot to comply with separate banks? Hi Craig.
It's Ajay.
I don't think that I've yet to -- that I can say that they are hastening any of those discussions.
Europe tends to move at a glacial pace because of the complexity of the number of banks the country rules and the EC rules.
That's a fairly complex needle to thread your thread through.
So you should not expect dramatic moves up and down.
Having said that the breakthrough we have in The Netherlands was very welcome and very helpful.
In fact our European processing volume that we now see was up this quarter over 100%.
Whereas if you remember the last earnings call I talked about over 40-odd percent.
So in a sense that is an improvement in that number it's caused largely by this Netherlands piece.
There are lots of negotiations going on with a number of banks but don't conclude it's because of any reason.
This work has been going on for years.
Your next question comes from the line of Tien-Tsin Huang with JPMorgan.
Great results happy to see you're investing as well.
I guess I'll ask about Visa's network participation fee what the implications would mean for Mastercard.
I'm asking because it's a pretty drastic change in how acquiring fees are going to be billed so I wonder if Mastercard needs to match that? Tien-Tsin it's Chris.
At this point in time we don't see a need to match it.
As I said in my comments we're going to be very thoughtful and very surgical in how we approach the opportunities in PIN and signature debit as it unfolds under Durbin.
As I mentioned there's a lot of moving parts that need to be sorted through and to put in place a sort of a blanket across the board.
Network participation fee I think suboptimizes our economics when it comes to grabbing some of this opportunity.
So we are going to be looking perhaps at specific acquiring relationships.
We're going to be looking at certain verticals of merchants and certain categories of merchants that we believe will provide the best market share increase for the best economics.
I mean our objective is not to go out there and buy every PIN transaction that exist in the U.S.
today to do it in a very thoughtful way with more precise economic tactics than a network participation fee.
Tien-Tsin this is Ajay.
When this regulation came out we've been working our way through different situations.
The basis of everything we've looked at is that we have a lower market share and our position therefore is different.
We don't need to defend as much as find ways to find the chinks in the place that we could build and capitalize on.
And that's the reason we're looking at it rather than doing any blanket pricing or blanket efforts for acquirers or for merchants large or small or for issuers large or small.
We still think our benefit comes from being flexible deal-by-deal and thoughtful deal-by-deal because of where we stand versus some of our large competitors who I think are doing things that are appropriate for their market position.
Your next question comes from the line of Don Fandetti with Citigroup.
Ajay your growth in regions such as Asia continues to be very strong.
I was curious if you think you're still in a market share gain mode or work suggest that you are.
I just wonder if you could comment on some of the regional networks from a competitive standpoint maybe talk about comp how you see them is there a merchant actually a benefit for you or does it become [indiscernible]? Don we are still very much keen to make sure that not only do we benefit from the secular growth of spending on electronic payments and the move from cash to electronic payments and frankly the benefit of growing middle classes and global traveler region like Asia.
We want to benefit from all that.
But we also have a game to play to pick up back some of the market share we'd like to have in Asia compared to our competitors.
So it's a mix of both things that are going on the ground and our results actually are benefiting from both substantially in Asia.
Now CUP.
CUP is a very interesting circumstance.
CUP as you know domestically in China has a State-mandated position that is very calendar rules and construct.
And that's a play that global companies like us cannot play in the domestic processing business.
So what we are focused on on the other hand is the increasing capability of affluent and middle class Chinese to be spending money outside of China and of course more inward travel into China of Mastercard holders like ourselves and that's where our entire arrangement with CUP is constructed.
It's constructed on improving MasterCard acceptance in China for people like you and me.
It's constructed on improving CUP acceptance outside of China both physically and e-commerce space and but in return for revenue in both these examples.
So we make some money by facilitating that acceptance.
They make some money by facilitating our acceptance but at all cross-border.
Domestically as of now it's still a very close marketplace that's something that I have no idea when it'll change.
I don't know what I could tell you about that portion.
I'm just focused on the nondomestic portion of our relationship with CUP.
Your next question comes from the line of Bruce Harting with Barclays Capital.
Just trying to reconcile your terrific volume number printed here and given by Martina through July even with adjustments for acquisitions in SunTrust et cetera.
With the doom and gloom out there in terms of an emerging recession possibly here and all the problems we read about daily in Europe can you get a little more granular with any geographies or maybe give examples particular strength in Europe I mean the numbers you're putting up in Europe defy what we read about everyday there.
Asia the numbers the APMEA numbers I mean it looks like back in the envelop in a couple of years those numbers could be as strong as the U.S.
in terms of volumes.
Is this mostly your war on cash playing out or is this PCE rising in these countries or both? I'm just trying to get a little bit is the market maybe your opinion on what you're seeing from the bottoms up here is the market overly pessimistic or is this just the shift to digital payments? And I think the answer is important for your stock could be one of the best to hold if we are going into a recession if the answer is the war on cash because you'll sustain these growth rates even through the downturn? Bruce it's Martina.
Really all of the factors that are impacting our growth you have just quoted so let me talk a little bit about it.
The United States is a bit different than the rest of the world.
So let me start with the rest of the world first.
When you look at Asia Pacific and in Latin America as Ajay has already said there is a significant secular trend going on in terms of people using less and less cash and check in those countries where you have checks a more electronic forms of payment.
In addition to that all the work that our people are actually doing on the ground in terms of winning business in helping financial institutions as well as a number of other companies as well as governments around the world to be converting really taking advantage of the secular opportunity that is benefiting really our growth.
In Europe you have some of the same going on.
There obviously also market share gains impacting in there but the Europeans are very interesting.
You hear in the United States you hear a lot of doom and gloom when when you go into Europe you don't hear quite as much doom and gloom.
In fact when you talk to a lot of Europeans and it is August today they will be all going on vacation still and they might be doing vacation in a little bit of a different way than they have been doing in the past but they're still will be going for 2 or 3 or 4 weeks at times on vacation.
So people will be still continuing to spend and because of the secular trend and because our product being readily available in the market we will obviously benefit from that.
United States is a little bit different.
When you really look at the underlying growth rate I already said in my remarks that gas prices this contributes a couple of percentage points.
I mean when you just look at gas prices alone right there they increase by a $1 per gallon from the year-ago quarter.
So that has a significant impact on the volume growth.
Transactions by the way haven't changed too much when you just look at the gas portion.
In addition to that you see a number of other commodities actually having increased price okay.
So look at food and what all goes into the food.
Look at the energy prices look at the gold prices that go into luxury product for instance.
So a number of the drivers are really impacted by what's going on from an inflation point of view.
And then last but not least Ajay already told a story about we have 2 types of consumers in the United States.
We have those people who have a job who feel that they will have that job for quite some while to come who feel that they can go out and do the spending that they need to do and then on the other hand you have the consumer who is not quite as well off who is not able to do it like that.
So I hope that gives you a little bit more of a clarification where we are.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Chris I realized that it's a strategy that's still evolving and you've made some specific comments vis-à-vis your PIN debit share and desire I guess directionally to take share.
Can you just talk a little bit philosophically about your willingness to go after routing volume both in terms of kind of the pricing initiatives you might be willing to take opportunistically as you mention but also the economics and the ROI considerations? I mean Martina mentioned that PIN debit economics weren't so hot to begin with I imagine it'll only get worse post-Durbin.
Maybe just a little thought on the puts and takes and MasterCard's willingness to be aggressive versus just sit back and let volume flow your way? Yes.
I think I mentioned in my comments that the PIN debit economics are very thin pre-Durbin.
I think in terms of a couple of cents of transaction that's sort of a zip code size of revenue yield off these transactions.
So you start taking that pre-Durbin and then you start thinking about how much do we pay large merchants to route how should we pay acquirers to route and how much do we pay issuers to position ourselves in an optimal space with their routing configuration on the back of their card.
It doesn't leave a lot of money left over.
So because of that we're not going at this with a blanket approach to pricing.
We as I mentioned earlier I think Tien-Tsin asked the question much more surgical much more precise in terms of where we think we can play in this space.
You have to remember that PIN debit transactions are very inexpensive to start with.
They're single message transactions.
There are a multitude of PIN networks out there in addition to MasterCard and our big competitor.
There are a number of regional PIN networks out there which makes it very competitive.
There's a lot of capacity on PIN networks today.
So the volume increase that we will see or anybody will see with PIN debit changes will far exceed the revenue implications of that going forward.
That's just the way it is and that's why I've said we are not in the game to go out and buy every PIN transaction we can.
We're going to do this in a way that optimizes our economics.
Inc.</strong> Is there consideration to just say hey we don't want to be in the business or it's not could the economics don't justify your being here? No.
We absolutely want this business but we want in a thoughtful way want in a way that makes economic sense to us.
But we have a great network we have global acceptance.
We'd like to see transactions across our network.
It gives us information capability that we otherwise wouldn't have.
But we're not going to do it in a way that just doesn't make economic sense.
let me just add to this.
Our network is really scalable right.
And we are able to add additional transactions at a very low incremental costs.
So from a positioning point of view from a cost structure point of view we are obviously in a very good position to be able to pick up deals in a selective manner.
But because of all of the things that has to still shake out in the market between the issuers the acquirers and the merchants we said that we do believe that there will be opportunity we're not sure yet how much opportunity.
So for us it is really a way of how are we going to go after profitable growth.
And then how much are we really going to get that? This is Ajay.
And let me tell you that I think part of the confusion that comes in this topic comes from the use of the word economics.
When we say economics are thin what we mean is that revenue economics of a PIN debit transaction not the profitability economics of a PIN debit transaction.
Not the operating margin economics of a PIN debit transaction.
So when Chris is talking about revenue it's crystal clear that it's PIN.
That's why he says you may get more volume growth than revenue percentage growth.
Yet as he said in his remarks and Martina just said the cost of processing most transactions incrementally at the margin is very small for our company.
So we still think there's enough business there to not only make decent operating margin from if he's in those deals but also use that incremental data that we get the incremental transactions that we see to add value to many other products we sell whether it be inControl whether it be sort of the express monitoring services or risk so there's all things that we do with that data.
So you've got to just understand that logic of revenue economics versus operating margin economics.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Kissane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a clarification Martina what portion of your U.S.
volume is from gas? And then a question for Chris you kind of alluded to the Fed re-evaluating interchange cap would you have a sense in terms of how often they'll review debit issuer cost and ultimately the interchange cap? Jim it's a relatively small portion obviously of overall volume.
The only thing that we did see in the quarter ticking up and that's totally in keeping with the price change is actually is now from 7.5% we usually said that the volume is gas as part of volume 7.5% is now a little bit over 9%.
And then from a transaction point of view though we're seeing that it doesn't change much.
It's around just shy of 16% 15.8% I think for the quarter.
And with respect to the Fed reviewing interchange caps our indication is it could be every 2 years or thereabouts.
So that's the time horizon you should be thinking through.
Your final question today comes from the line of Tom McCrohan with Janney Capital Markets.
I was just wondering if MasterCard had a view on allowing bill payments on prepaid cards in light of the new language that prohibits access to funds loaded on GPR cards over the bank on a CA system and if you can just clarify did I hear you say that you have a new GPR card that you distribute to Walmart? Can you just clarify that? With respect to allowing bill pay on the card that's really the issuers' decision what they allow the functionality of the card what are these allowed to do whether ATM withdrawal bill pay direct access to DD&amp;A accounts whatever the case might be or to fund it.
So it's not whether we allow it or not allow it it's whether once the issuer decided to provide that functionality whether it qualifies or regulated or unregulated rates.
The Walmart program these were general-purpose reloadable cards put into the stores at their new financial centers which you'll see some press around to enable their customers to avail themselves to prepay functionality.
And as you know all their associates in the United States received their payroll on a prepaid card if they did not have a bank account.
So we've had some good traction with that major retailer in the prepaid space.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
I would now like to turn it back over to Ajay Banga for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Let me just leave you with a few closing thoughts.
We have delivered really good results for the first half of 2011 due not only to the strength in our base business across all 5 of our regions but also driven by volume and transactions from new deals.
Chris spent some time talking about the U.S.
Debit.
In a date a year or so before this plays out across all the stakeholders we remain confident we can increase our share in the U.S.
Debit category.
We will maneuver to drive the maximum positive impact for MasterCard.
Thinking about the business going forward as I told you there is economic uncertainty particularly in the United States and Europe that we need to keep a close eye on.
At this point growth remains relatively strong in Latin America and Asia-Pacific Middle East Africa.
Through all this we have not lost sight of the big picture.
We remain focused on displacing the 85% of transactions across the globe that are conducted using cash and checks.
That is our opportunity.
We are executing on our growth strategy to invest in differentiated capabilities and win more than our fair share of this secular shift to electronic payments.
With that we're going to conclude the call.
Thank you for your time today.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 MasterCard Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chantalay and I will be your facilitator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Chantalay.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today either by phone or webcast for a discussion about our third quarter 2011 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina we will open up the call for your questions.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website mastercard.com.
The earnings release and slide deck have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A dial-in replay of this call will be available for one week through  November 9.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our most recent SEC filings.
With that I will now turn the call over to our CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
As usual before Martina gets into the details of our results let me start with some comments.
In the third quarter we saw net revenue growth of 27% or 24% on a constant currency basis.
This helped fuel operating income growth of 31% and EPS growth of 43%.
We're obviously pleased with our results this quarter including our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit volume growth as well as the highest growth rate in process transactions since the IPO in 2006.
Each region posted healthy volume growth with the strongest growth in Latin America and Asia-Pacific Middle East Africa.
Volume growth in the U.S.
of almost 14% was led by strong debit results aided by the roll on of business wins and double-digit increases in our commercial credit business.
Despite persistently high unemployment rates and a weak housing market that has resulted in the low levels of consumer sentiment that we all read about we are still seeing the consumer spend.
Our U.S.
consumer credit volume grew 4% and debit volume grew about 22%.
This is consistent by the way with our SpendingPulse data that shows retail sales growth x auto has remained for the most part between 8% to 9% year-over-year in the recent months.
Certainly some of this increase is due to inflationary pressures such as higher gas prices and food inflation but it's still money that consumers are spending.
However the comparison will become more difficult starting in November as U.S.
retail sales x auto were up by over 5% in November and December of 2010 versus last year's spring-summer period when the comparable number was only about 1%.
Moving on to Europe.
Our performance there is driven by healthy cross-border volume growth and new domestic processing businesses in the Netherlands.
Given the sovereign and banking debt concerns in Europe we are surprised that consumer sentiment is low and we will continue to watch it as Europe tries to get closer to a plan that should go some way towards alleviating these issues.
But in spite of the economic headlines we are still seeing a significant opportunity from the secular shift to electronic payments in Europe.
In Latin America and APMEA we continue to benefit from strong cross-border volume growth which is above 20% in each of these regions.
Additionally new business of Itaú is driving growth in Brazil.
While both regions are still performing strongly the issues faced by some of the world's largest economies could begin to impact sentiment and confidence in these emerging markets.
Given our growth this quarter it is clear that this economic uncertainty is not yet showing up in our business results.
However we will continue to keep a watchful eye given that the signals remain mixed.
At the same time we are very much focused on what we can influence and control and that is winning deals and market share.
We also continue to see growth opportunity in the ongoing migration of cash to electronic commerce and this is what we are dedicating our resources to.
Before I get to our business highlights I'd like to give you a brief update on the regulatory and litigation fronts.
So first of all although changes to debit interchange became effective on October 1 there are still a lot of moving pieces in the U.S.
debit landscape.
All issuers continue to work through their internal decisions as to how to make their debit cards compliant from a PIN mark perspective.
Merchants issuers and acquirers continue to seek incentives for routing preferences.
Our perspective remains unchanged from what you heard Chris McWilton and me said on last quarter's earnings call and at our September investor meeting.
We are in a completely different competitive situation from others in the debit space and do not have the need to defend a large incumbent position.
We are focused on 4 objectives within our U.S.
debit business: first to retain our existing placement on the minority of our debit portfolios that are exclusive MasterCard debit portfolios.
It's important to remember most MasterCard debit portfolios are already Durbin rule compliant.
Second to get Maestro as the PIN debit brand on the back of competitive debit cards; third to continue to convert competitive portfolios to MasterCard as we have done with SunTrust Sovereign and the recently announced Huntington Bank; fourth to win routing preference with selected merchants and acquirers.
Now with this in mind we remain focused on strategic and surgical opportunities that make sense for us.
A deal-specific approach is what we believe is needed to give us the flexibility to navigate the complexities around PIN enablement and routing that exist in the market right now.
Remember that revenue yield on PIN volume was thin even before Durbin and will become even thinner after paying routing incentives.
As a result debit volume growth rates will exceed revenue growth rates as this space unfolds.
Recall also that lower revenue yield does not necessarily equate to lower operating margin.
Given the scalability of our network we are able to process these additional transactions at a very low incremental cost and therefore we will be strategic and selective when considering situations where we are willing to pay enhanced economics for routing.
So now let me take a few moments to provide you an update on litigation.
You will recall that last February they announced a judgment and settlement sharing agreement in the MDL case which capped our percentage of financial exposure at 12% of the monetary portion of a judgment of settlement that will involve Visa MasterCard and the bank defendants.
We've also been involved in court recommended mediations and while we have made substantial progress with the individual merchant plaintiffs there has not been similar progress with the class plaintiffs.
And based on developments in the mediation process MasterCard has extrapolated an estimate of a reasonably possible loss of at least $500 million if there is a negotiated settlement with all plaintiffs.
At this time it is not possible to put an upper limit on this loss due to the significantly higher demand by the class plaintiffs which are unacceptable to MasterCard.
You will see our updated disclosure on this matter in the 10-Q which we shall file later today.
In the meantime we continue to execute our strategy and I have several business highlights to share with you.
First in prepaid.
In the U.S.
MasterCard has been awarded 60% of all competitive public sector programs measured by volume during the last 18 months.
These represent $16 billion in GDV one of the most recent of these which has been launched under the state of South Carolina Department of Social Services for child support benefits and this is addition to the state of Illinois unemployment benefits program that we previously announced that is now launched and others that are coming in this area.
But prepaid is not only a tool for financial inclusion and benefits distribution.
There is a value proposition here for various segments of bank customers as well.
So I'll give you an example in Italy where we have 2 prepaid programs recently introduced to talk about.
The first is a youth-focused product that is designed in partnership with Intesa Sanpaolo and is based on opening branches called Superflash which by the way is also the name of a popular credit card they launched.
Three branches are already open.
The focus is on simplicity and convenience young staff by the way noncash handling branches although they do have some ATMs and several more branches are being opened in 8 cities in Italy.
And the product involves other young or appeal brands for youth such as Nike Sony and Vespa 500 000 cards have already been issued.
The second is a PayPass-enabled prepaid card co-branded with Vodafone as an extension of its loyalty program and actually the introduction of NFC technology to their customers.
And we continue to have success with IPS our processing platform and Access Prepaid the program management business of Travelex that we bought 2 extensions of our prepaid capabilities.
We have launched in Australia and issued multicurrency prepaid MasterCard running on the IPS and Access Prepaid platforms.
This card is capable of holding up to 7 currencies at the same time.
It's distributed through Flight Centre a major travel agent chain in Australia.
Thomas Cook the largest travel-related financial services company in India will be issuing MasterCard prepaid cards.
This is actually the first time that the Reserve Bank of India has allowed a nonbank institution to issue foreign exchange prepaid cards.
So now let's turn to debit.
Just a few moments ago I mentioned about Huntington converting its debit portfolio to MasterCard.
That started in early October.
Old cards will be deactivated no later than the end of November.
In Italy on the domestic processing front this is actually interesting.
We have signed a multi-year agreement with the first major Italian bank to migrate cards that are currently co-branded with the domestic scheme to Maestro only.
The conversion is expected to ramp up in the first quarter of 2012.
And in India we are collaborating with the Ministry of Food and Civil Supplies for the Government of Punjab to establish an electronic procurement and payment system which will improve the efficiency and actually help to decrease the cost of their current manual system which involves an annual outlay of $6.5 billion.
Also on the government front we have launched 2 commercial credit programs in partnership with the Mexican government and Banamex Citigroup's bank in Mexico to migrate that DND expenditure to MasterCard from nonelectronic forms of payment.
And while on credit let me mention during the quarter we renewed our consumer and commercial credit agreement with EnterCard a leading credit card player in the Nordics.
It's built on our recent success in debit with Swedbank that we all talked about last quarter.
In Latin America we are making really good progress with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria known as BBVA with whom we previously signed a multi-year relationship covering 9 markets.
BBVA is issuing MasterCard black cards in each of its 9 South American markets.
This product will displace a competitive product over time.
And in Argentina just last month MasterCard has begun to switch all of BBVA's credit transactions the first bank actually among the leading international banks in the country to shift its domestic switching to our network.
In the U.S.
we signed a multi-year renewal of our consumer credit business with RBS Citizens continuing an already strong relationship.
Working in partnership with Citizens we've actually delivered a lot of innovation to their consumers including a recent launch of inControl functionality for small business clients in their commercial portfolio and the use of MasterCard Advisors to improve the performance of other card product portfolios and while in the U.S.
Citi American Airlines and MasterCard have launched a Citi Executive AAdvantage World Elite MasterCard its highest level offering in this co-brand relationship.
This is actually a chip-enabled card with benefits such as Admirals Club membership priority check-in waived baggage charges.
So now let's get to mobile.
We continue to build our partnership in Telefónica including a strategic alliance launch co-brand credit products in 11 countries around Latin America and the Carribean.
And in fact we've just launched a Mobistar co-brand card in Mexico the first in this market to target mobile phone users with enhanced mobile benefits.
We are working with Etisalat the leading telecommunication provider in the United Arab Emirates on a contactless mobile payment solution that will launch in the first quarter of 2012 and while on the topic of contactless payments let me take a minute and discuss some PayPass highlights from around the world.
PayPass has been implemented in over 37 countries and now is accepted at over 341 000 merchant locations and growing.
This is a product that started out in the card form factor.
It's increasingly being deployed as part of mobile handset and at our recent Investor Day those of you who were there saw it as part of a mobile solution and experienced the benefits it can deliver to consumers.
For merchants it speeds checkout.
For issuers it adds functionality to help drive top of wallet behavior and retention.
In Canada virtually all created 90% of MasterCard cards are PayPass enabled and roughly 10% of total MasterCard transactions are contactless.
In July we added acceptance of McDonald's adding another 1 400 locations in Canada.
In Australia the majority of banks that issue MasterCard are also issuing PayPass-enabled MasterCards.
There is acceptance in major retailers including JB Hi-Fi Bunnings 7-Eleven Caltex Dimex and McDonald's.
Acceptance continues to grow in transit categories in cinemas in stadiums and there are additional large chains that will add terminals.
We just can't announce their names yet but watch this space.
There's more to come.
And our largest issuer in Australia Commonwealth Bank has just launched an iPhone app called Kaching that works in conjunction with the special iPhone case to enable PayPass transactions.
In the U.K.
not only is the transport for London implementing open payments but the nation's largest bus and rail operator FirstGroup has also announced nationwide rollout of contactless acceptance in buses.
These are cash-heavy channels that will be replaced with electronic payments.
In Poland we just reached 1 million PayPass transactions per month.
The PayPass acceptance locations in Poland are counted in the tens of thousands and include IKEA as an example who is also a partner in a PayPass-enabled co-brand credit card.
And in the U.S.
we continue to see merchant interest in contactless as a result of the next wave of innovation that's happening with contactless mobile devices.
Just recently several merchants have signed on to add PayPass acceptance including Walgreens Macy's Subway OfficeMax The Container Store Toys"R"Us Jamba Juice Peet's Coffee American Eagle Foot Locker Guess and there's more to come.
Now let me turn the call over to Martina for a detailed update on our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of the deck which shows our reported results versus last year's third quarter.
As you just heard we had a terrific quarter.
Net revenue grew over 27% driven by very strong volume and transaction growth across our base business as well as the addition of new deals.
Acquisitions contributed about 4 percentage points to this growth resulting in a very robust top line growth rate of almost 24% excluding acquisitions.
Total operating expenses were up 23.1% which included about 9 percentage points of expenses related to acquisitions.
Therefore expense growth excluding acquisitions was just under 15%.
Foreign exchange contributed less than 4 percentage points to net revenue growth and just over 2 percentage points to operating expense growth.
The FX impact is the same for growth rates with and without acquisitions.
Operating income was up 30.9%.
This resulted in an operating margin for the quarter of 55.1% up from 53.6% in last year's third quarter.
Bottom line we delivered net income of $717 million up over 38% and diluted earnings per share of $5.63 up almost 43%.
Now on the next couple of slides representing the operational metrics for the third quarter of 2011 compared to the same quarter a year ago.
So if you go to Page 4 you can see that worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 18.1% on a local currency basis or 23.4% on a U.S.
dollar converted basis.
This is the highest quarterly growth rate we have seen in more than 4 years.
U.S.
volume growth was 13.6% and outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 20.4% on a local currency basis including about 25% growth in Latin America and Asia-Pacific Middle East Africa.
Worldwide credit volume grew 14.9% on a local currency basis which breaks into 7.1% growth for the United States and 18% for the rest of the world.
Worldwide debit volume grew 24.2% on a local currency basis.
In the U.S.
debit growth was 21.6% and outside of the U.S.
debit growth was 26.3%.
Cross-border volume growth on a local currency basis was up 19.3%.
That's actually the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit growth and in fact we had double-digit growth in every region.
Turning now to Slide 5.
Processed transactions were up 20.5% compared with the year-ago quarter to $7 billion.
This was the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth and the highest quarterly growth rate for processed transactions since we went public in 2006.
All regions contributed to this growth but let me point out some specific examples that are related to new deals that have now started to lap.
In the U.S.
we continue to benefit from the new debit business such as SunTrust which converted to MasterCard starting in the fourth quarter of 2010.
In Europe processed transactions are still increasing as a result of new business in the Netherlands that we began to see earlier this year.
And in Latin America we are seeing more transactions from our expanded processing relationship with Itaú in Brazil which began to lap in September.
Now global card growth was 7.8% to $1.7 billion MasterCard and Maestro cards.
So now let's turn to Page 6 to discuss revenue growth versus last year's third quarter in a bit more detail.
The net revenue generated outside of the United States represents about 62% of total revenue compared with 59% last year.
This shift was driven by revenues growing at a higher rate outside of the United States about 33% compared with 19% growth for U.S.
revenue.
Let me turn to the components of net revenue.
Domestic assessments increased 25.5% primarily due to strong volume growth.
Cross-border volume fees increased 7.4% but if you exclude the impact of the October 2010 cross-border pricing structure change these fees actually increased about 23% driven by double-digit cross-border volume growth in all regions.
Transaction processing fees grew 26.1% driven largely by growth in processed transactions due to new business in Latin America Europe and in the U.S.
Other revenues grew 41.3% driven mainly by the inclusion of revenues from the acquisition of Access Prepaid Worldwide.
In total gross revenue increased by $432 million or 22.2%.
Now rebates and incentives were $564 million up $42 million or 8.1%.
However the increase was about $110 million or roughly 25% when adjusted for the cross-border pricing change that I've referenced just earlier.
This increase was due to stronger volume performance and the impact of new and renewed deals.
Remember that going forward this pricing structure will largely be in the base as we made the change in October of last year.
Overall third quarter revenue came in higher than we expected primarily due to stronger Brazilian processing and cross-border inbound travel to the U.S.
However please note that at this point we do not expect these 2 factors to contribute at this level to fourth quarter revenue growth and I will speak more about this in my thoughts for 2011 which comes a bit later.
Now moving to Page 7.
Let's go through some detail on expenses.
So within total operating expenses general and administrative expenses increased 27.3% or 25.2% on a constant currency basis.
Now this growth was primarily due to higher personnel and other expenses related to strategic growth initiatives such as mobile e-commerce and information services and the inclusion of acquisitions.
In total acquisitions contributed about 10 percentage points to G&amp;A growth.
Advertising and marketing expense was up 9.8% or 6.8% on an FX adjusted basis.
Sponsorships such as the Rugby World Cup held a couple of weeks ago in New Zealand as well as promotional activity in support of strategic initiatives accounted for most of the increase.
Depreciation and amortization increased 38.9% primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets from our recent acquisitions.
As a result we posted operating income growth of 30.9% or 26.3% on a constant currency basis.
Below the line there are a couple of items to highlight.
We recorded other income of $28 million primarily due to the realized gains on the sale of investment and an adjustment to the earn-out related to the Access Prepaid acquisition.
We consider most of these items to be more of on a onetime nature.
We saw additional benefit from a decrease in interest accretion now that we made the last AmEx litigation payment in the second quarter of 2011.
Also our tax rate declined to 30.5% in the third quarter from 32.3% in the year-ago period.
While there were some puts and takes in terms of discrete tax items the year-over-year decline was primarily due to a more favorable geographic mix of earnings which resulted from the expansion of our operation in APMEA.
The cash flow statement and balance sheet highlights are summarized on Page 8.
We generated $1 billion in cash from operations in the third quarter and ended the quarter with cash cash equivalent and other liquid investments of $4.4 billion.
We repurchased about 250 000 shares of Class A stock during the third quarter at a cost of approximately $77 million.
Year-to-date through October 27 we have repurchased approximately 4.4 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of approximately $257 per share.
This leaves $879 million remaining of the $2 billion in total share repurchase authorization.
We will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
So with that let me turn to Slide 9 and let's discuss 2011 starting with an update of what we have seen from MasterCard processed volume for the fourth quarter through October 28.
Our cross-border volumes grew 17% globally and that's slightly below the 18% 19% growth we have seen over the last four quarters.
This is driven by somewhat tougher comparisons particular in the U.S.
as well as in Latin America.
Although not a perfect proxy for GDV total U.S.
processed volume grew 13% similar to the level that we saw in the third quarter.
Recall that U.S.
processed volume was flat in October of 2010 as a result of the conversion.
Total processed volume growth outside of the United States was 18% versus the 22% pace we have seen in the recent quarters due in part to the Itaú volume beginning to lap in September.
And globally processed transaction growth of about 20% is in line with what we have seen in the third quarter and this was driven by slightly higher growth in Europe slightly lower growth in Latin America and continued and double-digit growth in the United States and APMEA.
So let me outline our current view for 2011 which remains fairly consistent with what we talked about on September 15 at our Investor Day.
While we expect revenue growth in the second half to be higher than the first half of the year on a constant currency basis we believe the majority of that impact came in the third quarter.
This is because a number of deals are coming to their one-year anniversary such as SunTrust which began to convert in the fourth quarter of last year; Itaú processing which began late in the third quarter of 2010; as well as the lapping of the DataCash acquisition which you might recall closed at the end of October last year.
Additionally the year-over-year growth rate for cross-border travel into the United States could be slightly lower in the fourth quarter and the level we saw in the third quarter because of tougher comps in the fourth quarter this year.
As a result of all of these factors revenue growth comparisons become a bit tougher in the fourth quarter.
Regarding foreign exchange rates if you assume the euro trades at an average of $1.36 per euro we should see minimal FX impact to fourth quarter revenue growth though we continue to expect a full year tailwind of roughly 2 percentage points to net revenue growth.
We remain committed to our target of a minimum 50% annual operating margin and continue to expect only a small operating margin expansion in 2011 relative to 2010.
Operating expenses continue to include strategic investments as well as the expenses of both DataCash and Access Prepaid Worldwide which mostly impact G&amp;A.
As a result G&amp;A will be up significantly for the full year though not as much as we saw in the third quarter since the DataCash acquisition will lap in late October.
Turning to depreciation and amortization.
That will be about approximately $200 million for the full year.
We continue to expect the proportion of annual A&amp;M spend by quarter to be very similar to the patterns we saw in both 2009 as well as in 2010 and when thinking about other income for the full year remember that a number of the items that we saw in the third quarter were onetime in nature and do not reflect the normal run rate of this line item.
For modeling purposes we now expect the 2011 full year tax rate will be just about 32% due to the earlier than anticipated impact of some of our tax planning initiatives.
Now let's quickly review our long-term financial objectives which remain unchanged from what we said at our Investor Day back in September.
For the 2011 to 2013 period these objectives are a net revenue compounded annual growth rate of 12% to 14% a minimum annual operating margin of 50% and an earnings per share compounded annual growth rate of at least 20%.
As a reminder these objectives are all on a constant currency basis and exclude acquisitions except for DataCash and Access Prepaid Worldwide.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thank you Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bob Napoli of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I'd like a little update on Europe if I could.
I mean it's 1/3 of your spending and your slowdown -- your performance there in light of the circumstances is pretty impressive and I'd like a little more color on what you're seeing there on a real time basis and imagine that some of these processing deals that you've won that's made the numbers look better than the market itself.
Bob let me take this first.
First of all yes we are seeing actually extremely good performance in Europe.
When you look at our total GDV numbers and GDV growth numbers in Europe it's over 17%.
You see both from a credit as well as from a debit perspective a double-digit growth there.
You see double-digit growth almost 18% from a cross-border point of view and then we're benefited in particular in the Netherlands by the deals that we did there on the transaction processing which is 30% growth.
So we have really not seen any significant impact in Europe given what's going on there from an economic point of view.
In part it is because all of the good work that our people are doing on the local ground in terms of winning agreements and implementing things it's in part the secular trend going from cash and check to electronic forms of payments.
And we'll be watching this situation very carefully going forward but despite the turmoil our business is performing well.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Martina the domestic assessments strength you pointed to obviously -- I was trying not -- as has been summed.
Processing revenues were up I think 26% and transactions were up 20%.
Is there any -- was there any pricing in there that drove the outperformance or is that currency? Okay can you repeat that question please because I didn't get everything? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The domestic processing increased this quarter.
Revenues I think were up 26% but processed transactions were up 20%.
Was there any pricing in there? Or is it just currency that drove the outperformance? What you have to look -- yes domestic processing had a little pricing in there for sure just a tiny little bit.
It was about 2 to 3 percentage points but what you have to compare is you have to compare the 25% increase on revenues to what we did from a U.S.
dollar converted GDV number.
And when you look at this the numbers except for that small price change actually line up perfectly.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just secondly on PIN debit in the U.S.
do you have any plans to try to use your signature rails to process PIN debit transactions? This is Ajay.
And I'm not going to tell you what plans we have but I'll tell you this.
We can obviously do that.
In fact microprocessing in Europe right now is done off those rails and so we actually have rail experience on that.
But I'm not going to talk any more about our PIN debit plans other than what I talked about in my opening comments for what we're trying to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Julio Quinteros of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Ajay can you just go back and rehash the strategy here on PIN debit? I mean you outlined the 4 things that I think make a ton of sense in terms of how you're going about this.
Maybe as opposed to rehashing all 4 of them.
Just focus specifically if you can on the routing opportunity with both merchants and the merchant acquirers if you will.
Julio I'm not going to add much more.
We are working through the routing opportunities with selected merchants and acquirers.
We've actually been signing a few deals with them.
I'm just doing all this in a surgical strategic way for those opportunities that make sense to us.
I don't feel it's in my competitive interest to be publicly talking about which ones are signed and what my plans for the next quarter are.
So I just don't want to go any further down that path but you should just know all 4 of those things I talked about.
That is retain our existing placement on the minority of our debit portfolios that are exclusive to us; second get Maestro as the PIN debit brand on the back of competitor cards; third keep converting competitive sick portfolios to MasterCard like we've been doing; and finally work on resulting preference.
We're working on all those 4 ideas with strategic surgical opportunities because the state is still complex and there's many moving parts.
And there's still a lot of negotiations going on and the issuers are looking for incentives.
The merchants are looking for incentives.
The acquirers are looking for incentives in a business that has trimmed revenue yields to start with and so we want to make sure we do it well and smartly.
Your next question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if you already addressed this and so was cutting over from another earnings call but did you quantify any changes in U.S.
debit volume growth since the new interchange regulations when it went in effect on October 1? At least can you quantify any that might be specifically tied to that? David it's really far too early to be looking at any different change in trends.
In fact when I was talking earlier in my script in my prepared remarks about processed volume we really have not seen much of a change whatsoever in the United States not on the debit volume as well not on the credit volume but very similar to the third quarter.
So I just suggest to you that it's far too early to be figuring out where that might go.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Fodor of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Martina you had your goal out there for operating margin of at least 50% but I just want to get a sense of your appetite to flex around that target level over the near term.
And secondly looking out over the next 12 months or so I mean how would you characterize it from an internal investment standpoint? Are we looking at heavier than normal amount of investments on the docket about average less than average? Yes Glenn I'd be happy to talk about this.
First of all we put out the 50%-plus operating margin out there for a reason and we put it out there because we are doing fairly significant investments in our strategic priorities which we quote e-commerce mobile information services what we do in the debit space and what we do in the prepaid space as well as in the commercial credit space.
In addition to that the numbers that you are seeing here we have the acquisition expenses included which will anniversary at one point in time latest in the first -- at the end of the first quarter I'd say at the beginning of the second quarter of 2012.
So you will see a couple of more quarters of this coming through.
We are keeping flexibility from an operating margin point of view primarily because we're looking into the future and what the economies the growth economies might bring in the future.
So of course when we put our plans together -- and this is by the way no different for 2012 than what we would have done for 2011 as well as 2010.
We are putting certain plans together to make sure that we can flexibly react.
If we were to see some changes in the economic environment it doesn't matter in which part of the region of the world.
So you should expect us to have that kind of flexibility built in to future plans too as we do -- as we did this year and last year.
Glenn the only thing I'd add is that as you heard Martina in her prepared comments the fact that we are sticking to the concept of a minimum 50% even for 2011 when clearly for the first three quarters we have done somewhat beyond that is because she has indicated that there are still expenses to come in the fourth quarter maybe at a lower rate than what we saw in the third quarter but probably at a higher rate than would otherwise have been thought about.
And I think those are the kind of indications we're trying to put our money back into our strategic initiatives.
We've actually from little little things that we have hired this year close to 700 people into our company and that's in addition to those we got through the acquisitions of Access Prepaid and DataCash.
And by the way of those 700 close to 350 are in the United States where people think that hiring is not going on and so we're actually adding.
And I think that's part of what we're trying to do with our business is to invest sensibly but like Martina just said they're very cognizant of the mixed signals that we are getting in the world economic system.
Whether the signals are coming from confusion between macroeconomics and microeconomics I don't know.
But I just know that I'm getting these.
It's not showing up in the business yet and so every month she and I are very conscious we need to keep some flexibility in the way we are constructing our expenses so we can react if we begin to see an impact on our top line.
And remember that even for our top line we are trying to indicate that the third quarter did have certain aspects to it that may not get repeated in the fourth quarter but we remain in the perspective that says the second half is going to be higher than the first half.
That part has not changed.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Kupferberg of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the rebates for Q4 I guess historically Q4 is the highest quarter for that line.
Do you expect that that will be the case again this year and any quantification you could provide around that? And would just love any thoughts from you guys on do you think we'll see any new issuers join the Google Wallet initiative in addition to Citi at any point soon.
Jason I really don't expect much change in the fourth quarter from what you see typically in our fourth quarter.
You'll see a very normal fourth quarter from a trajectory from a contra revenue trajectory point of view so there's really nothing to call out in specific.
As far as Google is concerned Jason I would say that 2 things are happening: one of course the bunch of new merchants that we talked about in my remarks.
But within the next few months I think Google Wallet will open up to the other networks which I believe is the right thing.
I believe that open systems is the only way.
I've been saying this for a while that mobile payments will begin to acquire traction.
I think that'll be networks as well over a period of time.
I'm sure they'll open up to other banks as well.
I just don't know what the timing of these specific things is.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Keane of Deutsche.
Super results but I did want to dig down on the 0.4 which I think was on the debit strategy of winning routing preference for merchant and acquirers.
I think that's the first time I've heard you talk about that Ajay and we obviously know Visa has kind of planned to incentivize merchants and acquirers.
So I guess my question is won't that pressure some of your rebates and incentives going forward and how do we think about that? And then secondly are you worried a little bit that you could lose some PIN share if you don't incentivize some of these merchant and acquirers now that Visa's put out this strategy? Actually it's not the first time I've talked about the routing preference and incentive.
It's just that I'm sticking to my way of thinking about it which is I don't plan to go out with a broad-based approach.
I don't need to.
I will do this selectively with certain merchants where I believe it makes a difference to the kind of volume that we get on our debit business.
We are already been doing some of those even prior to the changes in the rule because we've been having relationships with selected merchants where we feel that they will either make a difference to reducing the use of cash or they will make a difference to the perception of how debit can be used.
And that's sort of a new thing.
And the difference only is you aren't seeing as big an impact on our rebates and incentive line as you may have seen with other competitors but honestly you got to ask them that question.
I don't know why that is the case.
Mine is what it is.
Yes in fact let me just add to it.
Of our $110 million of increase in incentives in the third quarter the vast majority is really related to volume performance okay? It's only a small portion related to signing new agreements or renewing agreements.
Okay so no additional expense to think about as we head into 2012 with the result of this? Look.
As Ajay said before things are changing everyday.
The market has to work through a dislocation that happened from the legislation and we are going to have to work through that.
So I'm -- we're not going to talk about 2012 at this point in time.
This is only our third quarter results.
Typically we give you on the February call with our full year disclosure.
We give you a typically a few words about the next year but the situation is fluid Bryan.
Bryan think about what I said earlier.
We're going to keep our flexibility going.
I think among other things like the economic environment I think similar to that this whole debit environment is still moving around.
And I don't want to give you thoughts about something I don't have fixed right now directly for next year.
It would be a mistake in guidance to give you.
I don't want to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Maurer of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on Brazil.
I was curious if the end of exclusivity and the opening up of those systems down there added any to -- anything to your growth rate and if we should think about any type of grow over effect from that.
Craig that's a great question.
Actually when Redecard existed earlier in its original form and the predecessor was yellow which was the Visa-based acquiring scheme existed in its earlier form actually the distribution for this yellow predecessor was wider than the distribution for Redecard in its predecessor form.
And so in fact the opening up of that market effectively expanded the distribution for MasterCard to the same level as that of all the other competitors.
Now it did that for others too but it actually helped us in that sense.
Mind you I'm not talking about a 50% extension.
I'm talking about way south of that number but it did help.
Should you be thinking about that in a lapping sense? It start as a significant amount.
I think the bigger issue in Brazil in a lapping sense is the Itaú processing which lapped in September and the second issue of course out there is Brazil's economy and how well it holds up and I mean that constant guidance that comes around Brazil saying doing well on commodities struggling on industrial production so we keep an eye on that as well.
But I would say I wouldn't factor a great deal in my mind at least of the lapping caused by the removal of exclusivity.
Your next question comes from the line of Darrin Peller of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> You process and actually handle the authorization and settlement in about 5 or 6 countries and I think you highlighted today new processing in Brazil and Netherlands which I think you may have discussed before.
But that's obviously continued to contribute to growth and I think these types of transactions really boost your revenue yield per transaction longer term.
So can you just comment on that for a minute? I mean have there been any further changes in the landscape maybe SEPA or others that really might incrementally continue to open up the opportunity to process more transactions around the world versus just the brand transactions? Seeing your transactions and processing them is always useful for a company like ours not just for what we get as a revenue directly from it.
For what it gives us is the ability to sell other value-added products based on what we see in those transactions.
And so all of the effort we do with them inControl or a fraud management capability or behavioral scoring through Advisors all that does get enhanced when we see transactions.
So I believe that's what we'd like to do.
Now we're trying our best to improve our position in that space across the world.
I think SEPA clearly as we've talked about does provide a degree of opportunity there and in fact our progress in SEPA over the last I'd say few months and few quarters has actually shown some of that.
Transactions in SEPA up and beyond are the ones that we have seen and up beyond 100%.
In fact our processing of domestic transactions grew 180% in the third quarter of 2011 and have grown 113% year-to-date.
Now it's on a small base and Europe takes -- it's an evolution.
As you can see in the newspaper right now Europe's not a revolution although it feels like that on the roads of Greece.
But I'd say to you that's what we are trying to do.
Yes SEPA and the payment systems directive does provide opportunities in Europe.
Yes there are opportunities like that in other countries around the world as domestic schemes that were created over time begin to find that the economics of staying up to date with the technology investments required to be that way no longer make sense and they start coming to players of scale to say while you've got the scale across 200 countries why am I redoing it in every country? That's the principal way in which we get into these processing transactions.
It's very important to us.
It's a constant effort.
It's a slow effort.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Just one quick follow-up.
Conversations progressing with banks regarding debit pricing especially given now with the U.S.
banks.
Primarily you're tracking their debit usage fees that many had planned to instate.
Can you comment on the course of action you think these banks might take to take advantage of -- or really just try to replace the debit interchange revenue now? They've been -- I would tell you that the amount of noise made on the media of about one particular aspect of what they're trying to do is what the media chooses to do but they've been doing things with the taking away of free checking accounts for a while.
They have done things with different fees.
They have looked at their rewards on debit cards.
They're looking at every line of cost in their system.
If you think about it it's a fair amount of revenue that is moving from them to some of the retailers over this period of time and they're going to try to find ways to make sense.
I don't know what they're going to do.
I don't know yet but I know what they're trying to do is to look at every single line item from the cost of running a branch to the cost of rewards to checking accounts and also they had looked to recently at debit card fees and looks like that one got away for the time being.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hochstim of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I wonder -- could you give us an update on what's happening with China and with your relationship with China UnionPay and how much cross-border volume in China is affecting the APMEA numbers? No I'm not going to give you specifics on China's cross-border volume but it's healthy and growing.
I would say on China UnionPay our relationship carries on from where it was for the last few quarters.
We are now at the mobile payments gateway trial.
We have done that.
It's complete.
They're  actually moving towards commercial production off that.
Eventually the plan is for us to help them increase their acceptance overseas while CUP will help us increase acceptance for our brand in China.
But it's not just about increasing acceptance.
It's based on getting revenue from their acceptance for them and for us so those are the kind of things we are looking through with them.
We continue to work with them on this cross-border outside of China relationship.
As you know domestically the market is still a controlled market with China UnionPay being in a monopoly position and with us and competitors all of us not being allowed to play there and that's an unfortunate situation.
Inc.</strong> Okay and again I guess asked earlier but in Europe just to be clear have you looked at the sort of same customers over time? There's no change in spending behavior? At this point in time we are really not seeing any significant changes David.
Your final question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani of GIC (sic) [KBW].
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Martina just a quick clarification on Europe.
What is the growth rate x that add in Netherlands? And kind of when does it lap into next year? And then just separately I was just wondering if you guys had any thoughts on Durbin's request for an FTC study on the small bank debit interchange exemption.
Okay let me take the first one.
Ajay will take the second one.
But really where you see the Netherlands showing up in a big way is in the transaction processing numbers which are very very healthy in Europe.
I think I said 30% plus at this point in time.
It's in the volume numbers as well as in the cross-border numbers that I was quoting for Europe.
You are not really seeing a significant impact from the Netherlands so this is very good across all of the countries.
And remember this is not just Western Europe.
There's a healthy portion of Eastern Europe in there.
And Sanjay as far as the second part of it is concerned I continue to believe that once the law is the law we will ensure that we implement it to the best of our capability.
And in that law the banks below $10 billion are entitled to a differential interchange from those above and I'm determined to implement that with the full force of what I can do.
So whether Senator Durbin wants to investigate it one way or the other it's his call and I think it’s his prerogative.
But I'm just determined as a company to do what's right.
And now the law is the law and that's what we're going to do.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Ajay Banga for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
So let me leave you with just a few closing thoughts.
We've delivered really good results year-to-date due not only to strengthen our base business across all 5 of our regions but also driven by volume and transactions from new deals.
We remain watchful of macroeconomic trends around the world.
We are always ready to react as Martina was saying in response to a question.
If you see those trends going in a direction that begins to impact our business as we discussed in our investor meeting we believe that global PCE will continue to grow over time.
There will be ups and downs by country ups and downs by year but in the meantime we continue to invest and execute at a very local level to drive acceptance in new categories displace cash and bring the benefits of electronic payments to more people and more institutions.
Cash is not free.
It costs up to 1.5% of GDP for a Central Bank to print it secure it and distribute it and it comes at a cost to banks.
It comes at a cost to merchants.
It comes at a cost to consumers.
We will continue to push innovative products into the market that drive efficiencies and growth for all the stakeholders and in turn I believe this will drive MasterCard share and long-term revenue growth.
So once again thank you for your support for our company.
Thank you for your time today and I look forward to seeing some of you again over the next few months.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 MasterCard Financial Results.
My name is Cesenia and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] And now I would like to turn the conference over to Barbara Gasper.
Please proceed.
Thank you Cesenia.
Good morning everyone and thank you all for joining us today either by phone or webcast for our discussion about our fourth quarter and full year 2011 results.
We also appreciate your patience with the technical difficulties this morning and I'd like to say that we are going to extend the call beyond our normal length just to accommodate everybody for your patience.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina we will open up the call for your questions.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website mastercard.com.
The earnings release and the slide deck have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier today.
A dial-in replay of this call will be available for one week through February 9.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I will now turn the call over to our CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
Before Martina gets into the details of our results let me start as usual with some high-level comments.
In the fourth quarter we saw net revenue growth of 20% as reported or 21% on a constant-currency basis.
And that helped to fuel operating income growth of 34% excluding the special item for the litigation charge.
And as you see on Slide 2 this quarter's performance capped off a very strong 2011 for us with net revenue and EPS growth ahead of our 3-year objectives.
We had a strong operational performance with annual gross dollar volume cross-border volume and processed-transaction growth rate in the mid- to high teens all driven by very solid local execution.
And we delivered an operating margin a bit ahead of our 50% minimum target while actually finding a way to continue to invest in strategic initiatives for the long-term growth of our business.
We have some decent economic news in the United States lately with the unemployment rate dropping to 8.5% consumer confidence increasing over the past few months to an 8-month high.
This comes as consumer balance sheets have improved following a period of deleveraging.
And all of this has had a positive impact on consumer spending as is reflected in our SpendingPulse data which showed growth in December for all the 11 retail sectors that we track.
Now we saw continued strength in our own U.S.
volumes which were up about 12% for the fourth quarter.
But this positive news remains tempered by the uncertainty that persists in the picture of the unemployment rate and housing prices.
And you should also remember that U.S.
retail sales as well as our own U.S.
volumes begin to hit tougher year-over-year comparisons -- actually that started late in 2011 and it'll persist through the year 2012.
In Europe our business remains strong in spite of another quarter of negative headlines regarding the macro situation there.
Fourth quarter volumes grew almost 17% in line with the growth we saw with the prior 2 quarters driven by double-digit cross-border volume growth.
The addition of domestic processing in The Netherlands continues to drive significant processed-transaction growth in the region.
You should remember that our European region is comprised of nearly 60 markets extending far beyond Western Europe and the Eurozone.
In fact the majority of our revenue comes from the relatively stronger economies of Northern and Eastern Europe where we continue to see strong growth in both processed volume as well as revenue with particular strength in France and Germany and The Netherlands.
The countries most often talked about as troubled Portugal Italy Ireland Greece Spain account for less than 5% of our 2011 global net revenue.
In January processed volume growth in these countries these so-called troubled countries has decelerated only slightly from the mid-teens level that we saw over the previous several months.
That said in the Eurozone we have seen a decline in consumer sentiment in the third and fourth quarters of 2011.
In the past it has taken a few quarters before changing consumer sentiment impacts the growth of PCE in this region.
And as such we've continued to watch our European business closely.
And of course there is the potential that Europe's impact could spread to the U.S.
and other regions.
That's what we read about in the papers every day but the facts are that as it relates to Latin America and the Asia-Pacific Middle East Africa we finished 2011 with GDV growth greater than 20% in the fourth quarter in those 2 regions as well with strength in both domestic and cross-border volumes.
With all of that as a backdrop the facts are the lingering uncertainty in Europe and the lukewarm recovery in the U.S.
is what makes us continue to have a cautious outlook for overall consumption growth of PCE.
We remain focused in what we can influence: the steady displacement of cash and our ability to gain share in the electronic payment space both of which we've continued to make progress on.
So before I get to some business highlights I thought I'd give you a quick update on the litigation front.
And as you see in this morning's earnings release we took a $495 million after-tax charge in the fourth quarter.
This charge is an estimate of our financial liability that could result from a settlement of U.S.
merchant litigations and is basically based on the progress in the mediation process.
We know there's been a good deal of speculation in the marketplace about the terms of this settlement -- of this potential settlement.
The mediation discussions remain confidential so I can't really say much beyond what's in our release.
But being that much of the speculation is about credit interchange I want to make clear that we would not agree to any significant or long-term reductions in MasterCard's credit interchange rates as part of any settlement.
In the meanwhile we continue to execute our strategy displacing cash winning deals to get more than our fare share of payments growth.
And let me share a few business highlights.
During this quarter we signed a number of really interesting partnerships connected to our strategic priorities: First our global agreement with Western Union to help us grow and diversify while displacing cash and serving some of the world's 2.5 billion financially underserved people.
In addition to becoming Western Union's preferred prepaid brand globally we are working to enable all 485 000 agent locations of Western Union to serve as reload locations for any MasterCard Prepaid Card.
Western Union and MasterCard are also working together using our MoneySend platform and issuer relationships to help remove cash from either side of the remittance transaction.
Last year we entered into a JV with Telefónica covering the 12 Spanish-speaking markets in Latin America where Telefónica operates the Mobistar brand with 87 million customers.
In November we signed an additional JV agreement with Telefónica this one in Brazil.
The Telefónica's brand is called is called Vivo and it reaches an additional 65 million customers.
With that we now have completed our relationship across the breadth of Telefonica's geographic footprint in Latin America.
Both these JVs are focused on providing consumers with mobile payment services to drive financial inclusion increase acceptance of the users of payments over the next few years.
We also entered into a strategic relationship with Intel to leverage Intel's ultra-book chip what some of you may have seen at this year's Consumer Electronics Show.
When a consumer reaches checkout on an e-commerce site all they will need to do is tap their PayPass-enabled device from their computer which will do a few things.
For consumers it'll speed up and simplify the checkout process while making the transaction more secure because it leverages dynamic authentication something most PayPass transactions do.
And for merchants while this security will help to reduce fraud we believe this will also help to reduce shopping cart abandonment making it much more productive for them.
We've also signed a commercial agreement with mFoundry as well as having taken a small equity stake in that company.
mFoundry develops mobile banking apps for nearly 600 banks and credit unions in the U.S.
This should give us a chance to give the U.S.
consumers of these institutions -- of these 600 institutions mobile PayPass capabilities integrated with their online banking apps.
On to the U.S.
in specific the team continues with solid execution across the lines of business in debit.
Banks are continuing to work through their decisions to comply with debit non-exclusivity.
At this point I can tell you we have won PIN deal with a couple of major U.S.
banks and have already begun to see some of those transactions.
We've signed an agreement with KeyBanc as well to add PIN debit and to move on to our IPS platform.
We've also renewed our signature debit and ATM relationships with them.
During the quarter we converted the conversion of Huntington to MasterCard debit card and onto our IPS platform.
And interestingly while the top 25 banks in the U.S.
do get spoken of most often we all know that independent banks and credit unions are important players.
Credit unions alone serve over 90 million U.S.
consumers.
In 2011 we made substantial in-roads here.
We've signed debit and credit deals with almost 150 of these issuers.
And importantly a good proportion of these deals were conversions from competition.
We've also won some new U.S.
public sector prepaid programs which should be launching shortly.
The State of California will issue prepaid MasterCard for child support payments.
New York State Oklahoma will leverage prepaid MasterCards as an option to distribute income tax refunds.
Dollar General now accepts MasterCard credit cards and will distribute MasterCard Prepaid Cards in its 10 000 stores all of which will also become prepaid reload locations like those Western Union agents I was telling you about.
And just this week we contracted with Toys"R"Us to be the exclusive network partner for their co-brand program.
So on the topic of merchants we're bringing all of our assets to bear to drive value for merchants in a variety of ways.
Let me give you some flavor.
Two major automotive brands will begin accepting MasterCard debit cards in the U.S.
for monthly lease payments.
In France Casino a top 5 mass retailer will convert its private label store card to a co-branded MasterCard PayPass card.
PayPass acceptance new across geographies some examples: taxis in Hong Kong; pharmacies and gas stations in Russia; discount grocers in Austria; Canada's largest pharmacy; in the U.S.
RadioShack Gap stores in San Francisco Pinkberry and so on.
With our Priceless Cities program now in New York in London and Toronto we partnered with restaurants retailers theaters and other merchants to drive traffic and offer cardholders priceless experiences they would otherwise not be able to get.
In Europe we are partnering with affluent merchants to bring global travel benefit VIP guest passes accelerated bonus points to MasterCard World Elite and Black cardholders.
The luxury brands we are working with include for example Mandarin Oriental Fairmont hotels Oxford Jet and more are getting signed up.
In the other regions we are continuing to work on paving the way for the growth of electronic payments.
In Africa a growth region that MasterCard has traditionally been relatively underrepresented in we have signed a bunch of things.
During the quarter we signed an MOU with Ecobank Group to drive the issuance and acceptance of prepaid and debit accounts across 31 African markets where Ecobank has more than 750 branches and offices.
In Nigeria we signed an agreement with Zenith Bank one of the largest banks in Western Africa as well as a debit deal with Skye Bank.
We've continued to launch debit cards with other customers as well programs with GTB Bank in Ghana NBC in Tanzania as well as a major global bank with a presence in Kenya to issue world debit cards.
Also in Kenya we've launched prepaid MasterCards aimed at young travelers with Equatorial Commercial Bank.
In South Africa we've launched PayPass cards in virtual card numbers as well as prepaid cards for insurance and interestingly micro-finance distribution.
Now we've even got an office in Nairobi to serve as a hub for our East African business.
In Russia we're working with MTS the largest mobile network operator in that market and we're developing mobile PayPass products for their consumers.
They're pushing ahead of mobile payments in China.
We just signed an MOU with Unicom for e-pay to explore collaboration.
And while on China China Industrial Bank launched a Geneo [ph] airlines co-brand MasterCard which adds the co-brand relationships we already have with the top 4 airlines in China.
In the commercial space we've launched numerous programs in China including 5 new co-branded commercial card products with China Construction Bank which by the way is also launching a frequent business airline travel card.
And talking of airline cards Air New Zealand Airpoints customers will now get a card that comprises a monthly currency PayPass-enabled MasterCard Prepaid Card on one side with their Airpoints membership card on the other side.
And you can actually tap the card to check into your flight.
So that's just the flavor.
Tons of these going on.
Now let me turn the call over to Martina for a detailed update on our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina.
Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of the deck where we'll focus on the 2011 non-GAAP column which excludes the special item related to litigation.
And I'll compare those numbers to the 2010 actuals.
This quarter's EPS growth of 27.5% was driven by a combination of strong revenue growth and solid expense management.
Net revenue grew 20.2% while operating expenses grew 11.5% resulting in an operating margin of 44% a 4.4 percentage point increase year-over-year.
Foreign exchange had minimal impact on these numbers.
Overall acquisitions added 2 percentage points of growth to net revenue and 3 percentage points to operating expense growth.
This is a lesser impact than we have seen in recent quarters as we anniversary-ed the acquisition of DataCash in late October.
The effective tax rate was 32.3% versus 28.7% in the fourth quarter of 2010 mainly driven by benefits we recorded last year in connection with the repatriation of foreign earnings.
Let's turn to Page 4.
And here you can see the regional breakdown of our gross dollar volume for the fourth quarter.
Worldwide GDV was $863 billion up 16.3% on a local-currency basis or 14.9% on a U.S.
dollar converted basis.
U.S.
GDV increased 12.1%.
And rest-of-the-world GDV increased 18.4%.
On a local-currency basis worldwide credit GDV was 13.6% driven mainly by APMEA and Latin America.
Worldwide debit GDV grew 21.2%.
In the U.S.
local GDV grew 18.4% aided by the Sovereign and Huntington wins.
Debit growth for the rest of the world was 23.4% driven by APMEA and Europe.
Fourth quarter volumes grew 17.5% on a local-currency basis.
The slight deceleration versus the 19% cross-border growth that we saw in the third quarter was the result of lower cross-border growth for U.S.-issued cards and in Europe while the growth in both regions remained in the double digits in the fourth quarter.
In the U.S.
there's not a fundamental change in the usage of U.S.
cards overseas but rather this was largely the result of a stronger U.S.
dollar on purchases.
In Europe the decrease was very modest.
Turning now to Slide 5.
We proposed 7.7 billion -- I'm sorry we processed 7.7 billion transactions in the fourth quarter up 23.2% over last year's fourth quarter.
Double-digit increases in all regions were aided by domestic processing opportunities in The Netherlands and Brazil; new deals such as Huntington and Sovereign; as well as from U.S.
debit routing  changes.
Globally the number of MasterCard and Maestro cards grew 11.3% to over 1.8 billion.
So now let's turn to Page 6 to discuss net revenue in a bit more detail.
Domestic assessments grew 18.7% and cross-border volume fees grew 14.5%.
Both of these line items were driven mainly by higher volume.
The 12.6% increase in transaction processing fees was driven by a greater number of processed transactions including PIN debit transactions which drive incremental revenue albeit at a lower year.
Other revenue grew 27.5% mainly driven by our Access Prepaid acquisition which closed at April 2011 and growth in consulting services.
Rebates and incentives grew just under 9% for the quarter driven by both new and renewed deals and healthy volume growth.
U.S.
[ph] revenue grew 15% in 2011 and represents now 39.6% of our total net revenue.
Let's move to Page 7 for some detail on expenses.
Total operating expenses increased 11.5% excluding the special item.
Acquisitions largely Access Prepaid added about 3 percentage points to operating expense growth.
G&amp;A increased 14.3% primarily driven by higher personnel expenses related to strategic growth initiatives within core products emerging payments information services.
And Access Prepaid contributed about 4 percentage point to this growth rate.
The 4.8% increase in A&amp;M was mainly driven by investments in Priceless Cities customer-specific activities and sponsorships.
Depreciation and amortization increased 24.3% primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets from our acquisition.
The cash flow statement and balance sheet highlights are summarized on Page 8.
We generated $784 million in cash from operations in the fourth quarter and ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of $4.9 billion.
The slide also summarizes our progress on our share repurchase program to both year-end 2011 and through last Friday.
Now let's turn to Slide 9.
And let's discuss 2012 starting with an update of what we have seen for MasterCard processed volumes for the first quarter through January 28.
Our first quarter volume grew about 17% globally in line with the fourth quarter.
This was driven by continued double-digit growth in all regions.
In Europe cross-border growth remains in the mid-teens with intra-regional growth continuing to outpace interregional growth as the European stay closer to home.
In the U.S.
cross-border growth remains about 11% in line with the fourth quarter.
Although not a perfect proxy for GDV total U.S.
processed volume grew about 13% the same level that we saw in the fourth quarter driven by continued strength in debit and commercial credit volume.
In January total processed volume growth for the rest of the world was about 17% in line with what we saw in the fourth quarter.
European processed volume growth was in the mid-teens consistent with the growth rates in the fourth quarter and only a bit below the third quarter.
And globally processed transaction growth was about 25%.
This is higher than what we saw in the fourth quarter and was driven by higher growth in Europe due to the continued roll-on of domestic transactions in The Netherlands; and higher growth in the U.S.
due to new debit wins such as Sovereign and Huntington; as well as an increase in PIN debit processing resulting from routing decisions.
Just a reminder insomuch that we continue to get additional PIN debit transactions processed transaction growth will continue to outpace related revenue growth due to the lower yields that we're getting on PIN transactions.
Looking forward let's start with our long-term financial objectives.
We saw exceptional performance in the first year against our 3-year objectives for the 2011 to 2013 period.
We remain confident that our business is capable of a 12% to 14% net revenue compounded annual growth rate and a 20%-plus EPS compounded annual growth rate for the next 2 years as well.
These are of course on a constant-currency basis and based on the current economic conditions that we see in the world.
We also remain committed to our annual margin target of at least 50%.
So based on what I've just told you let me give you a few other thoughts specifically about 2012.
First assuming the euro continues to trade at the 1.30 level and the Brazilian real at the 1.75 level for the rest of the year we would expect about a 2 to 3 percentage point headwind to as-reported net revenue net income and EPS growth for full year 2012.
Based on our current plan for 2012 strategic investments we might have an opportunity to deliver some operating margin expansion this year.
However the amount of any improvement will depend on several factors including global economic conditions and investment opportunities that may surface during the year.
Our plans currently call for G&amp;A growing at a higher rate than A&amp;M.
We also expect our depreciation and amortization to grow by roughly another $30 million this year as a result of our strategic investment activity.
And for modeling purposes you should now assume a full-year tax rate slightly below 32% as a result of our ongoing tax-planning initiatives.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Martina.
We're now ready to begin the Q&amp;A answer period.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Ajay I appreciate the color on the merchant litigation.
Just a follow-up on your comments there on interchange rates.
Do you mean that you guys would consider some kind of short-term implications to the actual rate? And then just perhaps you could just follow up on the timeline going forward.
First of all the details of this mediation are confidential so I wouldn't assume that the opposite of what I said may come true.
I just don't jump to any of these conclusions.
I was just trying to take one topic of speculation off the table which is what I was reading about in the speculation that is out there.
That's all I was trying to provide some sort of insight to.
So I'm afraid I can't give you any more than that.
I also don't know anything about the timing because these things are always -- they move around on you.
And speculating on timing is not going to get me very far in this topic so I'm away from that one either.
And your next question comes from the line of Glenn Fodor with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the incentive trajectory into fiscal '12 is there any noise you might want to call out relating to Key or any of these other debit wins that you alluded to? And secondly there's been talk by your competitor about incentives increasing due to  signing more global deals to longer multiyear agreements.
Is that a trend that you're seeing? And if so what's the long-term impact on your business? Glenn first of all as you know we are not really giving any guidance on the incentives and the rebates line alone.
Our guidance includes that line item.
So if you're coming down to net revenue -- and as I just said we feel that this company is really capable of producing for the remaining 2 years of our 3-year guidance to 12% to 14% incentive.
Anything that might have to move in the market be it from what U.S.
trends on the U.S.
debit side or other deals we have that obviously baked into our thoughts but I'm not really prepared to break that apart.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom McCrohan with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So just a question on the merchant -- outstanding merchant liquidation.
Is there any outcome from that that will put at risk the 12% to 14% guidance for revenue -- net revenues for the next 2 years? Well the way we've tried to give you that guidance includes our thinking of the merchant litigation as we put out into our earnings today.
So that's kind of where we are.
We've kind of factored our thinking in there.
Obviously if some unforeseen thing emerges from it I can't speculate on that one.
But the way it is built today clearly we factored that into our 12% to 14%.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And given the 12% cap that you guys disclosed before as far as your obligation of  any monetary settlement should that -- I want to make sure that the math's right.
So based on that pretax special item this quarter that assumes a monetary settlement about $6.5 billion? So Tom what we have to do of course we have to estimate the amount that we would be taking for a charge.
And based on the facts of the table based on the progress of the mediation we had to develop a view on what kind of number we had to charge.
And this is our best estimate in terms of the charge.
And we have to see in terms of the development of the future of the mediation in terms of where that might be going.
But this is our best estimate as of today and it does reflect the 12% share that MasterCard would have to carry in a potential settlement.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the KeyBanc relationship I just want to make sure I understand that this is a PIN debit only.
And can you give us any other thoughts or updates on your progress in securing PIN debit business? I guess my key question there is have you seen a lot of these banks that you're talking to make the decision on how they're going to address exclusivity? Or are they still wrestling with that decision at this point? All right Chris.
First of all KeyBanc.
This incremental agreement with KeyBanc is to add PIN debit and is to move onto our IPS platform where we also have an ATM relationship with them and a signature debit relationship with them both of which have got renewed along with this incremental move that I just talked about.
So it's a much wider relationship with KeyBanc.
As far as the other aspect  is concerned somewhere in my earlier comments I talked about the fact that we've actually won these PIN deals with a couple of the very major U.S.
banks and we've actually begun to see some of those transactions.
So while the banks are working their way through let's say complying with the non-exclusivity criterion a number of them have began to make their decisions and those are the ones that we have been able to talk about.
So it's WIP but progress is being made.
And your next question comes from the line of David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> If you exclude portfolio conversions and de-conversions from the fourth quarter of 2011 can you quantify underlying processed transaction growth year-over-year? Yes.
So mostly what we do of course on the de-conversions is from a debit perspective right? And so when we -- there's very very little movement in there from a de-conversion anymore because we've pretty much concluded all of those.
So it's really the roll-on for the new wins.
And when you strip that out you're coming kind of down to a number of the mid-teens versus the 23% growth that is the top line number.
And your next question comes from the line of Craig Maurer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Quick question for you on Europe.
I was just hoping to get your initial thoughts on the Green Paper that was published in Europe and is now out for comment.
Craig this is Ajay.
Let me put it for you this way right? The Green Paper which came out recently they've got a 3-month consulting period.
It ends in April 11.
Basically they're looking at all aspects of European card Internet and mobile payments.
They're saying -- they're coming from the viewpoint that there's not enough innovation competition or integration in Europe which is fascinating given all the other things they're dealing with.
But what this does is it identifies potential obstacles or barriers to further expansion of card mobile and Internet payments and kind of says we got to do stuff with this.
And it may actually lead to a legislative proposal later.
But in contrast to what the EC seems to think we see e-commerce and mobile payments are growing dramatically in Europe.
Consumers are adapting new technologies.
New players are coming in with different ways to pay.
I don't see Europe lagging behind other regions in innovation when you look at the complete picture.
So that's where they're coming from.
We share their goal to see commerce grow through more electronic payments on cards and mobile phones and over the Internet.
And I think we have the ultimate open platform.
We allow new entrants to compete.
We result in more choice for consumers more choice for merchants.
We actually see ourselves as a part of the solution and that's how we're approaching the working with them.
We're kind of working with retailers we're working with telcos we're working with governments we're working with software companies and a whole lot of other methodologies to make European payments simpler and easier.
I don't think regulation is going to meet that need.
It's just going to lead to more fragmentation less innovation and probably will increase cost at the end of the day.
So I'm not big on this stuff.
I think we can work with them in a way to enable them to meet their needs of allowing more innovation allowing an open system allowing more people to play rather than trying to put up walls to close the system in some way.
And that's our attitude towards the Green Paper: positive in terms of participation but not completely agreeing with the basic premises on which the paper was put out.
And your next question comes from the line of Glenn Greene with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Martina I know you mentioned this in your prepared comments but there's clearly -- with the disconnect between the transaction processing fee growth and the transaction processing fee is almost a 10-point delta.
And I know you have the PIN transactions sort of driving that but it seems like an inordinate disconnect where it implies you had very healthy sort of PIN or Maestro transaction growth.
And I'm actually surprised that it's sort of happening so quickly.
Maybe a little bit of the color there.
Yes first of all we are very happy that that is happening quickly.
So obviously people are making their decisions to get the benefit of these kind of decisions.
But let me give you a little bit more detail on the difference between the 23 -- roughly 23% transaction growth and the roughly 12% transaction fee growth.
So there's about a 9  percentage point difference right between the 2 numbers.
And really 1/3 of that so roughly 3 percentage points are due to the business that we are getting in the United States on the PIN side.
And the remaining 6 percentage points are mostly due to what's still happening in The Netherlands where we're still getting incremental transactions.
There's a tiny little bit on Itaú in there but that's more natural growth.
But those are the 3 areas: the United States The Netherlands and a little bit Itaú in Brazil that are really driving this differential.
And as I've just told you about the January numbers where we're seeing transaction growth of 25% you should be starting to see an even bigger gap just because what I told you PIN transactions are coming in at a lower revenue yield.
That is incremental revenue that we are making in our P&amp;L.
Glenn it's Ajay.
Let me just add one aspect of that for you.
As I said we've managed to get a couple of those major U.S.
banks to use us for these PIN debit transactions.
And clearly you're seeing the beginning of the results of that which is both the fact that we've got the deal with them but also the fact that we've been able to make the operational side of this come together relatively quickly.
And that's the point I've been making for a couple of earnings calls that if we do this well there is some opportunity here for our company.
The second thing is -- to add a little color to what Martina said about Europe while The Netherlands has a very large impact on what we're doing finally the SEPA conversions are beginning to show results over the last few quarters.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 processing for domestic transactions in SEPA grew 256% over the same quarter last year.
For the year 2011 we're up 155%.
These are still all small numbers but the fact is that all that SEPA regulation change is finally beginning to give us some opportunity.
And your next question comes from the line of Julio Quinteros of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just real quickly on the merchant side.
Haven't really heard you guys talk too much about your efforts in -- on the merchant margin side.
So any color there in terms of routing exclusivity as we think about the merchants and their ability to influence post Durbin here? Well the fact is we have -- as I told you earlier we're looking at all this strategically.
We're not trying to put out some master policy statement on how we're going either at the big banks or the smaller banks or the merchants.
We're actually talking to all of them.
And clearly from the answer to the previous question you can see some benefit in our processed transaction growth from what's going on at PIN transaction in the United States that 3% incremental that Martina referred too.
So this is kind of what we're doing.
I'm just not going to be out publicly talking much more about it.
I'm just going to keep looking at it strategically.
And your next question comes from the line of David Hochstim with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Two things.
Can you just clarify what you were saying before about signing PIN business with top 25 banks? So in addition to Key in the fourth quarter did you sign some others as a second PIN network? Yes.
So what I said was that there's a couple of major U.S.
banks.
We have signed with them to become the alternative PIN brand at the back of their card.
And the result of that is showing up in the 3% incremental process transactions that Martina referred to in the total increase.
So that's kind of the basic idea that I was trying to say.
What I was talking about in the 25 banks  was a different context.
I was saying that as most people talk about the 25 large banks.
But I was also trying to talk about the independent banks and credit unions and the business we are building with them not just in PIN debit but also in credit and signature debit.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then can you just give us any color that you -- changes in the spending behavior in credit in the U.S.
and in Europe maybe that occurred in the fourth quarter? And did gasoline have much of an effect in changing spending? Not very on spending.
Gasoline actually Martina would tell you a little bit about but not really any change in behavior either on credit in the U.S.
or Europe.
Or for that matter -- because I'm assuming somebody will ask that or for that matter between signature and PIN behavior in the United States.
So it's early days so I don't know where that could go.
But right now I'm not seeing anything.
Yes gas we really haven't seen any changed behavior.
The numbers in terms of total volume in the U.S.
that is spent on gas purchases is still 8%.
From a transaction point of view it's still around about 15%.
So that -- sometimes it bounces a little up and down in the quarter but we really haven't seen anything much different.
I just want to add one more thing on the PIN business side David because there are also some things that we're seeing as the exclusivity on the back of the card went away.
For instance on the regional networks we're obviously seeing some of that business too because people are deciding to move to us rather than through the networks enrolled in [ph] the card originally.
So that's a little bit of a benefit for us.
And your next question comes from the line of Darrin Peller with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Ajay first of all thanks for the comments and the color on the U.S.
interchange.
I think that goes a long way for a lot of investors.
But maybe just talk a little more about the regulatory environment in Europe for a minute especially on a related-to-it topic.
In regard to the cross-border interchange lawsuit.
I know we're coming kind of close to a conclusion there.
We're expecting a ruling from the EU at some point maybe in the next 6 months.
Any concerns over that? Or maybe even -- any expectations of further intervention by country-specific regulators around this topic in the topic of interchange in Europe? Look right now this matter is sitting in the court so it's kind of difficult for me to tell you what's new between the time we finished the court hearings and now.
So nothing new [ph] has come to us.
We're not a party to any discussion of the court since then.
We're all sitting there and waiting for them to come to a conclusion based on all the arguments that were presented.
We continue to believe we had a good argument and we presented it with clarity.
But we're going to wait and see what happens.
There has been very little change at a country-by-country level to answer the second part of your question.
It's really more focused on the commission's ruling the court's ruling but also the Green Paper which by the way came out around the same time and is actually not quite connected.
That's a separate conversation but both things are going on in Europe right now.
And your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Hypothetically speaking what kind of impact do you think that the elimination of a no-surcharging rule could have? And if hypothetically something like that were on the table would there be any reason for concern over an unlevel playing field with Amex? So hypothetically speaking I have no clue because I genuinely believe -- I'll tell you my personal belief in this.
My personal belief is payment systems work less but best with least friction.
Whenever you introduce friction you always create the opportunity for consumers and merchants to feel less than perfect about their transaction.
That's kind of an obvious statement.
Having said that in different countries where surcharging was allowed it's not as though every merchant has jumped onto the bandwagon to actually introduce a surcharge.
That's partly because of the fact that they do see the value of electronic payment system from their perspective.
And it's partly because at the end of the day I believe that there is a good competitive situation out there for merchants and they have to watch their own competitive circumstances versus other merchants.
And I think that rule will come to play in some stable way once the clarity around hypothetical surcharging becomes clearer.
That's kind of how I think about this.
I don't like friction but it is what it is.
And as far as the Amex angle is concerned again your question assumes that the surcharging applies to some and not the others.
And I don't know if that's a hypothetical move too far.
So I don't know yet where that will go right so we'll see.
But that's kind of where I'm coming out on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Martina you've mentioned -- and I appreciate the difference in revenue yield on PIN debit versus other forms of payment.
Yet in the fourth quarter your net revenue yield was up nicely.
Is there something else kind of going on there that we should be thinking about whether it's mix or pricing or some other dynamic that might be overall offsetting what would be an otherwise lower revenue yield? Look first of all just to take the pricing comment out of the room here.
There was only very little pricing in our numbers.
It was about 1.5% on total revenues okay? So that -- yes it does impact a little bit but it's not a big deal.
The -- what's really also happening is that we obviously earn money both from a transaction point of view as well as from other businesses that are driving our revenues.
And they're not related to GDV.
So for instance what you see -- what our DataCash revenues are adding what our Access Prepaid revenues are adding what our consulting business is actually adding that's not related to the volume driver.
So you will see -- as we are growing those kind of businesses you would see some of these yields increasing.
And that would be then when you just look at our main processing business.
We said over time you should be seeing a slight decline in the yield as we're getting more and more transactions and volume growth and as we are incenting customers to run more volume over our network.
We have to look at those 2 sides.
And when you put them together you really have to pull them apart.
That's why I say once in awhile revenue yield is not the single metric you should use.
Because in addition to what Martina just described you've got the mix of cross-border volume you've got geographic mix you've got product mix.
Yield is a composite of many things.
And only one element of it is the PIN debit contribution to our total revenue which clearly has a lower yield as we've said -- but not a lower profitability just a lower revenue yield.
And your next question comes from the line of Jason Kupferberg with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Nice to see what I think most people would consider to be effectively a guidance raise here as you're taking the top and bottom line CAGRs out for the next 2 years.
Can you just talk about the general factors that gave you guys the confidence to do that at this point in time? You obviously had an extraordinary 2011 which does create a tough comparison.
And as you guys discussed there's still some macro uncertainty to cope with so I think it's all the more encouraging to see what you guys had to say for the 2012 2013 period.
Maybe if you can just give us some of the underlying factors that are driving the outlook that would be great.
So look Jason we are always going back to what we call the 3 concentric circles that we showed you at the Investor Day right? First of all PCE.
And where PCE in the world is a really important driver for all our baseline growth.
And there we made the comment that the United States is feeling a little bit better.
We're not really seeing much pain coming through at the moment in Europe but we're going to have to watch very closely because of the consumer confidence falling.
Asia-Pacific Latin America Middle East Africa is still behaving very nicely.
So we're feeling relatively comfortable in terms of where we put our mark from a PCE point of view for those 2 years as well as from a longer-term point of view.
Number two as you know we are really going after converting cash to electronic forms of payment.
85% of the world's transactions are still done in cash.
There is a lot of room to be working.
I mean you look at what our products people do and our services people how they help we are all focused on making sure that that 85% goes down to 80% to 75%.
Last but not least we obviously want more than our fair share of that right? So our last focus is how do we behave in the marketplace how do we get profitable market share and how do we put products out there so that we are actually successful doing that.
So don't forget about those 3 things.
And even if one of those things -- so the PCE number goes up and down depending on where the world is going we still have the 2 other things to drive.
That's what you see us do in 2011 and we feel based on where we are today -- I always have to reiterate this is a "today" comment okay? We feel that the next 2 years are looking good from that range point of view.
Let me add a little bit to that Jason.
I think of those 3 circles just like I was talking about the revenue yield earlier.
I think of these as composites that come together.
They are almost like multiple legs of our stool that we control as we play our game of management.
And so yes I don't control PCE growth.
But given where we are today in Martina's comments the U.S.
Latin America and Asia and Middle East look okay.
Europe looks okay today.
But history of them that when consumer sentiment begins to go down 3 or 4 quarters down the road it begins to show up.
So I'm a little less -- more cautious about that than I am about the other regions.
But then I'm very focused on all the things I've been telling you for the 1 or 2 years on changing the cash versus e-commerce ratio.
What's the electronic commerce ratio? Hence the things with the Social Security in the U.S.
or with the Punjab government in India or within Russia or things they're doing in Italy with the post office.
All those add up to trying to take away the traditional sanctuaries of cash and look at getting them to come to us.
Now in any one transaction they don't change the needle.
But when you do it consistently over a period of 2 or 3 years it does change what numbers we operate off.
And then of course there's the market share gain which -- we are competitive guys.
We like to win some good market share.
And that's the third angle.
So all 3 give us a balance in the different legs to our stool.
And your next question comes from the line of Bob Napoli with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Facebook released their S-1 yesterday.
I'm sure you knew that.
But in their S-1 they showed $500 million of payment revenue.
And I wondered if -- most of that tied to virtual games.
And I just wondered if that surprised you and just kind of what -- how you work with Facebook and how the economics are.
And if -- their focus on the payments market is -- and do you view that more as an opportunity for MasterCard or a concern? Well they've got their revenue actually -- I've read the S-1 in great detail and was interested in the Facebook IPO from a personal perspective as well.
I think it's an interesting development.
The -- I'm not surprised at all by their payments revenue because how do you load the Facebook credit right now? You do it through various ways which includes our card.
So I cannot see that data and I understand it.
I actually think that for us working with them is a huge opportunity just as it is for other people as well.
We're not the only -- we're not the only girls at the dance there's others too.
And so we're all chatting with them and we're all trying to do business with them.
And we do some things with them already.
And we're going to be doing more with them I'm sure as the years go by.
So it's the same approach I have with a lot of other opportunities.
I think new technology is an absolute opportunity for MasterCard if we engage with it and we work with it well.
We share the same questions on telecom companies 2 years ago and we've shown you over 2 years.
We engaged with them.
We worked with them.
And in fact they realize our value we realize their value and there's a business to be made in working the 85% of transactions that still are out there that's coming to electronic commerce.
And so there's a much bigger space out there than getting worried by the risks.
I think it's an opportunity every day of the week.
And your next question comes from the line of Rod Bourgeois with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk about the long-term plan on the operating margin front.
It seems like you're saying today that there's possible room for some margin expansion in 2012.
But I also wanted -- after 2012 I mean are you saying that we shouldn't be expecting margin expansion after 2012? So if you could just clarify what's the swing factor that matters the most for margins in 2012? And then what's your current plan for post 2012 on the margin front? Rod I'll try explaining this again.
My approach to operating margin came out of the context when we were originally saying we would expand our margin by 800 basis points every year.
All I was trying to do was to say given this 85% of cash out there given the unbelievable opportunity in this industry I would rather keep the margin at a very healthy minimum of 50% and take the money that generates for the company with our revenue growth and with that leverage in our P&amp;L and put it towards making tomorrow even better for our company as compared to merely taking the 50% to 52% to 54% to 56% to 58%.
That's the context in which I gave it.
I've also said that if revenues are doing better I'll let that flow straight through to margin which I've done over the course of 2011.
And that's kind of how I think about it.
So in 2012 right now we feel pretty good about the fact that we can get deliver more than the 50%.
We're even telling you we may actually be able to deliver more than what we ended 2011 with as a year.
But if investment opportunities come up that today we have not foreseen and if the economy looks to be in decent shape and I feel that's a good risk-to-reward tradeoff I'm going to use some of that money to still meet my commitment to you while putting it into the long term.
That's the angle with which I look at operating margin.
I look at revenue growth and net income and EPS growth as the 2 things that are the gating factors.
I look at the operating margin as if I can keep at least 50 which I think is an extremely healthy place to be then put whatever I can get back into growth.
If I can't think of good ideas it goes right back to you as the shareholder.
That's the perspective on operating margin.
So Rod for each one of the years that we have in the 3-year guidance we said a 50%-plus operating margin.
And look in 2011 yes we had a little bit of a margin improvement but we did precisely what Ajay said.
We didn't run after that particular margin improvement.
We had a certain set of facts on the top line.
We made the investments that we believe we need to make in order to actually make a better future for the company in the -- for the company to come.
And that's the investments that we did.
So the operating margin is really a result of those kind of managerial decisions.
And every year will be a little different on that but we are focused on making sure that we at least keep this very healthy 50%.
Plus.
Plus.
Correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one final question.
And this is probably a quick one.
Visa has a common switch strategy and a network participation fee.
We know that there's not much detail on how those things will be implemented.
But can you assert today a plan on what MasterCard will do on the common switch front or on the network participation fee front or is it premature for you to assert [ph] ? I told you when you were here.
Yes yes look I told you when you were here we actually can -- thanks to what we do with Maestro by the way.
That's exactly how it works.
So it's not that we can't do that.
I'll say that to you again and again we can do it.
It's not a revelation to us.
So just so you get that context we have the ability the capability and the operational competence in our technology.
And we've been doing it for years in Europe and elsewhere where Maestro is used.
As far as the network participation fee or a merchant strategy or a detailed strategy around Durbin is concerned I don't feel that I need to go out with a blanket statement of a strategy because I'm not the one protecting the incumbency.
Somebody else is.
And so in their shoes I may well have done what they're doing.
But I'm not in their shoes fortunately this time.
And so I'm doing it my way.
And my way is showing up in the processed transaction growth that you're seeing.
And so that's what I'm going to say.
I'm not going to be able to give you much more unfortunately.
And your next question comes from the line of Bryan Keane with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the First Data spin track PIN debit has been taking some share for signature.
But I think you said Ajay that you hadn't really seen that.
I guess maybe do you expect PIN to be taking some share versus signature? And I saw the EMV  announcement you guys made this week.
It sounds like you guys are open to chip and PINs.
So I would assume that PIN would be -- could be increasing in the future.
So you're actually onto a very interesting topic which I -- which is fascinating.
Truly I haven't seen that change.
Part of that is because remember we were starting from a smaller place so for me I'm getting some incremental volume in the door.
And I haven't really seen a big move today between PIN and signature.
Now let's step back from today because today is still only a few months after the Durbin and non-exclusivity rules went into play.
There's so many things going on right now in that space.
Think about -- there's no real incentive for a merchant to move from one to the other because the merchant discount rate has just got equalized.
I mean interchange for the issuer got equalized.
So nobody's got an incentive to push one way or the other given the way it is today.
But if you look out further if you think about creating a payment ecosystem for mobile payments for electronic payments out a few years we really believe that EMV is the right way to go.
Now what we're trying to do is rather than mandate it is to consult with merchants issuers and other partners which we have done systematically over the last few months and then finally said let's create the right incentives for people to go to the best way in the long-term which would be the most secure way which would be that way of going to EMV and PIN.
And that's the chip and PIN angle that we're trying to put out there.
I see this as a journey.
I don't see it as a -- as it'll happen tomorrow or day after.
I think it's a journey.
And what we're trying to lay out in that EMV announcement is where we think the journey would lead to.
I can't tell you today how long it will take to get there because I suspect some issuers and some merchants will roll on quicker others will roll on slower.
They all have their own compunctions and I kind of understand that.
So that's where I'm coming from.
And your final question comes from the line of Greg Smith with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Martina I'm still confused about the transaction processing fees the fact that they declined sequentially in the fourth quarter.
I understand the pricing impact and everything but was there -- or the PIN debit impact.
Was there any sort of issuers hitting new pricing tiers or anything else going on that could have impacted that revenue line item? No.
We have seasonality that's typical.
You have to really -- you shouldn't look at this sequentially.
You really have to look at that versus the year-ago quarter and that's where I made my remarks that you really have to compare the 23% transaction processing growth versus the 12% transaction fee growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And let me just sneak in one last one.
Just as we think about moving to chip cards in the U.S.
and mobile globally how should we think about that impacting MasterCard's economics broadly over the next few years? Favorably I'm hoping.
That's where I'm coming from.
So I hope to participate in it.
I hope to get more volume out of the conversion of cash.
I hope to get most secure transactions for my partners in the merchant world and the issuer world.
That's kind of where I'm going with it yes.
It's all part of driving our top line the way that we talked about it.
I'd now like to hand the call back over to our CEO Ajay for closing remarks.
Thank you.
So let me leave you with just a few quick closing thoughts.
And thank you all for those questions folks.
We had a terrific 2011.
Our financial performance was driven by strength not just in our base business as well as tremendous execution by our employees across our regions which led to some significant business wins.
And that's the 3 concentric circle discussion that Martina got into.
At the same time we have made targeted investments and partnerships in our strategic focus areas.
And I hope by doing that what we're doing is to lay the foundation for longer-term growth.
For the year ahead we're very mindful of concerns around how the European economy will fare and  any knock-on effects around the world.
The main effect on this -- the main impact of this would obviously be on that global consumer spending growth.
But PCE is only one of our growth drivers the other 2 being the proportion of electronic-to-cash payments and our share of that electronic portion.
Those 2 areas are where we are focused.
We will continue to execute at a local level to displace cash by driving issuance acceptance in new categories and by delivering the benefits of electronic payments to more people more institutions and more merchants.
We're trying to ensure that we capture more than our fair share of payments growth.
So once again thank you for your participation.
Thank you for your support for our company and thank you for your time today.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 MasterCard Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Pam and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Pam.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today either by phone or webcast for a discussion about our first quarter 2012 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at mastercard.com.
The earnings release and slide deck have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A dial-in replay of this call will be available for one week through May 9.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I will now turn the call over to our President and CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
So in the first quarter we reported a net revenue growth as reported of 17%.
Now that's driven by healthy process transaction and volume growth and this helped to fuel net income growth of 21% and EPS growth of 25%.
We continue to see some improvement in U.S.
economic news with unemployment dropping to 8.2% a 3-year low below the 9% we saw a year ago.
Consumer confidence while roughly flat the month is higher than a year ago and of course this was offset by news the housing market has recently hit its lowest level in a decade.
You've seen the ADP payroll report this morning.
Having said all that the overall trend continued to have a positive impact on total consumer retail spending as reflected in our SpendingPulse insight which showed that in March U.S.
consumer increased spending in all 11 retail sectors that we track.
The strongest growth came from restaurants apparel hardware and electronics.
Now this trend should continue for a sustained period of time.
We're going to look for additional improvement in unemployment and a positive turn in housing prices.
Having said all that the strength in consumer spending as a whole also showed up in MasterCard's own U.S.
GDV which is up 14% for the first quarter.
In Europe quarterly volumes remained strong growing 19% slightly above the level we've actually seen over the recent quarters.
Now this is driven by both strong cross-border and domestic volume growth.
And similar to the last quarter process transactions in the region were up over 40% in the first quarter as they continue to benefit from the roll-on of domestic processing in The Netherlands.
And while there has been renewed concerns in the press about European consumer confidence it's little interesting fact it actually held steady in the Eurozone this past quarter after significant declines in the second half of 2011.
It does take a few quarters before changing consumer sentiment impacts our volumes in this region.
And as such we are watching our European business very closely.
Looking at our first quarter we saw process volumes of Portugal Italy Ireland Greece and Spain in aggregate continue to post growth rates in the mid-teens.
New business wins particularly in Italy and Ireland were compensating for the slowing in Spain and Greece in these peripheral economies as they're called.
Elsewhere in the world Latin America the Asia Pacific/Middle East/Africa region volume growth remains healthy with domestic and cross-border volume growth rates all greater than 20%.
Volume growth in these regions will have difficult comparisons particularly in the second and third quarters of 2012.
Also be mindful that any softening in the major economies of Europe or the U.S.
would likely negatively impact these regions as well.
But in the meanwhile we continue to execute our business strategy.
And the first item I want to focus on is the U.S.
debit market where we are executing well in a challenging and shifting environment.
We mentioned last year that the primary element of our U.S.
debit strategy post the Durbin Amendment was to maximize our presence on these cards.
Before the regulations went into effect MasterCard functionality was an approximately 25% of U.S.
debit cards.
Now MasterCard is enabled on about half including 3 of the largest portfolios in the market.
In addition we estimate that our share of PIN debit transactions exceeded 20% in April up from high-single digits last year.
It's too soon to know how routing will play out longer-term.
In the short term we have roughly doubled our presence in U.S.
debit cards and nearly tripled our share of U.S.
PIN debit transactions.
At this point I usually walk through a series of business highlights from around the world.
But instead given that we are past the 1 year anniversary of both the acquisitions of DataCash and Access Prepaid I thought it would be helpful to use this time to update you on the progress we've made with these businesses.
Recall that these extend MasterCard's capabilities in the payments value chain in fast-growing categories e-commerce and prepaid.
In both cases the integration into the MasterCard business is largely complete and behind us.
We have been moving people across the businesses as you would expect such as Ajay Bhalla who moved over from our Asia Pacific/Middle East/Africa region to run the DataCash business; and Neville Hall MasterCard's new Global Head of Compliance who's coming to us from the Access Prepaid business and there are others at all levels below them.
And this type of movement will continue to ensure that we build over time and integrate a culture of innovation and accountability.
Now let me talk about each business in a bit more depth.
Let's start with Access Prepaid which we bought from Travelex in April 2011.
For us to be successful in prepaid around the world we need to have 3 core capabilities: brand processing and program management.
This Access Prepaid acquisition provides us the program management capabilities across multiple markets with a strong position in the all-important travel vertical and a position we will continue to leverage for future growth.
In this past year 2011 Access Prepaid saw substantial growth.
Volume on Access Prepaid cards increased roughly 25% versus 2010.
And just as important we are continuing to build a foundation for future growth.
Since the end of 2010 we have entered 7 additional markets including Germany China India and South Korea.
In India for example we signed a deal with Thomas Cook the largest money changer in that country.
They will begin issuing Access Prepaid MasterCards in the second half of this year displacing the competitive cards that they currently distribute.
In Australia we launched a multi-currency purse that can hold as many as 10 currencies.
This capability allowed us to gain a foothold with National Australia Bank which traditionally has been an issuer of a competitive cards.
So now let's move onto our DataCash Internet Gateway business which we purchased about 18 months back.
DataCash enables acquirers to efficiently gain new business.
It also helps merchants and consumers connect via e-commerce or any type of device the personal computer the phone or a tablet with speed dependability and security.
And as we connect more high-volume merchants and more of the world's leading acquirers together we increase our opportunity to drive acceptance and preference for MasterCard products.
Like other e-commerce gateways DataCash handles non-MasterCard transactions as well.
So even if you don't switch the transaction which does happen as you know in many markets we'll still see it.
We have an opportunity to gain insights from the breadth of transactions we see.
Similar to Access Prepaid we are expanding the geographic reach of DataCash services helping to drive nearly 25% transaction growth over the past year.
Let me tell you a little bit about how we are growing this gateway services business.
The first way we go to market is to sell to merchants directly and then deliver that business to acquirers.
For the past year or so we have directly signed up several thousand merchants including many in the travel sector.
I'll give you few examples: Jetstar and Scoot both airlines in Asia/Pacific/Middle East/Africa; Arik Air in the U.K; Eurostar the European rail operator; Volotea a Spanish airline; South Africa.
We've added these merchants to a portfolio of customers that already included marquee names like Qantas and Singapore Airlines.
There have also been numerous merchants beyond the travel sector such as Groupon in Taiwan and several retailers in the U.K.
including Ocado a grocery delivery service and Sports Direct Group.
That's the first way we go to market.
The second go-to-market strategy is to white label our services for acquirers to include in their offering to merchants.
So Unicredit for example an Italian acquirer also a big client of ours as a bank is live with the gateway functionality and first started servicing merchants in Eastern Europe.
Elavon part of U.S.
Bancorp is also actively using our white label offering for its own newly launched gateway solution in Europe and there are more of these in the hopper to come.
The third way we go to market is to bundle our capabilities as part of another company's prepackaged e-commerce solution.
So take the example of Capgemini which as part of its consultancy business works with large merchants to implement payment solutions.
We are prepackaged in there.
Finally we are leveraging our Internet gateway capabilities to gain further entry into large and fast-growing markets to maximize our participation in those markets and their growth.
So for example the Japanese e-commerce market is the third largest in the world.
DataCash have just completed integration with JCB to enable multinational merchants to accept payments on their website from JCB cardholders in Japan.
Similar example moving to China which is projected to be the second-largest e-commerce market in the world by 2016.
DataCash have successfully completed the integration technical integration with China UnionPay which as you know was part of our MOU with them thereby opening cross-border e-commerce for consumers in China.
We're already working with a number of large airlines and retailers travel agencies to enable use of these services.
We're also in the process of customizing our fraud system for the Chinese market.
That's an area of great interest in that location.
These fraud management tools actually are excellent and as you will recall were one of the primary reasons we purchased DataCash.
They provide cross-sell opportunities to existing customers as well as open the door with potential new customers as they address a major paying point with e-commerce merchants.
And as we connect to more merchants we increase our ability to deliver these fraud management tools as well as other value-added services.
So with that let me turn the call over to Martina for a detailed update on our financial for the first quarter.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Turning to Page 3 of our slide deck you can see that we're delivering a solid top line and bottom line results.
Net revenue grew 17% driven by strong volume and transaction growth as well as new deals.
Pricing contributed about 3 percentage points of this growth.
Total operating expenses increased 14%.
That resulted in an operating income growth of 20%.
Bottom line we delivered net income of $682 million up 21% and diluted earnings per share of $5.36 up 25%.
Cash flow from operations was $427 million.
We ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and investments of about $5.1 billion.
While not shown on this chart let me put our results in the same terms as our long-term financial objectives which are on a constant currency basis.
On that basis net revenue growth was 19% and EPS growth was 27%.
So there was a 2-percentage-point impact on each quarter from FX.
Operating margin was essentially unaffected.
On the next couple of slides we are presenting the operational metrics for the first quarter of 2012.
So let's turn to Page 4 and here you can see that worldwide growth dollar volume or GDV was up 18% on a local-currency basis including double-digit growth in all regions.
U.S.
volume growth was 14% driven by almost 21% debit growth as a result of stronger underlying volumes including prepaid as well as recent signature debit wins.
Credit volumes in the U.S.
grew about 7% with consumer credit growth staying steady with previous quarters in the 3 to 4 percentage range and commercial credit posting its seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
Outside of the United States our volume growth was 21% on a local-currency basis including about 23% growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific/Middle East/Africa and 19% growth in Europe.
The growth rate of volumes outside of the U.S.
were driven by strength in both MasterCard credit and debit volumes which were up 20% and 22% respectively.
Cross-border volume grew 18% on a local-currency basis and we saw double-digit growth in every region including growth rates above 20% in Latin America and APMEA.
In total European cross-border volume growth was in the high-teens consistent with previous quarters.
Turning to Slide 5.
You can see that process transactions were up 29% and this is the highest quarterly growth rate for process transactions since we went public in 2006.
The growth was primarily driven by the U.S.
and Europe as we continue to see the impact of debit regulation in the U.S.
as well as new deal signings in both regions.
Global card growth was 9% to 1.8 billion MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards.
So now let's turn to Page 6 where we can discuss our revenue growth in a bit more detail.
The higher volume trends that I described when discussing GDV drove domestic assessments and cross-border volume fees growth of 16% and 15% respectively.
Transaction processing fees grew 21% driven mainly by the 29% process transaction growth.
So there continues to be gap in these 2 growth rates.
Also this gap is slightly smaller this quarter than it was last quarter due to pricing.
If you exclude the impact of pricing the gap actually widens to about 12 percentage points.
The majority of this gap was due to the addition of transactions outside of the U.S.
Recall that the incremental revenue from most of these new transactions comes at a lower-than-average revenue yield.
Total revenue grew 29% driven by the acquisition of Access Prepaid which anniversaried at the beginning of April as well as other non-volume-related fees.
And finally rebates and incentives increased 24% driven by the impact of new and renewed deals as well as strong volume growth.
Moving to Page 7 for some detail on expenses.
So within total operating expenses you see that general and administrative expenses increased 17%.
5 percentage points of this growth came from the inclusion of Access Prepaid and the remaining 12 percentage points primarily came from the investment in strategic growth initiatives.
Advertising and marketing expense was actually 3% lower than last year's first quarter mainly due to the impact of foreign currency.
And depreciation and amortization increased about 30% due to the amortization of intangible assets in Access Prepaid and increased capitalized software associated with our strategic projects.
Turning now to Slide 8.
Let's discuss 2012 starting with an update of what we have seen for the second quarter through April 28.
Our cross-border volumes grew about 18% globally in line with the growth that we saw in the first quarter.
This was driven by continued healthy growth in all regions.
In April our U.S.
process volume of proxy for GDV grew about 10%.
This is somewhat lower than the 15% we saw in the first quarter largely due to the impact of the extra day in the quarter leap year the tax refund programs that we've seen in the first quarter and the lacking of new business wins.
Process volume growth outside of the U.S.
was just above 16% slightly below the 19% growth that we saw in the first quarter primarily due to the leap year.
And in Europe which I know is of particular interest to many of you process volume growth softened slightly by a couple of percentage points.
Globally process transaction growth was about 32% and reflects the impact of U.S.
debit rule changes as well as the continued roll-on of domestic transactions in The Netherlands.
Based on what we see now let me give you some thoughts for full year 2012.
So we had a good start off to the year though we do not expect the first quarter net revenue growth rate to be the run rate for the balance of the year.
In addition to the items I just mentioned which benefited Q1 versus April there are several other factors that you should keep in mind the anniversary of the Access Prepaid acquisition the lapping of our April 2011 pricing and the expected timing of new and renewed deals over the balance of the year.
We also have generally tougher comps in the next 3 quarters given the very strong revenue growth we saw in the last 9 months of 2011.
So while Q1 saw consumer confidence at decent levels as Ajay told you this is an economic indicator that we're watching very carefully particularly in the U.S.
and Europe.
So you should keep this in mind as you're looking out over the rest of the year.
Assuming the euro trades around the 130 level and the Brazilian real around the 175 level for the rest of the year we continue to expect about a 2 to 3 percentage point headwind to as-reported net revenue net income and EPS growth for full year 2012.
Based on our current plans for 2012 strategic investments we continue to believe that we might have an opportunity to deliver some operating margin expansion this year.
However the amount of any improvement will depend on several factors including global economic conditions and investment opportunities that might surface during the year.
Our plans currently call for G&amp;A growing at a higher rate than advertising and marketing expense.
We also expect our depreciation and amortization to grow by roughly $30 million this year as a result of our strategic investment activity.
And as I said at a conference earlier this year other income and expense should be negative for the year driven by anticipated equity losses associated for the 2 Telefónica JVs in Latin America which are typical in the early stages of many JVs especially in these new spaces.
Also remember that our cash is held in extremely safe and liquid investments which currently offer de minimis yields.
Turning to the tax rate we now believe that we could see a full year tax rate of around 31% versus our previous expectation of slightly below 32%.
This is due to certain tax planning initiatives from which we expect to recognize some benefits that were not previously anticipated along with a likelihood that some local tax examination could result in a onetime benefit to our 2012 full year effective tax rate.
So for modeling purposes you should not assume that all of the benefit in the tax line drops to the bottom line since we would opportunistically look to reinvest some of these savings back into the business.
Finally we remain focused on our objectives for the 2012 to 2013 period of a net revenue compounded annual growth rate of 12% to 14% and minimum annual operating margin of 50% and an earnings per share CAGR of at least 20%.
These objectives are all on a constant currency basis and exclude any new acquisitions.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thank you Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Pam? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of David Hochstim with Buckingham Research.
I wonder -- yesterday the federal reserve board put out some updated data on debit interchange.
And I wondered if you could comment about their observation that network fees made by large issuers seem to have declined from 2009 to the end of 2011.
You didn't -- obviously you didn't talk about acquirer fees or any other pricing changes you've made.
Your pricing's held up but I just wonder if you have any comment on what the fed seems to be suggesting.
David I'm going to take that one.
First of all as you said the results were only released yesterday so we're still working through the details in terms of what was really released.
But when we're looking at the published network fees there seem to be some potential disconnects in the comparisons and we want to understand those before we draw any conclusions.
So I'm going to give you a couple of disconnects that we need to understand.
So first of all the fed compared the network fees in the fourth quarter of 2011 with full year 2009.
As you know any fourth quarter is usually a high-spend quarter.
So issuers will pay effectively lower fees since core fees are tiered based on volume.
We can't really compare a fourth quarter to a full year and that's one thing we're just going to have to deep dive into it more.
The second thing is the fed had actually requested different categories of network fees for each of these periods.
So the calculation and the comparison of the pure cost transaction is unclear.
In 2011 I can tell you the fed had asked the networks to provide only off-tier [ph] settlement fees.
And back in 2009 we provided all fees collected on a transaction.
So therefore the network fees that have been compared in the report might be apples and oranges.
The last thing I want to tell you is that we have actually not changed our fee structures to issuers on the debit business.
In fact as you know in every quarter we are going after our business very surgically and opportunistically.
And we're signing deals both signature deals and PIN deals in every quarter and quite frankly you can see those results in our numbers today.
So a lot more to clarify but I told you as much as we know at this point in time.
And your next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wonder if you could give us a little more detail little more color on the U.S.
process transactions growth.
I think you said it was above or globally above 30% in April and some benefit from the April 1 exclusivity provision.
Can you give us any color on what your U.S.
volume looks like in April on a process transaction basis and where you're seeing those gains? Look April is very similar to the first quarter but it's a higher growth rate right.
So the growth rate in first quarter was 29%.
In April we're seeing 32% and the growth is both benefited by what's happening in the United States as well as The Netherlands but very very typical trend.
In the 29% by the way that we saw in the first quarter we believe that a fairly significant portion probably in the neighborhood of 13 percentage points is due to new deals and really adds to what we need to be doing in the market.
April is not shaping up any different it's the same just continue to get the business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my focus was more on the PIN debit business and how much that's moving the needle in April? Again as I said before it's very similar to the first quarter.
April is just an extrapolation for what happened in the first quarter.
We're seeing more PIN business.
You just got to remember that the -- a lot of the cards that got enabled for PIN didn't get enabled in the first day of January.
They kind of got enabled over the course of first quarter.
So over the next 2 3 4 quarters you will get moving around on the PIN debit transaction growth because you will get cards coming on but you'll also see routing changes as merchants and acquirers respond to what issuers networks do.
So it's going to be a little bit of in and outs for the next few months and that's how we think about it.
But our first task as we said was to get onto these cards and be enabled on them.
That's what we've been trying to do over the last few months.
And our next task is to try and surgically manage as much of that routing as makes economic sense for us.
That's kind of how we're approaching this business.
And your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Question on your EMV initiative.
What kind of merchant pushback are you getting if any? And what do you see as some of the hurdles to completing the migration by the 2015 liability transfer date that you've established? All right.
So Bill the fact is the way we went about EMV was that we actually created a consultative process with a ton of merchants issuers and acquirers and had them come in together and talk about what's involved in saying that EMV should happen as compared to just mandating it which we felt would have been one way of doing it but probably not the best way to get so many people together on the same page.
And thus far by and large the reaction of the roadmap has kind of been sort of the same consistency of we've got to make sure that we can get this done.
We've got to make sure that the investment that goes into it make sense.
We've got to -- there's a lot of moving parts around how it will actually get implemented.
What we did was we created a set of incentives for merchants and issuers to use the most secure verification methods and we created a sliding scale on that security angle.
So the more secure your verification as an issuer or as a merchant the liability shifts and the incentives go towards that party.
And that's what they're trying to work their way through and understand and work with.
And so frankly right now what we've got is a good dialogue going on.
At this early stage you expect some issuers some merchants to go in slightly different directions and that's what we are seeing.
But in truth when they come together we have a healthy dialogue.
They kind of come around saying "Makes sense right thing to do.
It gives more security." The question is if they're incented it makes it easier for us to do it all that have been factored into the way we've constructed our EMV strategy.
But it's very early days and it's going to take a few quarters to work its way through the way we actually deliver what they're going to say they will deliver.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you talk about how we should think about the economic impact to your P&amp;L given that EMV economics -- our understanding is they're PIN-debit-like? How should we think about that? And that's it.
So first of all just because by the implementation of EMV you should not be jumping that everything goes to PIN economics.
For instance EMV has been rolled out in a significant way in Europe and you have -- there's absolutely no difference from a signature credit PIN point of view for instance from a pricing.
So you cannot analogize EMV everything goes to PIN pricing.
It does not.
And your next question comes from the line of Bryan Keane with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> What's been the impact on the market on Visa's new merchant pricing initiative and maybe you can update us on the strategic direction MasterCard plans to take due to what Visa's doing on merchant pricing? So Bryan it's Ajay.
And I -- in truth you've got to ask you Visa what they see as the response from merchants to that.
From our perspective it's very early.
I haven't seen much happen.
There's -- remember the first quarter was where all this is being constructed.
It's really over the next few quarters as I said in response to an earlier question that these routing transactions will become clearer.
And as I've said a couple of times now our focus is going to be on making sure that we operate strategically and surgically to try and keep those routings with us to the extent we can and to the extent it makes sense economically.
The -- we did the same thing with getting ourselves on the back of issuers' cards.
We're going to do the same thing with working with merchants and acquirers on the routing.
So it's early stages.
That's where it is today.
Research Division</strong> Okay just a quick follow-up.
Any update on the mercenary exchange litigation settlement? I know we have a trial date set that's coming up here in September.
No nothing new at all there nothing new.
No change to our views by the way.
And the next question comes from the line from Darrin Peller with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Over the past few quarters we've seen obviously Huntington Sovereign Swedbank and then in Europe Italy and Netherlands and then PIN debit wins among others.
I think you mentioned Italy and now Ireland actually which sounds a little newer.
Can you just help us understand the opportunity actually in Ireland? And then more longer-term and just overall are these opportunities similar to what we've seen in The Netherlands and obviously in Italy? And how long is this runway? And then lastly is there other conversions like the Huntington or Sovereigns that we can expect in the near few quarters? So the fact is that we had a lower market share in some of these markets as you know and that's what we are basically trying to win back deals in.
The Ireland deal win is the beginnings of what we hope will turn our business around Ireland but it's going to be a 2 3 4 5 year slog because typically deals with the other banks have signed up with competitive brands for certain number of year at a time.
So I kind of tend to view these as building blocks and I tend to view our business and approach to selling in these countries as building the right relationships bringing value to these clients and starting to win small business and the ones that have large business tie-ups with competitors and then wait for our opportunity to get a bigger deal with them.
That's true of every market around the world.
What you're seeing in us in the last couple of years is an engagement with issuers and merchants both -- both financial institution issuers and non-FI issuers as well as merchants around the world to build our position and our relationship with them.
So we're in the right place we're trying to take advantage of opportunities as they come up.
It's nothing more strategic or rocket science than that.
It's global fashion selling.
Now as far as what's going on in The Netherlands is concerned The Netherlands in particular was a large onetime switch of the way in which those transactions are processed from a local debit switch to us.
Now that's giving us a lot of benefit in lap.
We're working on other such things in SEPA as a whole in the European area our -- actually our transactions seen are up 280% over the prior quarter which by the way is similar to the number in the prior quarter.
The fact is we are beginning to see transactions in France and Belgium and Germany and Italy not with the same kind of impact as The Netherlands mass movement but we're beginning to see them.
So I think we are on the spot of building our business brick-by-brick and deal-by-deal and what we're getting is the result of that.
So I wouldn't conclude that there's some dramatic thing that's going to happen tomorrow neither would I conclude that the runway is nearing anywhere near an end.
We've got a lot of market share to gain and bigger than that we've got this whole fight against cash which is where our real growth is coming from.
So we've got both things to do here but it's going to take years to fulfill that strategy.
And your next question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess when I look at the rebates and incentive lines I look at it relative to gross revenues.
That percentage was up like 100 basis points to 25%.
Can you just talk about how much of that increase was driven by wins versus renewals and then how we should think about that line going forward? Sanjay first of all a lot of this was actually driven by the volume increases that we had.
So the business has increased.
So obviously with volume increases you're paying more rebates out and then a smaller portion of that was related to new and renewed wins.
I'm not going to break that up for you.
But again yes you didn't see an increase in this quarter.
I also said in our thoughts of 2012 we -- and as Ajay was just saying we are running after other deals.
And depending on when they come through in which quarter you will see some changes to rebates and incentives.
But I know you guys have a love for looking at rebates and incentives as a percent of growth.
I -- look in 2010 the contra as percent of growth was actually 27%.
It was 25% in 2011.
It's now a little higher.
As you can appreciate over the last 5 to 6 years first of all it will jump around by year depending on what kind of deals we do and what the volume development is in that particular year and you have the same kind of phenomena also on the quarterly basis.
So all I want to tell you with all of these is there is nothing to read into this.
This is just us going after the business the right way.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom McCrohan with Janney.
Research Division</strong> Can you help us quantify how much of your revenues today have already benefited from your increased penetration in the U.S.
debit business as a result of Durbin? And then looking ahead can you help us quantify what you see to be the incremental revenue you expect to pick up? I know it's hard to -- there's probably going to be a range based on your execution of getting your brand put on a lot of the issuer debit cards here in the United States.
So just trying to get a revenue impact from all of these activities.
Look.
I mean the only statistics that we have from a revenue perspective out there on the debit side is that at one point in time we told you that debit is about what 14% of revenues.
It's a little lower at this point in time 13% of revenues but that's just because of how actually our overall business has been growing both in the United States on the credit side as well as overseas outside of the United States.
So revenues are growing in the debit business.
And as you can see from Ajay's remarks earlier this morning we're winning very nicely both from a signature as well as from a PIN share point of view.
I'll give you this little additional thought around this but I'm not going to make a prediction going forward on what I think revenues could be from PIN debit because of 2 reasons.
One is I don't like making those predictions and two I'm genuinely unsure of how routing will play out over the next few quarters.
So I actually haven't really got a lot of revenue built in from there in my expectations.
But you have to remember the dynamics of this revenue.
PIN revenue in the United States is a low-yield business.
And by low I mean substantially lower than the other yields we have.
The only good deals is because they're leveraging our fixed cost infrastructure for driving this volume even though its billions of transaction incrementally.
The good news is that the profit yield from these transactions is still attractive to our company.
And so we look at it that way that our revenue yield will probably be small but our profit yield will be attractive enough for us to keep going after it.
But it's difficult to predict given that we've just completed one part of the chessboard game which is the getting ourselves on the back of the issuer cards.
The second part is going on right now with the merchant acquirer incentive play.
And then there will be the third part that will come in a year or 2 which will be the increase in payments towards EMV which will also change this mix a little.
So I kind of view this as interesting nice to have worth showing that we can bid our share on it but kind of move from it.
There's a lot more going on in our business that has greater revenue impact than just the PIN debit business in the United States.
And your next question comes from the line of Patrick O'Brien with Brown Advisory.
A couple of questions.
Your tax rate is going down quite a bit over the years I guess as the earnings from lower tax jurisdictions become more important.
Is that cash now trapped in low-cash low-tax environments or do you have a policy for repatriating it? Okay Patrick it's Martina.
So let me take that.
First of all yes your observation is absolutely right.
We have been working on our tax rate quite considerably.
There are number of factors that you work on from a tax planning point of view one of which is obviously which -- the one that you were referencing.
You make earnings in lower tax jurisdictions.
It's lower tax there to the extent you can actually lock those earnings into those jurisdictions and then you have the whole issue of how can you bring the cash back.
I have to tell you we are in a very early innings of this game.
MasterCard essentially was a 2-country kind of company: United States as well as Belgium and Europe and we've been diversifying quite significantly from that.
You might -- when you read our annual report as well as our Qs you might be able to pick up that we've been actually trying to make sure that our Asia Pacific/Middle East/Africa business get recognized as such doesn't get run back into the United States but gets run into Singapore where we obviously negotiated a great tax agreement with the Singaporean authorities.
And over time and this will take a long time we will be having the benefits of those kind of structure.
At this point in time we have mostly cash sitting in the United States as well as in Europe.
We have not built up a significant amount of cash in other jurisdictions and with the way that we built up our structure for the foreseeable future so let's say for the next few years I see absolutely no restrictions on being able to utilize the cash wherever we need to utilize the cash in the world be it for what we're doing at the moment from a share repurchase program point of view or at some point in time acquisitions.
You suffer a tax consequence for using that cash in a low-tax jurisdiction? What I wanted to tell you is at this point in time I don't have that tax consequence because we put some planning strategies in place as well as we are only in the early innings of actually pushing earnings out to lower tax jurisdictions.
So it's going to take some years to be building up cash in those lower tax jurisdictions and then it's going to take some time for us to ever having to use those -- that cash somewhere else.
The only thing I'd add to that is think about what those jurisdictions are.
We are investing a lot of time effort and energy into building our footprint across Asia and in Singapore is the hub of where we're putting a lot of this.
And in truth I see a lot of opportunity for growth in that part of the world over the next 2 years.
So in fact if that cash were to be there I believe it will give us some opportunity for adding to our footprint and our franchise through an acquisitive nature of growth in that part of the world.
So I think there's going to be opportunities to use that right now.
We're fortunately at very early stages of this.
So as Martina was trying to tell you we are in a type of stage where we have this as an issue.
We actually see this as a big opportunity for our company over the next 4 5 years.
And your next question comes from the line of Donald Fandetti with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Ajay I just talked to the bank issuers on the card side they clearly seem to be struggling with some regulatory issues from the CFPB and others.
I'm just curious on your thoughts in the U.S.
It seems like a pretty good environment for you right now.
Is there anything percolating? Or do you generally feel pretty about the good environment from a reg standpoint? Yes.
Well I -- the fact is that -- I can tell you what my perspective is as the MasterCard guy talking to these banks.
I think they're all going through the early stages of trying to figure out their new P&amp;L and its construct given all the regulatory changes.
And you know those regulatory changes extend way beyond the card business to very fundamental things and the way the money center banks are constructed how their capital is used and what they can do with it.
So I think they're all going through that phase right now.
In our specific space the fact is the payments industry probably becomes a little more interesting in terms of its capital utilization for banks over a period of time.
So they have also realized as we all have there's an opportunity to grow there.
How they grow and how they construct that growth is what they're all working their way through.
So it's actually good discussion.
I feel that these are discussions that are -- that changes stuff for them.
But eventually coming out of this 1 year or 2 down the road I suspect we'll all be in a better place and that's what I'm hoping for.
So we are engaged in a constructive practical way on payment strategy with a number of banks in the U.S.
and elsewhere.
That's kind of where I am right now.
And your next question comes from Moshe Katri with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just maybe focusing on credit trends.
I think Martina you said that credit trends in the U.S.
remain stable.
I think from a gross dollar volume perspective they're up maybe 6% 7% for the quarter or similar to last quarter.
Rest of the world looked better globally it looked better.
What do you think we should kind of look for for the remainder of the year? You asked again a good question right.
So this is always tough to do.
I think you have to put it into the context of what we said about the economic environment.
We are very much focused on making sure that we understand where consumer confidence is what's happening on the unemployment rate what's happening on housing starts.
We're obviously feeling relatively good what we've seen in the first quarter.
But this has to persist for the rest of the year in order to have these kind of growth rates coming in.
The other issue that you're going to have to think about is look back to the last 3 quarters in particular the last 2 quarters in 2011.
Those had already some fairly healthy rates.
The credit growth in the United States in the third quarter and the fourth quarter of 2011 were 7 percentage -- 7% each.
So I would suggest to you that there might be a bit of a tougher comparison coming in.
And that's why we also said when we talked about our revenue growth don't just take the first quarter revenue growth and chart it out for the rest of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you think it's too early to say that this is an inflection point on the credit side? Or as you said we have to keep on looking at that environment? I think we have to look at it.
I think it's far too early to say that there's an inflection point on the credit side.
A lot depends also on the specific institution and its appetite right now.
You will see that for the last few quarters different banks and institutions have moved differently in terms of acquiring new credit cards.
Some that were very aggressive till a couple of quarters ago have slowed down.
Others have moved up.
I've seen that happen with a number of issuers.
So I think it's still moving around and it's connected a little bit to Don's question earlier about how the banks are looking at the payments business.
So it's not -- it's a bit tough to declare this as an inflection point yet.
I look at all the banks.
I look at their delinquencies improving.
I look at early-stage delinquencies coming down.
So I think about all of that change in their portfolio.
And I think about the fact that they do want to grow their revenue.
But it's based on the risk appetite but they need to get into a place depending on how the regulatory capital needs move around and then across their entire franchise.
That is happening as we speak.
So tough to say it's an inflection point but it is not in bad shape.
April is the month where you see all the consumer spending.
That's the time we know how April did but 1 month does not a quarter make and does not a trend make.
And I said March was a good month.
11 out of the 11 retail sectors were positive by the way so was February and that is not the case in January.
So if that's anything to go by.
Remember February also has a little benefit of an extra day which is 1 day out of 90 is more than a percentage point of growth for a company.
So you've just got to factor all that in and not conclude yet that we're at that inflection point.
That's how I see it.
And your next question comes from the line of Marc Lombardo with Meredith Whitney Advisor.
I just wanted to hear if there was a restatement on the split of debit and credit for Rest of World volumes and if there was just what the motivation was around this? I'm sorry can you repeat that question? You were very faint.
Yes so just wanted to hear if there was a restatement on the split of the volumes for credit and debit for the Rest of World? I'm not sure what you mean about restatement.
So the split from fourth quarter volumes of $405 million for worldwide for credit and charge.
When we look this quarter is now $384 million for GDV.
I don't understand what he means.
There hasn't been any restatement.
No there hasn't been any restatement.
There hasn't been any change whatsoever.
Are you looking at local rates? Because you got to have to look at the volume growing in a local way not on U.S.
dollar because U.S.
dollar is distorted obviously by the foreign exchange impact.
But there has been absolutely no change in terms of how we're reporting it.
And look maybe we should take that off-line Mark.
So if you can -- we can call you.
We'll get in touch with you.
Yes.
And your next question comes from the line of Craig Maurer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question for Ajay regarding what's going on in the U.S.
It seems to me that the U.S.
issuers have a complete disconnect versus with merchants and the way U.S.
issuers are strategizing around their rates and their product emphasis is in complete opposite of what retailers are thinking about which is pushing large retailers to again discuss their own payment system.
I was wondering how you talk to issuers about being more retailer-friendly or else this might become the type of issue that eventually comes back to kill their own business if they don't be careful.
Craig boy you chose to put a grenade on the table which I'm trying to figure out what the -- so here's the thing with that.
I think that this disconnect is more is made out of it than is true.
At the end of the day in most of these banks there is -- the fact is that merchants have got one perspective in growing their revenue and their P&amp;L.
And at the other end of the pipe is the bank that's trying to grow its revenue and P&amp;L.
And all that happens is the natural tension of the 2 opposing views between these parties.
I actually think a number of the banks and issuers have built reasonably good relationships with some of the big merchants over the last few years.
They're doing a lot of promotions together.
They're doing a lot of things together.
But the fact is that the economic value of what's involved in the payment system is a constant matter of interest to merchants as well as to the banks and so there's always some hustling going on there.
But even we ourselves have been in regular contact with a series of merchants over the last few months and I haven't seen anything new in that dimension compared to what it used to be 1 year or 2 ago but it's the natural tension that you're referring to between those 2 constituents of the payment system.
So that's kind of what's going on there.
I don't think there's anything more than that.
And your next question comes from the line of Glenn Fodor with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Ajay or Martina whoever wants to take it since the Durbin regulation went into effect you've done a very good job of winning PIN business.
But if you had to apportion the wins that you got can you characterize for us how much of -- what percent of them were you winning all the business -- PIN business outright versus just a portion of it being just the second mark on the card? So we aren't at liberty unfortunately to tell you that because every single issuer is being cautious and careful in this environment about how this is explained and talked about.
Remember they don't have to reissue the cards with the brands at the back and so everyone's on that statement right now.
So unfortunately I don't have the liberty to tell you that.
We've got a mix of both.
We've got a mix of deals where we are the only PIN brand at the back and there are deals where we are an additional PIN brand at the back along with other PIN brands.
I just am not at liberty to tell you what the break up is.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Fair enough.
Just switching to -- just some color on investments.
It's clear you're still investing.
This is what people want to see.
But investors also want to be able to characterize the go-forward trajectory the pay-off of those investments and how it's going to contribute to revenues and margins.
So can you give us perhaps a view on fiscal '13? I guess every year has a certain amount of revenue growth that's attributable to investments that were made say in the last 2 or 3 years so some of those are now going to be paying off in '13.
So is the contribution of growth investments in '13 going to be say bigger than it might have been in '11 and '12? Or is it kind of like an average year? How should we think about your investments today and when they're going to be paying off? So Glenn thanks for trying on this one.
Well first of all I mean you obviously know that for 2012 and 2013 on a combined way of compounded annual growth rate for net revenues we said 12% to 14% right? So in the 12% to 14% we obviously have to make our judgment of how much our newer investments would be contributing to the top line.
And I think you have heard me lay out before many of you heard -- that we have investments in the category that are more shorter-term investments return investments mid-term investments and longer-term investments.
So for instance when we invest into the commercial business or in the prepaid business we probably get a payoff over an 18- to 24-month period.
So of course you should be seeing in 2013 some contribution of these kind of investments.
Conversely when we go to the longer-term such as for instance the mobile investments that we have been making we've been very public out there that we might not be seeing a return for 4 or 5 years okay.
So we obviously wouldn't be putting a lot of that into our revenue lines for 2013.
But I think that's how you're going to have to think about it.
And when we put out in a public way our net revenue growth like we did for the next 2 years the 12% to 14% is basically recognizing the investment and how it might come to fruition from a return point of view over time.
And your next question comes from the line of Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just check in on a couple of quick things on the expense trends for the year and also the joint venture losses for the rest of this year just how to think about the seasonality of any of that? Or if there's anything unusual that you'll be rolling on rolling off? Well let me take the last one first because obviously when you look at the other income and expense line it will be tracking differently than what you have seen in the prior years because we are charting the investments that we are making in the joint ventures in Telefónica in there.
So you see almost $1 million negative in Q1 which has a number of components in there right.
It's not just the Telefónica JV.
You have what's happening from an interest income and expense point of view et cetera.
And basically you should be taking this forward and you should be thinking about negative numbers a bigger magnitude as the quarters go along because remember we only started the investment in the joint venture for Telefónica in Brazil very recently right.
So you're going to have -- you have to recognize that every quarter we'll be investing a bit more.
So this will be a negative trend.
From a G&amp;A point of view I am not sure if I can say more.
What we basically said is you will -- you should expect some growth in G&amp;A for sure.
I think we gave you a little bit of the split in the first quarter so that you can analyze Access Prepaid right which was 5 percentage points out of the 17 so the 12 was kind of the baseline.
You will continue to see some increase in G&amp;A.
Remember we hired about a little over 1 000 people back in 2011 of which around 400 people or so Access Prepaid.
So organic hire was 700 people.
That's kind of a 12% increase on our headcount which has to work its way through the personnel line.
So you're going to have to look at that.
And then for advertising and marketing we definitely said that that will be a lower growth rate than G&amp;A.
It will be just slightly higher than what you see in 2012 -- in 2011 sorry.
Research Division</strong> No impact from the Olympics or anything along those lines to think about...
What you might see of us and this why we are not giving you the quarterly cadence.
We're moving some monies around obviously quarter-over-quarter depending what kind of activities are happening in the world where we want to participate.
And your last question comes from the line of John Williams with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question Ajay.
I know you've mentioned a couple of times you've seen positive trends in the 11 spending categories.
I just was hoping you might be able to provide a little color on what you've seen perhaps among the high-end the luxury categories the shift credit versus debit or perhaps nondiscretionary versus discretionary? Yes.
John I haven't seen a lot of shift in credit versus debit in total because I think that's still early days and I'm not sure that there's any great trend coming out of that yet.
Actually I haven't even seen a big shift between PIN and signature other than the fact that our own volumes because of the PIN deals we have won over these last 2 months are moving around a little bit.
But your question is more about the market and the consumer as a whole rather than MasterCards per se right? So I haven't seen any great moves on that.
What I would tell you is that what's really been interesting I've been tracking SpendingPulse for the better part of 2.5 years now because I have a frequent call with some really interested parties who take this information from us and use it as part of their decision-making process in various governmental bodies.
And it's fascinating what's happened over the last 6 8 months -- 6 7 months ago hardware electronic stuff that had to do with home improvement were actually languishing in pretty negative territory.
In the last few months that has moved to the point where now those are actually the growth areas and that tells me that people are either using that to reinvest in renovating their homes or they're putting it into their homes that they are buying and it kind of links up with some of the things you're reading about some activity improving in home building and home buying still not showing up in the prices of homes but has it bottomed out.
So that's the first thing I'm seeing there.
The second thing I'm seeing is that in luxury goods jewelry fine dining slightly different trends.
Luxury goods and jewelry were doing well.
Jewelry is moving around a little bit a bit depends on festivals and stuff like that.
But mostly luxury goods were doing well.
Fine dining on the other hand has moved through cycles where they're in great shape and then it's taking a beating.
It's actually taking a beating recently again but casual dining and family dining has come back up on that growth rate.
So it's kind of moving around on us a little bit and I don't yet have a good trend on that aspect.
Research Division</strong> That's super helpful.
Just one other question on -- Martina I think you had mentioned Europe's process volume had come down by a couple of percentage points.
I just wanted to make sure you weren't specifically saying 2% or anything like that.
You were just giving kind of a general direction there right? You're assuming? Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
Yes yes I was just right.
Well look I can give you the numbers right? So Ajay was saying 19% growth in Europe for the first quarter.
When you actually do the analogous process volume calculation as we do it it's about 17%.
So the 19% is equal to 17% and what we are seeing in the first quarter of -- what we are seeing in April is about 15% which is -- so it's a very healthy growth rate let me tell you 15% that is a couple of percentage points below what we are seeing -- what we saw in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Have you directionally given what an equivalent same -- I guess cards sales metric would be in terms of x-ing out the impact of perhaps the new portfolios that you've signed? Well I think no we have not.
No we haven't but I can tell you little bit.
If you look at things like SpendingPulse you can come to conclusions pretty quickly about what's going on at the core versus new business.
And very similarly in Europe spending is actually holding up.
What happens as I've said about Europe very often in the global days Europe never went crazy with spending and now there is -- they have a far more stable pattern on saving and spending in Northern Europe.
Southern Europe can be a little complicated and can move a little differently from Northern Europe.
In our company it's interesting but a majority of our European business because of the way it was constructed from its beginning as well as the acquisition of Europe peers that happened along the ways some years back that our predecessor have done.
We've actually got a mix of volume that comes more from Northern Europe than from the Southern European countries which actually have seen us have a more stable pattern over the course of this last year or so.
Now the other good news is we are winning deals in some of those Southern European markets.
So even if Spain and Greece are slowing down that's where the Ireland Italy angle came from.
So we've got a mix of portfolio changing along with the nature of the business on how consumers are spending in Europe.
But essentially consumer spending as a whole in Europe is holding up and consumer confidence as a whole in the first quarter actually held up.
Now it moved differently.
Germany went up.
The U.K.
went up.
Spain and Greece went down.
But Europe as a whole held up.
That's actually public data on consumer confidence that you can get from the Nielsen guys which I just saw again the other day.
Thanks a lot for your questions.
And with no further questions in queue I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ajay Banga for closing remarks.
So let me leave you with just a few closing thoughts after those set of questions.
We are off to a good start for 2012.
We have made some really solid progress particularly as we've all been discussing in our U.S.
debit business.
But of course there's more to come there.
Just remember that any incremental PIN debit transaction come at a lower-than-average yield though with good profitability and things are moving around with the routing.
Remember that as Martina mentioned our first quarter net revenue growth rate will not be a representative run rate for the balance of the year.
That's because we will be faced with more difficult comparisons as the year progresses as well as several items that lap which by the way contribute to the difficult comparisons including the Access acquisition and several new business wins that we had over the course of the previous 2 years that came up with cards in this period last year.
I also want to remind you that there is the potential for us to increase our level of investment depending on how much room we have in our P&amp;L.
That room could come from things such a stronger than expected top line growth or the potential lower tax rate that Martina mentioned.
There is no shortage of growth opportunities in this business and we want to evaluate as many as we can.
We will act on the ones that provide the best potential for maximizing our long-term growth and let anything left over drop to the bottom line.
Net we're working hard to deliver another good year and meet our performance objective.
Thank you for your time today and thank you for your interest in MasterCard.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2012 MasterCard Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Laura and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today either by phone or webcast for a discussion about our second quarter 2012 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at mastercard.com.
Both the earnings release and the slide deck include reconciliations of any non-GAAP measures to their GAAP equivalent.
They have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A dial-in replay of this call will be available for 1 week through August 8.
And finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
And now with that I will turn the call over to Ajay.
Thanks Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
In the second quarter we saw net revenue grow 9% as reported or 13% on a constant currency basis.
This increase was driven by healthy volume and transaction growth which helped to fuel net income growth of 17% and EPS growth of 19% a very good quarter despite some of the global economic headlines that we've all seen.
And so while looking at those underlying economic trends I'm just going to start with the United States.
And our MasterCard SpendingPulse data shows that second quarter retail sales x auto for the economy as a whole grew by 5.5% but this growth is not as robust as the 7.4% we saw in the first quarter.
MasterCard's United States GDV followed that trend with 9% growth in the second quarter versus 14% in the first quarter.
And this pace of retail sales growth right now is expected to slow further through the second half of this year.
Most of this anticipated deceleration is explained by tougher comps in the economy versus a year ago.
However consumer confidence could also play a role and one example of that is that the impact of lower gas prices is not yet making its way back into other sectors of U.S.
consumer spending and in fact is adding to the savings rate of households in the United States as the FT says this morning.
The housing market seems to be showing some signs of recovery but unemployment rates have remained around 8% as we all know for the past 2 quarters.
And given all this in the current economic situation our perspective is we would need to see more stable growth signals before expecting U.S.
consumer confidence levels to show a sustained increase.
In Europe despite the current economic headlines our volume and transaction growth has remained fairly steady.
Growth in Northern and Eastern Europe is compensating for slowdowns in markets such as Spain and Greece.
The consumer confidence levels are recovering from their year-end 2011 lows while business sentiment on the other hand is still declining as a result of the current economic crisis.
And these are conflicting signals and they indicate that continued market volatility is likely to continue in Europe at least for the near future.
Elsewhere in the world Latin America and Asia continue to show solid performance for MasterCard despite a few signs of economic softening.
Brazil our largest market in Latin America began showing some signs of economic slowdown although consumer confidence has remained high.
Both our domestic and cross-border volume growth in Brazil remains strong with growth rates well above 20%.
Looking across the major markets in Asia we're seeing the same indications you're all seeing of economic slowdown in China and India and while that did not seem to have an impact in this quarter we're going to be watching this very carefully during the second half of this year.
Overall we maintain our cautious outlook for the rest of 2012.
We will continue to watch global macroeconomic indicators particularly as they pertain to Europe.
We would need to see improvement in these before we can expect sustained positive growth and spending trends.
And while this economic climate is volatile our business continues to show strong double-digit growth and we think that we are successfully navigating through the economic challenges by focusing on what we can influence and control and executing on our business strategy against those things that we have [ph] said we can influence and control.
So before I get into our business highlights let me give you a brief update on the litigation front.
And as you know we recently announced settlement terms for the U.S.
merchant class litigation as well as an agreement in principle with a group of individual merchants.
As a result of having [ph] negotiations finally landed we took an additional $20 million pretax charge in the second quarter to recognize our total financial obligations of $790 million under the settlement.
You will recall we took the other $770 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
This settlement represents a solution reached after years of litigation and months of negotiation.
That negotiation process directly involved 36 merchants and 5 trade associations and with the assistance of the court resulted in a settlement framework that is approved by all parties.
We recognize that some merchants may have different opinions and the nature of any settlement is going to involve compromise by all parties.
But having said that we fully anticipate that the settlement will be approved by the court.
Now moving forward we understand that it will take some time for passion around these issues to settle down.
Our ultimate goal is to ensure that the payments ecosystem merchants consumers and issuers is healthy and transparent so that electronic payments can continue to provide value for all these participants in the ecosystem.
So let me turn to our business highlights now and I'm going to begin with our initiative to support governments around the world.
Our approach in working with them highlights the positive aspects of electronic payments.
My attempt here remember is to reduce the level of cash that is used in the economy.
In particular efficiency and financial inclusion are these positive aspects that we are talking about.
So let me give you 3 examples: South Africa the U.S.
and Canada.
In South Africa MasterCard was selected to supply debit cards for the South African Social Security Agency in partnership with Net1 our technology partner and Grindrod one of our local bank partners.
The program is designed to help the government reduce fraud in these social benefits and also provides an introduction to bank accounts for a large portion of South Africa's currently unbanked population.
The card contain an EMV chip with a biometric application that requires the card owner to be authenticated before benefits can be loaded each month and that's the aspect of fighting fraud.
A total of 10 million people are expected to receive these benefit cards by mid-2013.
25% of those cards are already in the market as we speak.
Also in South Africa PayPass has been expanded for the transit system in the city of Durbin.
Through the use of a standard bank MasterCard mobile card including PayPass functionality for retail and a transit wallet for the local buses this debit card was introduced in the province of KwaZulu-Natal just last week.
The card is designed to make public transportation more accessible more efficient supports the government's financial inclusion drive for their unbanked population.
This mobile card is expected to be expanded to the local railway network the taxi industry and other transportation operators in the future as the way to integrate that transportation system across the entire province.
And as I've mentioned in the past few quarters here in the United States we won a number of public sector programs with the states of California Illinois New York Oklahoma South Carolina.
And I'm now pleased to add Alabama to that list.
MasterCard is now providing solutions for 12 of the 20 largest state programs as the majority share in the federal government prepaid space and saw 35% volume growth for the first half of this year.
We expect to add more names to this list.
About a week ago we announced a first in Canada a municipal prepaid card program for the city of Toronto.
The City Services Benefit Card program provides recipients with reloadable EMV chip and PIN prepaid cards enabling them to receive their benefits directly to a card.
The program offers SMS and e-mail alerts for balances as well as transaction inquiries ATM access online account access as well as multilingual customer service.
While on prepaid we actually just signed an important deal in the prepaid space a 5-year agreement with Credicard in Brazil to use and launch our IPS platform for prepaid processing.
The agreement also guarantees the exclusive issuance of MasterCard for their general purpose reloadable prepaid cards as the first IPS launch of a domestic-use only program and it will help Credicard make their debut into the gift and general-purpose reloadable prepaid market.
Now let me turn to commercial.
We've been experiencing strong growth.
Our commercial volume is growing at about 20% balanced across geographies and market segments ranging from large corporates and governments to small- and medium-sized businesses.
We have won new businesses around the globe with many more Fortune 500 companies.
And in fact currently almost 40% of the Fortune 500 uses MasterCard commercial products including Johnson &amp; Johnson AT&amp;T Procter &amp; Gamble.
On the debit front we are growing our overall debit business in the U.S.
a trend that you've seen for a little while now.
Our process debit transactions grew 58% over the second quarter of 2011 and sequentially better than the 40% growth rate we saw in the first quarter.
The value proposition for our debit customers remains strong.
We have seen a robust sales pipeline with significant renewals and wins including some of our biggest earlier customers such as BMO Harris Bank and HSBC.
Turning to [ph] U.S.
As you've now kind of seen over the last couple of years we have made great progress in prepaid in debit and commercial credit businesses.
We still have work to do in consumer credit and we're on it.
Moving to our activities supporting innovation particularly around mobile payments I'm going to mention 2 new launches.
The first we recently announced an agreement with Deutsche Telekom creating an important new European partnership.
This agreement opens the door to mobile payments for Deutsche Telekom's 95 million mobile customers across 11 European markets.
The first consumer rollout will take place in Poland later this year with mobile payment capabilities embedded in the phone.
At the same time a consumer trial will be introduced in Germany initially using mobile phone tags and cards.
A mobile wallet service will be added by the end of 2013.
In Argentina MasterCard and Telefonica's first JV recently launched a mobile wallet service.
It's marketed under the brand name Wonder.
This is the first commercial launch of our JV spans 12 countries in Latin America with almost 100 million movie-style [ph] subscribers.
These mobile payment services will be linked to a mobile wallet a prepaid account that will allow for money transfers mobile airtime reload bill payment and retail purchases.
Mobile payment solutions MPS another of our joint ventures this one with Smart telecom in the Philippines will be responsible for developing and implementing this mobile wallet technology and the services.
And finally last quarter I talked about the progress we've made with our DataCash acquisition.
And I'm very pleased to add a new highlight.
DataCash recently announced that Alipay completed integration with DataCash's international payment solution.
Alipay's online payment platform is already one of the most popular in Asia serving over 500 000 online retailers.
This integration with DataCash will help Alipay expand their international reach by enabling online retailers outside of China to process transactions from Chinese consumers using Alipay's e-wallet service.
So with that let me turn the call over to Martina.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of our Web slide deck where I will focus on the non-GAAP figures which exclude the additional $20 million pretax charge we took this quarter related to the U.S.
merchant litigation settlement.
For the second quarter we saw solid top line and bottom line results.
Net revenue grew 9% or 13% on a constant currency basis driven by strong volume and transaction growth as well as new deals.
Total operating expenses increased 6% or 9% on a constant currency basis.
Bottom line we delivered net income of $713 million up 17% or 23% on a constant currency basis and diluted earnings per share of $5.65 up 19% or 24% on a constant currency basis.
As I mentioned last quarter we expected to realize some onetime benefits to our 2012 effective tax rate.
Therefore besides enjoying the positive effects of our prior tax spending initiatives we also finalized some work which resulted in discrete benefits relating to additional export incentives and the conclusion of tax examinations in some jurisdictions.
Cash flow from operations was $641 million.
And we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalent and other liquid investments of about $5 billion.
While not shown on this page during the second quarter we repurchased about 1.6 million shares at a cost of approximately $671 million.
And through July 26 we repurchased an additional 132 250 shares at a cost of $57 million.
We have now completed the previous $2 billion share repurchase authorization and have $1.4 billion remaining of the new $1.5 billion authorization.
We will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
So let's now turn to Page 4 where you can see the operational metrics for the second quarter of 2012.
As you can see worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 15% on a local currency basis.
U.S.
GDV grew 9%.
While debit growth in the U.S.
remains healthy at 14% we saw the impact of the lapping of one of our debit brands.
Credit volumes in the U.S.
grew at about 3%.
Commercial credit growth remains strong in the high teens and as Ajay mentioned we still have work to do in U.S.
consumer credit.
Outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 19% on a local currency basis including mid- to high-teens growth in LAC and Europe and more than 20% growth in APMEA.
The growth rate of volume outside the U.S.
was driven by strength in both MasterCard credit and debit volumes which were up 16% and 24% respectively.
Cross-border volume grew 17% on a local currency basis including growth rates above 20% in Latin America and APMEA.
European cross-border volumes growth was in the mid-teens down just slightly from the previous quarters.
So let me turn to Slide 5.
Here you can see that process transactions were up 29% similar to the growth rate we saw in the first quarter.
Now you might think that most of the impact is from the new U.S.
debit awards but it's not.
On a net basis less than half of the 29% growth rate comes from the U.S.
primarily due to the new PIN debit transactions.
Almost 4 percentage points comes from new processing from the rest of the world leaving about 13% as the underlying growth rate.
Globally the number of cards grew 9% to 1.8 billion MasterCard- and Maestro-branded cards.
Let me turn to Page 6 to discuss our revenue growth in a bit more detail.
On an as reported basis domestic assessments grew 10% versus GDV growth of 9% on a U.S.
dollar basis.
Cross-border fee revenue grew 11% versus cross-border volume growth of 9% on a U.S.
dollar basis.
Taking out the impact of currency domestic assessments grew 15% and cross-border fees grew 14%.
Transaction processing fees grew 19% driven mainly by the 29% growth in process transactions.
Excluding pricing the gap between these 2 growth rates continues to be in the 12 to 13 percentage point range.
While there is a little bit of FX impact in this gap it is mainly driven by all the new PIN transactions that I just mentioned on the previous slide which come with a lower than average revenue yield.
Other revenue was 7% a deceleration from recent quarters due to the anniversary of excess prepaid in April of this year.
And finally rebates and incentives increased 24% driven by the impact of new and renewed deals as well as strong volume growth.
Moving to Page 7 for some detail on expenses.
So within total operating expenses you can see that general and administrative expenses increased 10% driven by higher personnel costs in support of our strategic growth initiatives.
These include on the ground resources of prepaid commercial and mobile as well as supporting the growth in various markets and expansion into additional markets.
While advertising and marketing expense was down by 7% or was lower by 7% than last year's second quarter on an as-reported basis it was only about 2% lower on an FX adjusted basis due to the timing of certain initiatives.
Depreciation and amortization increased 13% due primarily to increased capitalized software associated with our strategic projects.
So let me now turn to Slide 8 and let's discuss 2012 starting with an update of what we have seen for the third quarter through July 28.
Globally our cross-border volumes grew about 14% roughly 3 percentage points lower than what we had seen in the second quarter.
This was primarily driven by the slower growth in APMEA likely due to the timing of Ramadan and to the impact of the strengthening U.S.
dollar when U.S.-issued cards are used overseas particularly in Europe.
In the U.S.
our processed volume proxy for GDV grew about 7% slightly lower than the 9% that we saw in the second quarter.
This was largely due to lower credit and debit volume growth.
For debit the slower growth rate can be primarily attributed to the lapping of one of our debit wins which I mentioned just earlier.
Process volume growth outside the U.S.
was about 14% which is similar to the 15% growth we saw in the second quarter.
And in Europe which I know that's a region of particular interest to many of you process volume growth for July was in the low teens versus mid-teens in the second quarter.
Globally process transaction growth was about 25% down from the 29% we saw in both Q1 and Q2 of this year due to the continued evolving landscape in U.S.
PIN debit processing as well as the lapping of some of our Netherlands wins.
So based on what we see now let me give you some thoughts for full year of 2012.
Before considering the impact of currency we expect net revenue growth in the second half of the year to be somewhat lower than the 13% growth rate we saw in the second quarter due to really 3 factors: the first one the expected timing of new and renewed deals over the rest of 2012; to a lesser extent tougher comps as a result of the very strong revenue growth we saw in the second half of 2011; and certainly this global economic uncertainty which could temper both consumer and business spending for the balance of this year including the July trends that I just talked about.
Based on our first half performance we now believe we will deliver some operating margin expansion this year.
However the total amount of any improvement will depend on several factors including global economic conditions and investment opportunities that may surface during the second half of the year.
As a result our current expectations for full year 2012 include that G&amp;A growth will be similar to the growth rate we saw in 2011 on a constant currency basis and excluding the impact of acquisitions back in 2011.
So if you pull all of this out the run rate is about 11% and that's what we expect for 2012 and total A&amp;M spend will be relatively flat versus 2011 on a constant currency basis or lower on an as-reported basis.
The quarterly spend as a percentage of total year will be very similar to 2011 also on an as-reported basis.
So in addition we may elect to reallocate some funding away from A&amp;M initiatives into G&amp;A to support strategic initiatives in the second half.
And we may also use some of this quarter's favorable tax benefit to opportunistically invest in the next 2 quarters.
The comments I just made about the 2012 outlook are based on constant currency perspective.
So remember you need to adjust for the impact of currency movements when modeling our as-reported numbers.
So let's just assume that the euro continues to trade around we picked 1.22% and the Brazilian real continues to trade around the 2% level for the rest of the year we would expect about a 4 to 5 percentage point headwind to as-reported net revenue net income and EPS growth for both the second half and the full year of 2012.
And when you look specifically at each of the remaining quarters this headwind is 5 to 6 percentage points for Q3 and 3 to 4 percentage points for Q4.
We continue to expect a 2012 full year tax rate of around 31% primarily due to the onetime benefits you saw in our second quarter effective tax rate as well as the ongoing contribution from some of our tax initiatives.
Finally we remain focused on our performance objectives for the 2012 to 2013 period of a net revenue CAGR of 12% to 14% a minimum annual operating margin of 50% and an earnings per share CAGR of at least 20%.
Let me just remind you these objectives are all on a constant currency basis and excludes any new acquisitions.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thanks Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
And in order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourselves to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
Laura? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I had a question for Ajay.
You mentioned that you'd kind of focus on items that you can control as long as the economic uncertainty continues and I was just wondering if you could just elaborate on those levers a little bit more maybe specifically around the operating margin? I think Martina gave some color as to what you guys are anticipating but what happens if the top line doesn't pan out as you expect it to? Sanjay let's first discuss the top line for a second.
I have tried to lay out that I believe what drives our top line are those 3 concentric circles the outermost one being the growth of personal consumption expenditure.
And a lot of my commentary in the beginning was around how I'm not sure where that will go maybe not at the 5% or 6% that we have been consistently getting over the last few years.
Although I don't know for a fact I'm just assuming that things look a little dodgier on that front than they did a little while ago.
The other 2 concentric cycle circles one is what percentage of that PCE goes into electronic transactions versus cash.
And currently around 80-something-percent goes into cash and I'm still very focused on growing the electronic share in that hence all the effort on government programs prepaid programs Social Security social benefits all that that you see as well as small ticket payments mobile payments.
All that comes from trying to change the ratio in that space.
And the last concentric circle is our share in the 13%.
I think if you do the math on the way our transactions are growing not just because of U.S.
debit you will find that we're making some progress there as well although we've always got more work to do in that space.
So I kind of think of those 3 levers.
I think of the outermost concentric circle in revenue being less than easy to predict today and I'm focused on the next 2.
That's the top line.
Now let's talk the other way expenses.
I think what you'll find us doing is to ensure that we meet our guidance of at least 50% of that operating margin we've talked about.
But fortunately over the last 6 months we've been doing better than that.
If we find that there are opportunities for us to put money back into strategic initiatives that feed our revenue growth in 1 of those 2 opportunities either to grow electronification or to grow our share within the electronification we will keep doing that because that's what we're trying to do to keep our franchise growing through all these economic volatility that you see today.
Now within that if I had a choice the easiest lever of control is A&amp;M.
I've talked about that in the past.
G&amp;A tends to be something I want to invest in consistently I can't start and stop the strategic initiative without losing a lot of the momentum but A&amp;M I can kind of work with.
And so that's what Martina was trying to indicate to you in her commentary.
But we are very focused on that 2-year goal of 12 of 14 percentage points of revenue growth CAGR on a constant currency basis.
We're very focused on the minimum 50% operating margin and that 20% EPS growth also on a constant currency basis.
That's what our focus is.
And I'm going to play with every element in the P&amp;L in the meantime to ensure we deliver on that focus and navigate our way through this system and keep growing our share.
And next question comes from the line of Moshe Katri from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So if I'm looking at gross store volumes especially in the rest of the world in credit it was up 8.3%.
Last quarter it was up 17.6%.
Is it possible just to reconcile the differences and maybe just give us a feel on what sort of FX headwinds you had there? The FX headwinds for volumes were really not different than what we had been calling out right? I mean we said when you look at domestic -- when you look at GDV the GDV on a constant currency basis was about 15%.
On a U.S.
dollar basis it's about 9%.
So you have a 6 percentage point headwind on GDV.
And when you look at credit versus debit there is really not much difference on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just -- so the 17.6% should be -- if you kind of look at this at apples-to-apples basis it should be roughly -- this quarter should be what? Like in the -- somewhere in the 12% 13% range if I adjusted for FX headwinds? I think directionally you are correct.
And your next question comes from the line of Bryan Keane with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the constant currency 13% growth rate how much of that growth was from new business wins? And as we go forward into the second half to a year how do we think about the incremental growth rate we'll get from new business wins? Look we really don't split new business wins out.
You have to have an appreciation.
Of course you can't just get to the 13% without having new business wins but you're going to have to go back to how we build our model over the longer term.
So basically we are -- and I'm going back right to the concentric circles that Ajay has been just laying out.
We're starting with personal consumption expenditure growth and that's typically over longer period 5% to 6% per year.
This year it's probably a little bit low so that's lower.
So that is impacting us.
Then you have the secular trends.
The secular trends on a per year basis can be anywhere between 4 to 6 percentage points.
We haven't finished the year so I can't really give you yet where we are ending up in that 4 to 6 percentage points.
Now when you add those 2 factors together you get into the 9% to 11% growth rate.
So in order to get to 13% of course you're going to have to have a couple of percentage points attributed by the new things that we are doing and that could be new business wins it could be expanding into other markets it could be getting these kinds of government programs that Ajay has been laying out.
There are a number of things in that number.
And Brian it's Ajay.
You should remember that that 5 to 6 percentage points of PC in growth which Martina was calculating into the 9% to 11% that you get to by adding that to the secular growth we don't know as of today what that 5% or 6% will be.
So we're trying to give you normalized thinking and frankly that's how we approach our business in those concentric circles.
But we don't know what that 5% to 6% will be.
If you ask me today it feels lower but 2 months later we might have a different opinion depending on how the world economies are performing.
Right now given all we're seeing in consumer spending it feels lower than the 5% to 6%.
I just don't know yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly any update on the timing you guys are hearing from the EC on potential recommendations from the Green Paper? And any impact that you could see maybe coming out of that if they talk about routing freedom or access to cash balances with the ability to clear and settle for third-party providers? Just trying to think about the potential impact coming out of that -- those recommendations.
We don't have any update on any timing from them.
We're kind of I told you actively engaged in discussions with them.
We have given them a point of view.
We are in constant dialogue with them.
We don't have any update with them yet.
And your next question comes from the line of Darrin Peller with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch base on again on rebates and incentives.
I know that you shy away from really guiding towards it but Martina thanks for the color on the second half at least overall.
Overall though in the quarter they were at higher level than I think than we expected and it sounds like you're expecting somewhat of a similar run rate going forward based on the discussion around new signings and overall revenue growth.
While I understand there's new deals and renewals is there any shift in strategy around incentives maybe similar to what we've seen at one of your competitors or even from merchants or banks and where it's going? Perhaps and maybe how it was allocated in the past? No Darrin absolutely not there's no change in this.
And you might recall that a year or a couple of years ago I laid out actually a split of our rebates and incentives between what is really driven from a volume perspective versus what is really driven from a new deal or a new deal signing.
And we typically say when you look at our total rebates and incentives over a whole year -- so you have to take a total year don't just take a quarter -- about 70% of our rebates and incentives is driven really by volume and by the increased business that we are getting.
30% is typically driven by new deals or renew deals.
And even in this quarter and I don't expect for any part of this year it will be -- there will be any difference whatsoever.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So similar -- just expect similar kind of trends in the second half that we saw this quarter more or less? As you very eloquently said it's all embedded in the thoughts that I gave for 2012.
And just to make sure you get the picture around -- inside your question was aspects of other people doing things with the way they're using rebates and incentives across merchants versus issuers.
We haven't changed our strategy which is get ourselves onto the back of those debit cards get ourselves enabled for them to be used watch how that goes do not try and apply rebates and incentives in a broad way.
I'm not in the position of protecting a large pre-regulatory change market share.
I'm in the business of growing market share in this opportunity and use them surgically and sensibly.
And nothing's changed in that picture.
We are exactly where we were in that strategic thinking.
Nothing's changed.
And your next question comes from the line of Tien-Tsin Huang with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask Ajay just give us maybe some high level thoughts on some of the concessions that were given on the merchant litigation specifically surcharging in some of the smaller items? So I kind of when I approach this -- I think we had this conversation with the investor and analyst community sometime back as well and I was talking about how I would be reluctant to agree to long-term changes in the methodology by which interchange is computed and used.
We did agree as you know one portion of this is a short-term change.
But the surcharge angle frankly for a long time in MasterCard surcharging has been going on in some parts of the world partly promoted by legal changes in those countries.
Discounting for cash has been going on for a long time and we have never enforced anything differently from that.
I still share the belief that all these kinds of things create friction for a consumer for a merchant for everybody in the electronification of payments.
And so when I talked about that second concentric circle of secular change these things create friction.
Frictions aren't good for increasing the speed of that secular change.
Yet the merchants were very clear the ones who represented [ph] us and negotiated with us that without that there was no conversation.
So we came to the point where it's either to agree to part of that -- from my perspective.
This is only mine by the way this is not the other parties in the negotiation.
I'm not trying to speak on behalf of the banks.
I'm not trying to speak on behalf of Visa.
This is me MasterCard.
We believe the best thing to do was looking at our experience of surcharging in other markets where frankly it didn't really lead to a great deal of actual surcharges being placed other than in a couple of kinds of areas where cash isn't quite able to compete.
So for example online airline bookings and the like.
And even there in Australia the Reserve Bank of Australia stepped in recently and created caps for the level of that surcharging realizing that this was not quite what they wanted to have happened I'm assuming which is why they stepped in.
So when I think about that here in this agreement we have also managed to get in some of those protections the cap and what they could charge the declaration to the consumer with clarity both on the receipt and in the store the level playing field concept that we think we've got in there.
All these were attempted as a way to sort of try and box the issue while moving forward.
So the bigger picture of tackling the 80-something percentage of transactions that are still in cash can keep on being pursued instead of all our thoughts being tied up in the passion behind this issue.
That's kind of how I approached it Tien-Tsin.
And so it is friction.
I don't like the friction but I'm trying to minimize it with as much lubricant as I can put in the system.
And your next question comes from the line of Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Hey Martina just to go back to the expenses.
There's a lot of puts and takes on the constant currency reported especially on the advertising and marketing side.
Can you just go back through those real quickly on the expectations for the second half as it relates to the advertising and marketing that is both including and excluding the currency? Yes I mean what I really said that you should be expecting that A&amp;M spend will be relatively flat versus 2011 on a constant currency basis.
And that would tell you because of the FX impacts that it would be lower on an as-reported basis.
And then also I tried to give you a little bit more help on your model from a quarterly perspective.
And really from a quarterly modeling point of view you should be really thinking about the same kind of rate of usage as in 2011.
Now I also said and Ajay had reemphasized we are looking at our strategic investments and that might entail moving things around from A&amp;M to G&amp;A.
That is not included in these comments.
We will make those decisions as we go along in the next couple of quarters.
But this is what I see this is the best that I'm seeing at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then maybe Ajay on the credit side just in terms of the U.S.
credit and having some work to do what does that comment entail? Like I mean as you think about having some work to do in U.S.
credit what exactly do you guys think needs to be done there? Two 3 years back Julio -- if you looked at our position in the United States market 2 3 years ago in all the different product categories we were not in the best position in terms of either debit signature of payments.
We were not doing as well as we wanted to in commercial cards.
We were doing reasonably well in prepaid although I think we could have accelerated that momentum.
And we were not doing as well as we wanted to in consumer credit because we're reliant on a portfolio of banks that in that mix has been going through some degree of difficulties over the financial crisis.
What I've tried to do over these years is to take each of those 4 product categories and change our position in the market.
In prepaid with all that we've done with these governments as well as our relationships with a number of the prepaid program managers and other issuers I think we have made real progress.
From the Social Security Administration of the U.S.
to these state-level programs all those we kind of feel good about.
In debit we've actually done reasonably well over the last one year including the wins before the regulatory change with SunTrust and Sovereign and all those pieces.
In commercial we actually feel pretty good.
We are making real progress on large corporates and small businesses.
It's in consumer credit that I still don't think I can tell you that I've made the breakthroughs.
I have wins.
I have wins with regional banks.
I have wins with independent banks and credit unions.
I have reconfirmations of my position in market share in some of the biggest banks.
I'm winning little days along the side.
I'm not losing anything contrary to what anybody else might say.
I'm not losing anything.
I'm gaining a little bit here or there but it doesn't excite me.
It doesn't satisfy me.
There's work to be done in consumer credit.
That's the finality I was trying to get across.
And next question comes from the line of Rod Bourgeois with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So over the last year your growth in Europe has been helped by domestic processing wins.
And our assumption has been that you may not have additional SEPA-related wins on the near-term horizon even though SEPA seemingly could still create long-term opportunities if the regulatory environment doesn't change too much in Europe.
So with that as the context can you give us your thoughts on the short term and the longer-term opportunities for wins in Europe related to SEPA given that you've had a pretty good track record there over the last year or 2? It's a good question.
Our SEPA volumes in this last quarter -- the previous quarter they were up 200-something-percent.
This last quarter it's closer to less than half of that.
So that's because of the lapping of some of those wins.
Do I -- it's very tough for me to tell you how I think about this shorter-term because the nature of this wins in SEPA tend to have a peculiar lumpiness in them.
We're talking so many of these parties at the same time.
Two kinds of results come out of it.
One is a constant dribble of incremental transactions from many countries Germany France Belgium.
Those are happening even today.
They kind of continuously getting some benefits from them.
Then I've got the lapping effect of the big wins in the Netherlands that we had last year.
In the middle of all that if 1 or 2 of those big discussions turn into a deal it will happen in 60 90 days not in 350 days I won't get 350-days notice on it.
It may not happen by the way in the next quarter don't get me wrong.
It's just that I don't know when to predict how the damn thing will convert from a conversation to a real deal.
So I don't know how to give you a better feeling of that number for the shorter term.
It's the nature of our business with longer selling cycles.
And when the deal happens it happens.
But I could say that if you look at it consistently over a period of time absolutely we think our product and our capability with Maestro with Debit MasterCard our technology and the fact that we have one global platform that you can take your Maestro card and use it anywhere in the world let alone not being able to use it outside of Germany in Europe.
Forget about going to Latin America and using it.
When you can do all that then I believe that that is a strong starting point to keep winning business on this line in SEPA.
And that's the dialogue we're going ahead with.
And Martina you want to add something? Rod just from a nearer-term perspective to expand a little bit from SEPA right? When you look for instance at the Nordics we've been working on the Nordics in Europe for a considerable amount of time and had just announced a number of deals right? Last year the Swedbank deal this year we think that we have a follow-on on that with another bank.
And so we are starting to really work out country by country to be getting these kind of wins and putting our cards into the market.
So you can't just look at each individual SEPA country.
You're going to have to think about the overall strategy.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Well just a quick follow-up on that.
I mean when you look at the seemingly -- some uncertainty created by the Green Paper and then the underlying motivation of the EC is that -- are those developments making it more difficult to proceed with SEPA-related wins or is there really no change? No no actually.
Remember in many ways what we are doing with all these that actually fit directly into what the EC wanted to have done when SEPA was created which was to break down the monopolies of the domestic debit schemes and allow for cross-border intra-EU as well as global players to come into play in that space so that you could increase competition increase innovation and increase efficiency.
For a long while those conversations wandered off into a local domestic European scheme like money.
That's still is getting talk about somewhere in the fringes.
But for a long while that's the only question you guys ask me.
And I kept telling you I don't know for sure whether that will also happen.
All I know is it's a moving landscape.
We have a terrific product with great efficiency priced right.
That's how we won the Netherlands.
That's how we are winning business in different parts of Europe including the Nordics data that Martina was talking about.
I'm pretty confident that that still holds true.
So that's about it Rod.
And your next question comes from the line of Glenn Fodor with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Ajay with regards to the settlement as you stated there's clearly a lot of emotion out there among some of the parties so could you tell us is there a mechanism for the defendants either the networks or the issuers approaching the large merchants who are putting out these headlines these days and helping ameliorate their concerns? And if so have those efforts started? Well I'm not going to sort of go into too much detail there.
But I will tell you this dialogue with all these parties is a consistent part of what we're doing.
The fact is not everything about this settlement will suit every individual involved.
And so there are those compromises and some parties on both sides are more willing to make some of those compromises others that aren't.
The -- that's kind of a first basic principle.
As far as the actual mechanisms are concerned I've got Noah here.
So Noah do you want to add something to what Glenn was asking? Sure.
Glenn there's a process in court for merchants to actually express their desire to opt out of the settlement which actually hasn't occurred yet.
That will follow the preliminary approval by the court which should take place in the fall.
At the end of the day we're confident that the settlement will be -- will receive approval from the court both from a preliminary approval perspective and from a final approval perspective.
It's just like in the Walmart case there tends to be in all class action cases merchants that choose to opt out.
But we're confident that at the end of the day the settlement will be accepted by the court.
And notwithstanding the fact that different merchants have different views we will reach a resolution that should really turn the corner on the years of litigation and allow us to get back to doing business with the important merchant community.
And next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I've got a question on buybacks.
Some companies look at buybacks as simply a vehicle for returning capital.
Others tend to look at it more as opportunistically if there are share price declines.
Can you kind of remind us a little bit on your philosophy and whether you would view potential pressure that your shares might come under to the extent that from a macro perspective there are some weakness and whether you would look at that as an opportunity to get more aggressive on buybacks? Okay.
So let me just talk a little bit about our philosophy and let me start a little bit in terms of how we think about capital allocation anyhow right? Because first of all we're looking at allocating capital to the business right? That is our first-most focus.
Secondly we are looking to deploy capital from an what we call inorganic way i.e.
making acquisitions investing in other businesses in order to further the goal that Ajay has laid out to really drive our revenue growth right? And then last but not least if you have excess cash available we're certainly very open to be returning that to shareholders.
And at this point in time our preferred method of returning it to shareholders is really through share repurchase programs.
And as you've seen we have been doing that very consistently in the market.
In fact I think we've been spending close to $1 billion just in 2012 in terms of repurchasing our shares.
And the one thing that I just want to always be sure is that we do that we pick shares up in an opportunistic manner over a certain time period.
So you can read out from that that obviously an opportunistic pick up of shares means that we're watching very closely where the share price is going.
And then we move in and do things as we can.
Now we can't do that always okay? And I just want to caution that a little bit.
Given that we are a publicly traded company there are certain trading windows that are open for us where we can do that in a very active manner.
However when we get into what we call a blackout period which is moving closer to a quarter end and an earnings release we have to file things like the 10b5-1 plan.
That means we have to predetermine what kind of trading activity we want to have on our stock in the market.
And of course we do formula-based kind of activity so we try to mimic in these plans what we otherwise would be doing when we can go actively into the market everyday.
I hope that gives you a little bit of background on how we think about it.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful Martina.
And if I may ask Ajay a follow-up.
Ajay does your pursuit of -- you gave a little bit of an update on Telefonica.
Can you talk a little bit about whether your pursuit of money transfer solutions with other partners around the world creates any kind of tension with Western Union given the work that you're doing with them? Basically as you look forward also do you expect these tensions to intensify? Yes.
I look -- I actually am doing all this with great partnership with Hikmet at Western Union.
In fact I think there are ways that Western Union and MasterCard together could offer an even stronger opportunity to a number of these money transfer opportunities through the phone systems.
I've always believed that the phone companies the operators as well as the hardware folks can be an integral part of how this new method evolves rather than an either/or.
So I don't see the same kind of tensions.
I actually see all of us bringing different capabilities and skills and strengths to the table.
And if you can stitch those together well it actually works pretty well.
And that's the kind of thing we've been doing for the past couple of years whether it be with Google whether it be with Telefonica whether it be with a E.Tel and Zane [ph] or with Deutsche Telekom.
We've kind of got issuers telecom companies and us to work together in some ways to discover this whole mobile payment space.
I think there's another set of partners which is the future set of partners around vouchers rewards loyalty e-receipts.
All those will also add value to this whole mobile payment space and money transfer space.
So I think what we do well is we build ecosystems.
We make partners work together that's our job.
If I start doing an either/or I would've forgotten our heritage of the company.
And next question comes from the line of Craig Maurer with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
The first is in terms of U.S.
credit it would seem that the banks that are focused on issuing cards on your largest competitor are consistently taking share from banks that are issuing on MasterCard.
At this point is this a somewhat unavoidable circumstance in the U.S.
as I'm not sure there are any major credit portfolios that are up for renewal at any point soon? And secondly a question on Europe.
Yesterday's antitrust announcement against Visa Europe had a unique twist in it in that it was also discussing domestic interchange in certain countries.
As I understand it Visa and MasterCard both have domestic interchange rates in certain countries in Europe.
And if they do happen to win this case against Visa Europe do you see this as setting precedent to eventually approach MasterCard on domestic interchange? So Craig the first part the part about credit in the U.S.
you're absolutely correct that the mix of the portfolios of various competitors as well as the Amex GNS business all those mixes put together are part of what you're seeing in that credit marketplace.
And it may change as different banks have different appetites for growing their business in cards.
But it is where it is today.
And one of the things that we are working with is that circumstance.
I don't quite understand the commentary about no possible portfolios being available.
So I think that -- I'm just kind of going to leave that out there with you.
We keep getting maybe not huge portfolios which I would like to but we keep getting new business from a number of banks that traditionally would have been only issuing somebody else's cards.
And I think that's true by the way.
Also those banks who've traditionally been issuing our cards it's in the interest of an issuing bank to find a way to manage to work with more than one network.
It suits them it gives them a better position it gives them a better capability of constructing their business models.
And when I was a banker that's how I thought about it.
So I am somewhat less clear on that part of your question.
That's what we're working our way through.
And so will it change in a day or 2? No.
It's a -- that's the nature of our business.
It's a business that has a longer selling cycle.
And within the marketplace in the U.S.
there are some portfolios that are available some that are not newer ones that normally available at most banks.
And so it's a mix of all those things that we are working our way through.
We've worked our way through the same situation with commercial in a way with prepaid and of course in the case of debit in some cases we were able to get a big deal.
In others this regulatory environment change provided an opportunity to do something.
But we're kind of working our way through that.
That's how I view that consumer credit question.
And Noah would you like to take on the EU and Visa question a little bit? Sure I'd be glad to.
So there is a difference as I understand Visa and their interchange fee structure setting in Europe compared to ours.
So Visa's cross-border interchange fees have application to domestic jurisdictions.
So as I understand the scope of the European Commission's concerns with Visa that's why it relates to both the cross-border rates as well as their domestic rates in some countries.
We don't have that approach so we set individual domestic rates as well as the cross-border rate.
The case that the Commission brought against MasterCard only relates to the cross-border rates.
We as you know are appealing from the -- the decision from the general court.
In the meantime to specifically answer your question yes there is the potential for some pressure from domestic competition authorities.
We will continue to dialogue with them.
But we think we have as I said a strong position on our appeal.
And your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping Ajay to kind of return to that U.S.
credit because given that you'd said mid-teens from the commercial side it just seems like the consumer side might even be flat to down at this point.
I appreciate the comments that you made about banks kind of switching back and forth but maybe talk a little bit about if you've got specific plans to kind of bring some of that volume back in the second half of the year.
You've got to be kidding if I'm going to give you specific [ph] plans now.
That's a good try Moshe.
I'm sorry I can't answer that question you know that.
Just nothing that I can tell you that I will certainly produce and having all of that tomorrow morning.
But we have worked very hard in the other areas and we are working very hard on this one.
And we've got a constant drum rate of pipeline out there and we're at it.
And don't take all this out of context.
I was trying to provide that color to enable you to understand how I viewed our position in the U.S.
market over the last few years.
I viewed our position 2 3 years ago a bit like Chris McWilton laid out at one of our Investor Days where we had -- frankly we have lost share in debit signature and payment.
Our credit position was what it was because we were strong with certain banks that are mostly credit card issuers.
We were not strong with some banks that are more debit and credit as in a more holistic money-centered approach.
We -- those banks got sold out by -- bought by other banks that were traditional Visa banks.
That didn't help our position.
Our commercial position was not where I'd want it to be despite our very good strengths on the commercial product from smart data as a tool to the fact that our acceptance is way beyond that of the largest players in commercial.
And all we have to do is travel outside of the United States and feel that pain.
And so in many ways I felt we weren't taking full advantage of our capabilities in those spaces.
And we were making progress in all of them.
In that context in my own personal scorecard I don't think consumer credit has made as much progress as commercial prepaid and debit.
That's the context in which I was speaking.
And your next question comes from the line of Jason Kupferberg with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification and a question.
The clarification was just what was the pricing impact on revenues in the quarter? And then my question is within Europe I know you said low teens process volume growth in July still robust slipping a little bit versus Q2.
Can you give us any qualitative sense underneath that number between debit and credit in Europe? Just if there has been a divergence in the relative growth rates between those 2.
I know you won't give us the exact numbers but just any qualitative trends you can speak to on credit versus debit in Europe as the macro unfolds there.
Okay Jason I can do that.
First of all from a pricing contribution that was about 2 percentage points okay? Both on the 9% as well as on the 13% growth rates for revenues.
And there's really no additional pricing in there.
It all came out from what we had put in place last year as well as in January of 2012.
From a European a little bit more clarification point of view we're really seeing no slowdown from a debit point of view.
All of the numbers that we're seeing are more on the credit side.
And when I look at the underlying countries there are really 2 countries that are still growing.
They're still growing very nicely but the growth is a little bit less than what we had in the prior couple of quarters.
And one is the U.K.
and the other one is France.
That concludes the Q&amp;A section of the call.
I would like to turn the call over to management for closing remarks.
So let me just leave you with a few of those thoughts.
We have  -- as I've just been saying in the few questions and answers I think we've made really solid progress across the globe in the first half of 2012.
We feel very good about U.S.
PIN debit in particular even though we don't yet know how those volumes will all finally shake out for all the reasons we have discussed in the past.
Of course those incremental PIN debit transactions came at a lower than average yields as Martina talked about but with good profitability.
As Martina also mentioned we think that the second half of the year has got more difficult comparisons as the year progresses as we lap our strong second half of last year.
There is the potential for us to increase our level of investment depending on how much room we have in our P&amp;L versus the kind of commitments we have out there for our operating targets.
That room could come from things such as stronger-than-expected top line growth or the potential lower tax rate that Martina has been talking about.
There is no shortage of growth opportunities in this business.
The key is to evaluate as many as we can and then act on the ones that provide the best potential for maximizing our long-term growth and let everything leftover drop straight to the bottom line.
That's what we are focused on.
Overall we're working as hard as we can to deliver another good year and meet those performance objectives despite all these continuing uncertain economic conditions.
So with that thank you for your time today and thank you for your faith in our company.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Welcome to the MasterCard's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Barbara you may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone and thank all you for joining us today either by phone or webcast for a discussion about our third quarter 2012 financial results.
Hopefully by postponing the call by an hour we made it a little bit easier for folks on the East Coast to be able to access the call.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for our question-and-answer session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website mastercard.com.
The earnings release includes reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to their GAAP equivalent.
The release and the slide deck were also attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for 1 week through November 7.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I'll now turn the call over to our President and CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
Just some high-level comments.
First in the third quarter we saw net revenue growth 5% as reported or 10% after adjusting for currency.
Volume and transaction growth are behind that increase as well as the increase of our net income growth of 8% and our EPS growth of 10%.
It is a solid quarter despite the tough comparison to our exceptional performance in the third quarter of last year when we delivered 24% net revenue growth at constant currency.
And actual performance in fact was right in line with the expectations we spoke about at last month's investor meeting which took into consideration both this third quarter of last year performance but also the world's somewhat mixed economic picture.
In the U.S.
we saw an improvement in consumer confidence which resulted in an increase in consumer spending growth although that growth is slower than 2011 or the numbers we saw in the first half of 2012.
And according to our own SpendingPulse data 8 of the 11 sectors we track showed positive results in September and retail sales x auto and gas grew 4.1% in September although that's lower than the growth in July and August.
And as we've been saying for the last few quarters now housing-related categories of retail spending continued to perform well which I think points to the underlying improvement in the housing markets that we are all beginning to see.
Our U.S.
consumers however appear to be holding to their budgets with pretty tight and close controls on what they're spending on.
We are seeing a rotation in their spending from sector-to-sector based mostly on their seasonal needs.
So for example during the recent back-to-school season we saw a temporary increase in growth for the apparel sector better than August.
But other sectors such as electronics did not fare that well that month.
In September consumer shifted their spend towards electronics and housing-related sector at the expense of apparel.
So they're kind of moving back and forth.
We will be watching consumer spending closely for the remainder of this year and going into 2013.
And as we all know a lot will depend on how our government responds to fiscal policy issues once the current elections are over.
In Europe our processed volume and transaction growth continues albeit with some deceleration in the third quarter.
Softness in countries such as Spain and Greece continued to be more than offset by volume growth in the Northern and Eastern European markets.
However a couple of those markets like the U.K.
and Russia did slow down in growth.
Business sentiment continued to weaken in the third quarter so the trend in Europe in consumer confidence has been somewhat more inconsistent.
It is up in the second quarter began to turn down in the third quarter and just recently has seen a very slight uptick.
Therefore as it has been for some quarters Europe remains a complicated economic scenario.
We're watching those signals we'll be [ph] continuing to grow our business.
And we're doing pretty well under the current circumstances.
Asia-Pacific and Latin America sustained double-digit processed volume growth in the third quarter despite several major economies in these regions showing the early signs of deceleration.
There is no doubt that economic uncertainty in the U.S.
and Europe is impacting the rest of the world.
You all read the news about China and India.
We see some of that in our data too.
Brazil however seems to be showing signs of improvement in both sentiment and spending probably helped by tax cuts and other government stimulus programs.
So overall we're just continuing to maintain a cautious outlook for the rest of this year and into 2013.
We will continue to watch global macroeconomic indicators in particular the outcome of the U.S.
election the fiscal cliff debate that will no doubt follow as well as the ongoing problems affecting the European economy.
So while this economic climate remains complicated we're navigating through these challenges by focusing on what we can influence and what we can control which is really to remain focused on our business strategy.
So let's discuss some of the business highlights starting with several deals from around the globe.
Building on the momentum in credit [ph] with Swedbank we recently signed an exclusive partnership with Nordea Bank for their consumer credit and co-brand products in the Nordics and extended this new partnership through debit and credit in the Baltics.
This deal doubles MasterCard share of cards of Nordea and along with other recent wins we think we can double our market share in the Nordic and Baltic regions over the next 3 years just further strengthening our presence in these markets that are actually doing relatively well.
In France we recently renewed our agreement with Crédit Agricole MasterCard's largest customer in that country.
And with that behind us we have no major contracts up globally for renewal until 2014.
In the Czech Republic we signed a strategic cooperation agreement with CSOB bank which is the second-largest card issuer in that market.
And we think that that deal will generate an incremental 20% share of cards for us and most importantly will enable the largest ever PayPass issuance in the Czech market to date.
Moving to the Middle East.
We have just won a significant opportunity with the Commercial Bank of Qatar's private banking and mass affluent portfolios.
We gained significant share in the credit book and now we have exclusivity for debit.
With this deal in place Qatar is showing the most significant acceleration in share growth of any of our markets in the Middle East Africa.
In China MasterCard was selected as the exclusive foreign payments brand for Citibank's PremierMiles program.
This is Citibank's flagship product.
They're targeting it at affluent frequent fliers.
Each cardholder will be given a U.S.
dollar-denominated MasterCard card that can be used when traveling outside of China.
In Hong Kong along with the Bank of China we launched a MasterCard exclusive youth card program called the i-card.
This new program focuses on the most important spend categories for youth in Hong Kong which are basically e-commerce entertainment and travel probably no different from other countries in the world.
Previously this youth card program was divided between 2 global networks.
Now all these cards will be converted to MasterCard by 2014.
On governments.
We continue to work with them to highlight the positive aspects of electronic payments.
As of this quarter let me give you 2 more examples 1 from the U.S.
1 from Mexico.
In the U.S.
as I've mentioned over the past few quarters we've won a number of public-sector programs and we can now add the states of New Jersey and New Mexico to that list.
And a number of municipalities are coming on to this as well Columbus in Ohio Hamilton County Ohio other municipalities in Virginia.
Additionally we have won programs with several federal agencies such as FEMA OCC the Department of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms and the District of Columbia Court System.
So moving to Mexico.
MasterCard recently announced a partnership with a Mexican government-owned institution that provides credit to government and private-sector employees.
Currently this institution has 700 000 closed-loop credit cards that can be used at 30 000 affiliated merchant locations.
By entering into the partnership with us all of these closed-loop cards will be reissued as MasterCard-branded credit cards and expand their use to include all MasterCard-accepting locations across Mexico.
We're also continuing to work with merchants.
And I'm just going to highlight one that's really interesting.
MasterCard and Nakumatt Holdings the largest supermarket chain in East Africa have partnered with 2 banks Diamond Trust Bank and Kenya Commercial Bank to convert over 1 million propriety loyalty cards to multicurrency EMV PayPass-enabled prepaid cards.
Nakumatt has a presence in Kenya Uganda Rwanda and Tanzania that serve about 80 million shoppers every year.
And this deal basically gives MasterCard very strong brand association at the local level in these countries as well as preference at the point-of-sale.
It's the largest prepaid merchant agreement for MasterCard in the Middle East and Africa region to date.
And while on prepaid let's just move on to India and what we're doing there with Thomas Cook and Western Union.
So let me start with Thomas Cook.
They're launching a MasterCard-exclusive multicurrency foreign-exchange travel card.
They're calling it the Borderless Prepaid Card.
Thomas Cook is India's largest travel and travel-related financial services company and they will become the first nonbanking entity in India to launch a prepaid foreign-exchange travel card.
They will also be using Access Prepaid as the program manager.
This Borderless Prepaid Card will allow travelers to load as many as 8 currencies on 1 card that got a ton of other consumer-friendly fun features.
Western Union and ICICI Bank in India have just launched a MasterCard Prepaid Card with a focus on people who don't have a bank account and want to avoid carrying cash.
So this new prepaid card offers the underbank [ph] a way to store and access the money.
And the idea is that eventually we will add remote top-ups and card-to-card transfers to this card.
On the debit front we are continuing to see robust momentum in the U.S.
with independent banks and credit unions.
Adding to the more than 200 deals we completed this year we had a number of wins and renewals with customers such as C1 Credit Union [ph] Gulf Coast Bank Home Federal Bank Midland States Bank Wintrust Financial.
At our investor meeting last month one of the things we touched on was our focus on and our confidence in our ability to gain momentum and share in the U.S.
market for consumer credit and co-brands.
Over the past month we've begun to hit some of the singles and doubles that Chris McWilton talked about during that meeting.
We have renewed our sales co-brand program.
We have won the co-brand portfolio of RCI the world's largest timeshare company.
And additionally we have secured 4 significant consumer co-brand deals with one of our larger issuers.
I'm just not at liberty to announce that deal yet but we will as soon as we can.
Just to let you know these co-brand deals span several merchant verticals.
We have a lot of work to do in this segment but we have begun moving in the right direction.
Moving on to innovation and our activities around innovation and around mobile payments in particular.
Let me just bring across a couple of new partnerships.
Now we recently announced our partnership with NTT DoCoMo Japan's leading mobile operator where basically we are aiming to expand contactless payment options for Japanese consumers.
The collaboration will connect DoCoMo's domestic payment network to the rest of the world enabling consumers using their smartphones to make contactless payments outside of Japan anywhere that MasterCard PayPass is accepted.
We also launched an exclusive 5-year partnership with Everything Everywhere the U.K.'s largest mobile operator to develop mobile and digital payment solutions for their customers.
In Poland T-Mobile and MasterCard announced that PTC the local operator of the T-Mobile network will begin offering mobile payments based on our PayPass technology.
The offer which will be made available with 5 major banks in Poland as part of its service called MyWallet is one of the first advanced solutions commercially implemented in Europe.
It's an expansion of the global cooperation between Deutsche Telekom which owns T-Mobile and us.
And if you remember we announced this collaboration a little earlier this year.
And also in Poland.
MasterCard Orange and mBank are launching a service called MasterCard Orange Cash which is really a PayPass prepaid card in a mobile phone kind of getting them a SIM access to their prepaid card that will support contactless payments.
Finally over the last 2 quarters I've talked about the progress we made on our DataCash business.
This quarter let me give you a few new highlights.
In Brazil DataCash and Redecard recently signed a deal to provide payment processing and fraud and risk management services.
The deal which is our first e-commerce gateway offering in Latin America will be rolled out in the first half of 2013.
Latin America as you know does not have a great deal of offering in this space so we think this is actually quite a breakthrough.
In Europe DataCash's home territory we are continuing to make progress signing agreements with varied clients as different as the National Bank of Greece on the one hand; Foxtons in the U.K.
where almost 80% their payments are now being made online; and a contract renewal with Domino's Pizza which is delightful for their U.K.
Ireland and Germany operations.
So now let me turn the call over to Martina for a detailed update on our financial results.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of our slide deck.
So for the third quarter we saw good performance considering the very tough comps we were up against from the third quarter of last year.
As Ajay already said this performance is in line with the expectations that we spoke about our investor meeting in September.
Net revenue grew 5% or 10% after adjusting for currency driven by volume and transaction growth as well as new deals.
Total operating expenses increased 5% or 8% after adjusting for currency.
So bottom line we delivered net income of $772 million up 8% or 13% after adjusting for currency and diluted earnings per share of $6.17 up 10% or 15% after adjusting for currency.
As I mentioned last quarter we continued to work on our tax planning strategies.
And we were able to realize some benefits from these strategies in the third quarter.
These benefits are primarily due to certain tax initiatives some of which are discrete items in the period.
Cash flow from operations was $1 billion and we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalent and other liquid investments of about $5.6 billion.
While not shown on this slide during the third quarter we purchased about 500 000 shares at a cost of approximately $216 million.
And through October 25 we repurchased an additional 255 000 shares at a cost of $119 million.
And we now have $1.1 billion remaining under the current authorization.
And we will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
So let's turn to Page 4 where you can see the operational metrics for the third quarter of 2012.
In general the third quarter performance of our business drivers was in line with what we presented on a quarter-to-date basis at our investor meeting in September.
So let's turn to our volume metrics.
First worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 14% on a local currency basis.
U.S.
GDV grew 7%.
Debit growth in the U.S.
remains healthy at 14%.
Credit volumes in the U.S.
grew about 1%.
Commercial credit growth remains strong in the mid-teens.
And as you know we are still having work to do in U.S.
consumer credit.
Outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 17% on a local currency basis including mid-teens growth in Europe and Latin America and more than 20% growth in APMEA.
The growth rates outside of the U.S.
were driven by the strength in both MasterCard credit and debit volumes which were up 13% and 23% respectively.
Cross-border volume grew 14% on a local currency basis including mid-teens growth in Latin America and Europe and high-teens growth in Asia-Pacific Middle East Africa.
So turning to Slide 5.
Here you can see processed transactions were up 24% slightly lower than the growth rates that we saw in the first and the second quarter.
As expected this deceleration was mainly driven by the lapping of our processing win in the Netherlands which was fully lapped by the end of this year.
Drilling down further about half of the 24% growth comes from the new PIN debit transactions in the U.S.
leaving about 12% as the underlying growth rate.
Now globally the number of cards grew 8% to 1.9 billion MasterCard and Maestro branded cards.
Now let's turn to Page 6.
And here we can discuss our revenue growth in a bit more detail.
Domestic assessments and cross-border fees grew both 8% on an as-reported basis and 12% after adjusting for currency.
Transaction processing fees grew 10% driven mainly by the 24% growth in processed transactions.
The gap between these 2 growth rates continues to be in the 13 to 14 percentage point range.
As we've mentioned previously the majority of this gap is caused by U.S.
PIN debit transactions and non-U.S.
transactions that both come with a lower-than-average revenue yield.
The remainder of the gap is primarily explained by FX.
Other revenues grew 11%.
And finally rebates and incentives increased 20% driven by the impact of new and renewed deals as well as volume growth.
Moving to Page 7 for some detail on expenses.
And here you can see total operating expenses.
And within that general and administrative expenses increased 10% due to higher personnel costs in support of our strategic growth initiatives.
So very similar to last quarter these include on-the-ground resources for prepaid commercial and mobile as well as supporting the growth in various markets and expansion into additional countries.
Advertising and marketing expense was 12% lower than last year's third quarter on an as-reported basis and 8% lower on an FX adjusted basis.
This increase was mainly due to the nonrecurrence of expenses related to last year's Rugby World Cup as well as the timing of certain initiatives this year.
Depreciation amortization increased 14% due primarily to increased capitalized software associated with our strategic projects.
So turning to Slide 8.
Let me discuss 2012 and really starting with an update of what we have seen for the fourth quarter through October 28.
Globally our cross-border volumes grew about 17% roughly 3 percentage points higher than what we saw in the third quarter.
This was primarily driven by Europe where cross-border growth improved from the mid-teens to the high-teens.
In the U.S.
our processed volume proxy for GDV grew 7% and that's pretty similar to our growth in the third quarter.
Processed volume growth outside of the U.S.
grew to about 15% which is just a bit higher than the 13% growth we saw in the third quarter.
And in Europe processed volume growth through October 28 was in the mid-teens versus the low-teens we saw in the third quarter.
Globally processed transaction growth was about 22% down from the 24% we saw in the third quarter and that's primarily due to the lapping of the PIN processing wins in the U.S.
and in the Netherlands.
So now I'd like to share with you our thoughts for the rest of 2012 which remains fairly consistent with what we shared with you at our recent investor day meeting on September 20.
We continue to expect second half revenue growth to be somewhat lower than the 13% FX adjusted growth rates we saw in the second quarter due to timing of new deals tougher comps and continued global economic uncertainty.
You saw the impact of these items on our third quarter results.
However some of what we expected in the third quarter for rebates and incentives will now likely materialize in the fourth quarter.
We remain committed to achieving a minimum 50% annual operating margin.
And we continue to expect only a small operating margin expansion in 2012 relative to 2011.
For the fourth quarter G&amp;A expense growth will be about the same as the growth rate we saw in the second and in the third quarter on an FX adjusted basis.
We continue to invest on our strategic growth initiative including the expansion of our Access Prepaid and DataCash acquisition which has now fully lapped.
As we have said before our 2012 A&amp;M spend is expected to be lower than 2011 on an FX adjusted and on an as-reported basis.
In addition the quarterly spend as a percentage of the full year will be very similar to 2011.
So regarding FX rates if you assume the euro continues to trade around $1.30 and Brazilian real continues to trade around the $2 level for the rest of the year we would expect about a 2 to 3 percentage point headwind to net revenue net income and EPS in the fourth quarter.
Based on some additional tax benefits we were able to record -- that we were able to record in the third quarter we now expect our full year 2012 tax rate to be about 30%.
Going forward as we said at investor day in order to calculate our 2013 to 2015 EPS objective CAGR you would need to use starting tax rate of 32% not 30%.
So finally as we outlined at our investor day meeting last month our new performance objective for the 2013 to 2015 period are: a net revenue CAGR of 11% to 14% a minimum annual operating margin of 50% and an earnings per share CAGR of at least 20%.
As you know these objectives are all on a constant-currency basis and exclude any new acquisitions.
Our assumptions also do not contemplate at this point a more pronounced deterioration in the U.S.
economy or more significant problems within the Eurozone than what we're already seeing.
And as I said at last month's investor meeting while we have a 3-year CAGR objective in any given year the actual net revenue growth could be above or below our 11% to 14% range.
Based on our current expectations of the economic environment we expect that net revenue and EPS growth in the early part of this year might be slightly below the range.
In later years assuming the world returns to a more stable environment we believe net revenue growth could be at the higher end of the range and that could also benefit EPS growth in that particular period.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] John? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to get some clarification on the European wins with Nordea and CSOB.
Could you just clarify the specifics on the expansion of those relationships? For example does debit now move exclusively to you? And also can you just touch on the timing of those -- of when those wins ramp into your numbers? And then just secondarily on the rebates line if Martina you could just clarify what you guys are expecting for the fourth quarter.
Okay Sanjay.
So Nordea we have signed in the Nordics.
We have signed Swedbank some time ago right? And what Nordea really is first is the signing of their consumer credit and the co-brand portfolios which are primarily driven off credit in the Nordics.
What we've also done is that they have expanded into the Baltics as a bank.
And in the Baltics we've got both debit and credit with them.
So in the Nordics we don't have debit with them we have credit and co-brand.
In the Baltics we have debit and credit.
And so when you put all that together that I said we'll kind of double our market share across credit and debit in the Nordic and Baltic regions over the next 3 years.
Now why 3 years? Because these are phased and we're not doing a master flip on 1 day.
It's kind of a phased-in reissuance when the cards come up for reissuing over there.
In the Czech Republic with CSOB so that one is actually what we're doing there is to flip them into getting more cards with us.
We think that because it's such a large player there we could get a 20% increase in our share of cards in the Czech Republic.
This will kind of take between 8 months and 2 years to complete.
It's not an overnight flip either.
So Sanjay with respect to your second question on the rebate line.
So what I was just saying is that we did actually expect to have a little bit higher rebates than the incentive line in the third quarter than what we have and that simply what happened is that a number of the deals that we expected to sign in the third quarter are slipping into the fourth quarter.
And as you know from a seasonal perspective our fourth quarter is typically the highest quarter from a rebates and incentives point of view simply because at that point in time you have the holiday season going on you have a number of merchant initiatives and incentives going on.
So I just want to make sure that everybody captures that.
And we've got a pretty full deal pipeline.
So that's kind of why she is so careful about this point.
Our next question comes from Craig Maurer from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I actually had 2 questions.
One is have you heard any rumblings out of Brazil in terms of the regulatory environment potential changes down there? And secondly in terms of U.S.
credit you said you continue to look at initiatives.
But my only question there is is there really anything to do other than continue to support your existing partners and wait for deals to come up for possible renewal wins? So Brazil nothing new that I've heard in the rumblings other than what's been there for a while with imposing taxes in foreign purchases and the like.
But I haven't picked up anything new.
The part about credit in the U.S.
Commercial credit in the U.S.
we're actually doing really well.
Strong growth mid-teens.
It's consumer credit that we were talking about.
And there are 2 parts to it.
One part is clearly the part of our working with existing issuers.
We've got a mix of issuers and you know who those are and you know who our competitive brands has got a mix of issuers.
You also know which banks are coming out of the cycle faster in some cases than the others.
There's only so much we can do on that other than work with the existing portfolios as you said to see if there's opportunity for those banks that could exist to work that portfolio harder.
But the other part of it has got a lot to do with kind of getting small wins going whether it be independent banks and credit unions which we've been doing consistently for the 1.5 years 2 years but kind of focusing on that.
And the other part is co-brands.
And co-brands keep coming up.
And as they come up we work with them.
But there's also geographic expansions on new products.
So a number of the regional banks are going into different kinds of new products in the credit space so their balance sheet as you know was somewhat better than those of some of the larger banks.
And those all come up for being available for a discussion.
Almost all these banks are in dialogue with us at some stage or the other.
So it's a slow fix.
It doesn't happen overnight unless you get some big change in the portfolio.
But if we do it systematically and we're doing it systematically with the independent banks and credit unions and working with our current customers and looking at all the co-brands then I'm convinced that over a period of a couple of years we can make a really big difference to this number.
Our next question comes from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Ajay it looks like the cross-border started to accelerate nicely in October particularly around Europe.
Can you just talk a little bit more on what you're seeing on the ground in Europe? It seems like maybe the worst is behind you.
Yes.
Don I don't know that I'd go that far about being the worst behind.
I honestly -- I'm as surprised as you are by the first 4 weeks of this quarter.
Mind you it is there in the first 3 weeks too.
So if you look at this data as of October 21 you'll discover a similar trend.
So it feels like the fourth week is similar to the first 3.
And I don't know if that makes a trend but in another month or so I'll feel a little differently.
Right now I just see a complicated economic environment out there.
I see and I've said this openly I think of the U.S.
as being in actually a relatively better shape as an economy than a lot of people give it credit for both between individuals and corporate balance sheets.
I think if the government was able to show some degree of clarity and leadership around solving for the cliff I suspect the U.S.
economy could provide a surprise on upside to almost every kind of company.
But that has to happen before you can say that.
And nobody knows what will actually come out of that over the next month or 2.
Now you go to Europe.
And like it's been we feel fortunate as a company.
The mix of our business is biased towards Northern Europe and towards the emerging economies of Europe.
And that has really seen us in good stead while Russia has slowed in growth a little bit.
But when you slow in growth from a large double-digit number to a slightly less large double-digit number I'll take that every day of the week.
And so that's helped us.
We are less exposed to Portugal and Ireland and Greece and Spain.
We've kind of said in the past that only 5% of our revenue as a company comes from the PIGS economies and that kind of helped us.
So I think that part of what you're seeing in our numbers is our relatively high exposure to the economies that seemed to be doing better.
In the last 2 or 3 months I have been in the Nordics I've been in Germany.
So I've actually seen a couple of these economies firsthand.
And yes they do look different from what you see in Southern Europe.
As we come to Asia and Latin America.
In Asia China is showing some impact and you read about it.
But remember we don't do domestic processing in China we do cross-border.
Cross-border is just fine thank you and that's been helpful.
And then you look at India.
And India yes the economy is slowing but it's 66% driven by domestic consumption which is still doing pretty well.
And so our mix of business is what is allowing us to weather this storm in the way we are doing it and that's what's factored into all our thinking when we spoke to you at investor day about how we think about the next 3 years.
We think of 2013 as being probably more complicated than 2014 and '15.
And 2013 may well bring as Martina said our revenue and our EPS somewhere lower than the range we gave you.
But remember it's a cumulative average growth rate we're talking about.
We'll probably end up somewhere better in the next 2 years and that's how we look at our business and its mix.
It's a long answer to a simple question.
But actually that ain't a simple question Don.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment on the U.S.
domestic debit market? You provided some helpful disclosures there about half of the growth rate of 24% coming from the PIN debit side.
Just wondering are we completely through the portfolio conversions? Do you have any insight into your pipeline? You've had some nice U.S.
wins on the debit side seemed to have slowed over the last year.
I think we're almost full lapping of that so the 12% -- I guess my question is is the 12% for the core growth rate absent those portfolio conversions? And also where is the track and the trend on the PIN debit side? Are you maintaining your share gains? Has Visa's PIN-authenticated Visa Debit had any impact on your debit wins on the PIN side? Any color would be helpful.
So Chris let me take this.
First of all for the quarter yes the 12% was the underlying growth rate when you strip out -- most of the differential to the 24% was really related to the new debit PIN business in the United States.
I think I want to differentiate between the PIN business and the signature debit business.
On the PIN business as you know because of the regulatory changes that have to happen in the U.S.
there was a big push in the first -- in the second -- really in the second and the third quarter and that is what we saw into the numbers.
Having said that we're going to continued work on the PIN business but I don't think you should be expecting going forward to have a similar push to what have to happen leading up to April 15 of this year.
On the signature debit side again you should be expecting that we're working those portfolios in a fairly significant way.
So we have deal pipelines and you should just expect that you will see these kind of more normal cadence that we enjoyed during time.
So whether the 12% underlying growth rate is going to persist that depends.
We have it now for a number of quarters.
As you know it really depends on how consumers are using their debit cards going forward.
I think the one other question that you had was in terms of are we seeing any particular losses on the PIN business.
Again as you know it's a complicated business.
So far we've been able to get a nice share on this.
We have not seen any material deterioration on that versus the last quarter and we'll be continuing to work this space as we see fit.
Chris the only thing I'd add to that is that you asked specifically about Visa's pricing strategy.
And yes they've got that pricing strategy rolled out over there.
We are not playing the game the way they are.
This is my own understanding.
I think they are impacting the regional networks more right now with that pricing strategy than the wins that we've got but that could change.
So we are very carefully watching it.
We've got great MIS now.
We've got great ability to track this stuff by merchant by geography.
And our team is very conscious of keeping our head above water on what we are doing here.
So that's what we are up to.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask a quick follow-up? On the acquiring side there was I think a licensing fee.
I think Martina you actually characterized it as a pricing change in the U.S.
in your last public comments.
I just wanted to confirm that that was fully impacting this quarter.
My understanding was it kicked in July 1 but I didn't see it.
Yes there was a full impact this quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I just didn't see any sequential change in your growth rates in domestic assessments or rebates or anything like that so I guess...
No it's not in domestic assessment it's in other revenues.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so your comments that it was relatively small...
It is relatively small.
Now you're into 5 questions Chris.
That's 1 2 3 4 5.
But yes it is relatively small.
Next question comes from David Turgut from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Could you update us on your appeal of the European Commission pricing structure on cross-border debit and credit within the EU? And then just in connection with that we're hearing that the EC wants to regulate domestic interchange in the EU.
Do you have any reaction to that? And what might be any impact on your own pricing strategy? Well I've got Noah sitting next to me right here so Noah is going to chat with you about that.
Go ahead Noah.
Yes.
So as you know we filed our appeal as to the general court decision against the European Commission.
That's going to play out over some time.
So we have nothing else to add on that other than the fact that the appeal is pending.
And as to the question about the European Commission and domestic interchange I think it remains to be seen as to the positions they're going to take.
I mean that also is in play but time will tell as to whether ultimately they cease to regulate in that space.
Research Division</strong> And if the EC does regulate domestic interchange do you expect to maintain your own network pricing within the EU? Well who knows right? But I mean at the end of the day you've got to remember we don't make money out of the interchange.
And so we've got -- as what exactly we've discussed in many countries around the world pricing our ability to price our work with issuers our work with merchants yes the entire market moves around with interchange in terms of economics between merchants and banks.
But the impact on us comes more from what happens to total payment volumes and the interest that issuers have in expanding the payments business and the interest that merchants have in accepting electronic payments.
And that's the way we look at it rather than "Oh if interchange changes what happens to my pricing?" It hasn't proven to work that way for many years now.
So we keep getting the same question I keep giving the same answer.
So hopefully I'm consistent with that one buddy.
Our next question comes from Gil Luria from Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about what impact you expect from the new retailer joint venture that they referred to MCX.
They've tried legislating against you Durbin ended up being a net positive.
Litigating you seemed to be selling on pretty decent terms.
So now they're trying to compete with you do you think they have the resources and the will to build an alternative payment network? And in the shorter term do you think the fact that they'll capture a lot of aggregate data means that they will have less demand for the data you sell from MasterCard Advisors? So you've got 2 or 3 questions in there.
And the first part is this whole MCX has got very little detail on what they are doing what they intend to do.
It's very difficult for me to give you much specific commentary on that.
Do they have the resources and the will to do something about MCX? Yes.
Does that add up to real payments network? Not really if you think of what a payments network brings if you look at the totality of it.
So I think there are 2 very different angles in there.
We have looked -- a number of them are already business partners of ours and those are important retailers.
And we're always talking with them about what we could do with them and for them.
So that dialogue is ongoing.
I think the aspect of data yes some of them will be collecting more data.
But remember this that the data we have cuts across millions of merchants in lots of geographies.
The ability for our data to be somewhat therefore more predictive than that of any group of retailers is still very strong.
What we do not do which we don't do even today we do not collect SKU level data and we do not collect individual names.
One of the best parts about our data is that we are not collecting your name.
In fact your name doesn't come to us in the transaction.
What comes to is a card number a merchant code a dollar value and a time of the transaction.
And I think that still remains in our benefit that we aren't actually crossing the line into an individual's name.
So our way of using our data is different.
And I think there's enough space in this growing big data market for us and some others to be competing.
So I'm less concerned about that aspect of it.
Our next question comes from Jason Kupferberg from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any way to get a sense of potential impacts from Hurricane Sandy on your U.S.
your cross-border volumes? I'm sure a lot of international trips probably got canceled or postponed by the storm.
Anything that you would suggest could end up being material understanding you wouldn't have any kind of specific numbers at this point? So Jason when we did the analysis on other of such storms in other parts of the country or in the world net-net in the end of the day you see very little impact so we might be.
When we see our weekly data for this week we might be.
We definitely we'll be seeing some impact but usually over time that evens out.
And so what you have to understand if you were in New York City on Saturday and Sunday first of all everybody went to the shops and I am surprised that the shops have any type of food still on the shelves because everybody was buying like crazy and stocking up.
This is obviously a benefit because I saw a lot of MasterCards coming out of the wallets to be used for that.
Then we probably have a little bit of a down period and of course people were not dining.
Of course you have tourists probably laying low in the hotels.
Hopefully they did some good spending there.
And then after the storm you have people starting to come out again.
And unless -- I mean I hope some of the food was spoiled so they're going to have to stock back up again.
And they have some pent-up demand.
I believe this weekend you will see some of that coming in.
So in the end when we look at these kind of storms -- and this was a 2- 3-day kind of event so it was actually a relatively defined event.
We believe that over the quarter you are not going to see some impact.
And obviously we're wishing well for everybody who had to go through this terrible storm.
The other angle Jason is that a lot of foreign tourists were also stuck here.
Others may not have been able to come in so it's kind of worked both ways.
It's tough to predict but there's no doubt that it creates a whole new element of uncertainty in so many people's lives with all they've been through.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
No all that color makes sense.
And just for a follow-up on the merchant litigation since you guys have Noah there any concerns on the opt-outs getting to 25% of total or any other circumstances you can foresee as you go through this multistep process towards finalizing or truly finalizing the settlement? Anything that could potentially derail it? Or is your level of confidence in having it go forward with essentially the same terms that we first heard about in July is that level of confidence intact? So Noah actually ran out of the room as soon as you started your question.
He's here right now.
Go ahead Noah.
Thanks for the opportunity to respond to him.
Let me say that as you know Judge Gleeson issued his order as far as preliminary approval is concerned.
And we're pleased that he indicated that despite request for a protracted briefing efforts in so far as the approval is concerned he set a short date for a hearing and indicated that preliminary approval is appropriate where we have a situation where the proposal is the result of serious negotiation between the parties.
So we feel pretty good about that moving forward in a rapid manner.
At this point there have been some merchants as you know that are objecting to the settlement.
But I would point out that of the original merchants in the class setting aside the trade associations a majority of those merchants actually signed the settlement agreement.
And that's in addition to the 22 individual merchants that were plaintiffs that also agreed to the terms.
So at the end of the day we think the prospects are good.
But really it's up to the judge who will openly determine the fairness of the settlement.
At the end of the day there can be opt-outs.
And if even that 25% number is reached it's still up to the defense -- defendants to decide whether to go forward with the settlement.
So we believe we feel good about the prospects.
And again it's up to the judge to determine the ultimate fairness of the settlement.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think you feel pretty good about the appeal process assuming that that occurs post Judge Gleeson's ruling.
Absolutely.
Our next question comes from Rod Bourgeois from Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to inquire about the SEPA situation.
I mean you had some pretty good SEPA wins in recent years.
Can you give us an update on the latest process for additional domestic processing wins in Europe? Recognizing that the EU is pushing pretty aggressively for regulation in Europe does that regulatory push in Europe at all maybe in the next 6 months alter your ability to win SEPA deals in Europe? And does it make it more likely that future SEPA wins are further down the road rather than over the next 2 or 3 quarters? So not really.
There's actually many different parts in Europe like everything else in Europe right? And the fact is that if you look to the third quarter our domestic transactions now that they're lapping all those humongous wins in the Netherlands still grew 26%.
We're still growing pretty handsomely in the Netherlands per se.
And we grew by an enormous number in Belgium.
We are beginning to grow in Austria.
We are growing domestic transactions in Germany.
We've been able to implement a Maestro Fraud Shield in Germany to help reduce fraud and protect all our international Maestro acceptance.
And in fact we think that by the end of the year 80% of all German Maestro cards which is a number well in the excess of tens of millions of cards will be on this tool which is a derivative of inControl.
We are sort of -- we are working with ING to be issuing PayPass-enabled cards in Netherlands starting January.
I've talked to you about the Nordea win.
I've talked to you about Swedbank.
We've got a pipeline of deals across SEPA in this space both in terms of traditional wins as well as processing.
So I would say to you there's different parts going on.
This all the day-to-day business where there is all the effect of SEPA and the payment systems directive that is still flowing through.
There is the issue of what's going to happen with the appeal as Noah said and what's going to happen with the green paper.
But guys every bank is moving forward and we are all moving forward with that business.
There's no doubt that continued regulatory uncertainty always makes people uncomfortable.
But Europe's been having some of this uncertainty for quite a while now.
It's not a new event in Europe.
So that's kind of where we are right now with all this.
Having said that winning domestic processing in Europe is not something that happens in 3 months.
Any one deal takes quite a while to happen.
So I'm not sitting and fretting about that issue right now in my numbers for the next few months or quarters.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just really quick as a follow-up on a related note.
It's good to hear that you don't have any major renewals until 2014.
On the deal that you -- the large client that you recently renewed did the European push for regulation have any effect on your sort of new contract with this bank in Europe? Crédit Agricole you're talking about.
No nothing at all.
I mean listen every big bank in every part of the world negotiates hard to protect their interest and negotiates hard to protect their growth as with every big merchant whom we talk to.
So there's always that pressure with every institution each and every time.
It's been that way since 25 years so that's there.
But I can tell you that there's no difference in our conversations with these institutions that's coming out of this.
They all want to know what's going on with the green paper.
They want to understand our strategy compared to that of our largest competitors.
They want to comprehend what our approach is in terms of affluent cards and nonaffluent cards.
They want to make sure that they understand what we are doing.
But beyond that it's a pretty healthy dialogue.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So there's no terms in that contract that are contingent upon regulatory outcomes.
You were able to get everything etched in stone despite...
No.
And that's question number 3 Rod.
No.
Our next question comes from Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> There's been a lot of focus and a lot of attention on mobile acceptance technologies in the U.S.
like Square and similar offerings.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit about what you're seeing I guess in terms of mobile acceptance similar types of mobile acceptance technologies in emerging markets and whether -- I guess just thinking about the potential for there to be kind of a step change in electronic payment penetration rates in the emerging markets as a result of not having to kind of have the traditional point-of-sale infrastructure laid out.
Anything that you're seeing there? And secondly as a follow-up if you could also talk about from the standpoint of your conversations with other mobile network operators whether sorting out or hashing through the economics of partnerships it seems like it's something that is taking place on a case-by-case basis.
But I wonder if you could give any comment as to whether that's a sticking point or any color around that.
So I mean I'll answer the second one a little bit quickly and then we'll go to the first one.
In the second one it's absolutely correct that there is a case-by-case approach right now.
And the reason for that is no one's clear how this will develop over a period of time.
So the traditional role of an operator versus a hardware manufacturer versus the bank versus the merchant versus the network is still moving around.
And the one big difference is that everybody's there playing.
A little while back we used to all talk about how the mobile networks would be able to do all this without the banks and the payment network.
So I think you've seen that dialogue completely change through the efforts we've put in.
We now have 30 of these partnerships around the world.
I talked about it a few -- a little while ago today.
But if you add up what we've been doing over a period of time there are a ton of these around the world.
I remain convinced these will take time to come to fruition.
I remain convinced that infrastructure has to be built that these economic terms have to be agreed to that consumer behavior has to adjust and adapt for it to come to fruition.
One of the aspects of infrastructure that could help which has not to do with mobile payments it has to do with the other side of this which is your first part which is the mobile as a point-of-sale which could transform the acceptance of casual merchants smaller merchants and merchants with inadequate fixed line infrastructure in countries like India and South Africa and different parts of the world.
There's momentum.
We've invested in a company like iZettle for example which is out there trying to build this.
We've got a great partnership with Square.
We're actually talking to them about going to countries outside of the U.S.
There's other players.
There's Rev.
There's a couple of other players out there that are trying to think about how to use alternative methods to enhance the experience of using a mobile as a point-of-sale.
We ourselves are doing stuff as well which is in MasterCard Labs that some of you have seen that also works with using tablets and mobility devices as a point-of-sale.
These are all -- they're happening but they're far out there.
What I was talking about in India for example with the unique identification authority with fingerprinting that I've talked about a few quarters ago that relies on the mobile being -- having a fingerprint reader attached to it in a small village shop which can then be used to enable transactions from the bank accounts into which a direct deposit of subsidies is made.
So there's a lot of work going on.
We have developed that technology.
It is in our system because we have 1 release around the world.
We don't have 1 part of the world as an association.
We've got everything together.
We've got 1 release around the world.
We kind of have this done.
And we are ready to bring it into different countries as it rolls along.
So we're working very hard on it at the front end.
But I'd say it's not going to happen tomorrow.
It's going to be a slow build over the course of a few years.
Our next question comes from Andrew Jeffrey from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Martina could you just clarify in terms of the rebates and incentive commentary with regard to the fourth quarter is the higher level specifically tied to current period deal signings? Or is it related also to the higher volume within existing contracts? Well first of all as you know our fourth quarter has always enjoyed the highest level of rebates and incentives right? So I'd say you've got to have --  so if you look at our quarterly cadence over the last 10 years it always was higher in the fourth quarter.
And as we told you before it was really higher in the fourth quarter primarily due to what's going on around the holidays and what we might be doing from a merchant initiative point to view right? So now secondly what you're having going on in the fourth quarter is that we have a very robust deal pipeline as Ajay said.
And some of the deals we did not sign in the third quarter I fully expect them to come through in the fourth quarter and then you would see a little bit of an up there too.
Lastly you have just seen for October that our volumes are just a tad higher not in the United States but outside of the United States as well as with cross-border.
So depending on whether that will persist for the remaining 2 months of the quarter you might see a little bit of an uptick there too.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's helpful.
And as a follow-up it sounds like you're being very disciplined in your PIN debit share strategy.
Is there anything Ajay that you've seen intrinsically change with regard to PIN debit profitability? I know you've always mentioned that the revenue yield is lower but they're still very profitable transactions.
Is there anything that's at all been altered by the pricing environment with regard to the ROI on PIN debit or just the incremental profitability? No Andrew.
Nothing has changed on that front.
In fact as time goes by as we see more of these transactions I'm kind of hoping that I'll be able to do something with that data to help my Advisors business.
But typically you need to see some years of real data to make that predictability improve even further.
So that's not a 2013 event.
But seeing more data is really important to our company.
It makes a big difference to the values of what we sell in addition to just being a network.
And so it's important and we are working very hard.
Whether it be to the SEPA question that Rod was asking or your question right now it really matters.
We have a question from Tien-Tsin Huang from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick clarifications.
Is this the small operating benefit expected for the year? In the past you said that you could spend I guess some more on incremental growth investments.
I didn't hear that this quarter.
I'm curious of the change.
And to the extent that there are incremental growth investments will they be organic in the form of hiring people or inorganic like buying tech assets? Just trying to assess where G&amp;A could shake out as we get through the end of the year.
So you're stealing my closing comments.
But that is kind of -- I have every intention to keep using opportunities to put money back in.
Frankly one of the things I'm trying to do very clearly and concisely is truly look at the company's tax profile.
We used to pay a much higher tax rate.
We are working very hard in the company to bring that tax rate down through 2 things.
One is consistent proper tax planning in terms of where our different assets are located and how the revenue reaches those assets compared to the tax rates in that geography and considering the tax rates across the United States and that geography.
The second is all the clearing up of one-timers that Martina and Tim have done -- and Tim Berger have done an outstanding job on.
So my attitude is to use those 2 in addition to business growth that I feel may give me better margins at different points of time and keep putting that back into short-term opportunities.
But I also want to put our cash back into longer-term opportunities whether it'd be the acquisitions of the type Tien-Tsin that be it DataCash access or Truaxis or be it the purchasing of patent portfolios from Vivotech recently which we also announced I don't know Noah for a month or so ago 1.5 months 2 months ago? So I'm trying to do a bunch of things that are both short-term and medium-term in nature by using these opportunities.
And that's not changed at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that makes sense.
The other clarification I'll let you go just the October trends for U.S.A.
credit and debit did you give that Martina? Or did I miss it? Yes.
What I did is I basically talked about our processed volume proxy for GDV and the U.S.
And I said it grew up to October 28 at 7% which is very similar to what you saw in the third quarter.
The improvement Tien-Tsin in the 4 quarters -- 4 weeks of October has been mostly outside of the U.S.
and has been in every region outside of the U.S.
But in the U.S.
it's been kind of the same number as we saw during the third quarter.
Okay.
Ajay you've got some closing comments? Yes now that Tien-Tsin has stolen them.
But guys thanks to all your questions.
And we've basically delivered a solid third quarter.
And I want to make this point that it's right in line with the expectations that we had as we lapped that exceptional third quarter of last year.
We believe the markets are going to stay unpredictable for the next I don't know 12 18 months.
But dialing any -- barring any significant deterioration in global economic conditions we are very committed to our new performance objectives for the 2013 to '15 period.
And as Martina indicated and we spoke of in our recent investor day and I just said so again in answer to one of the questions our net revenue and EPS growth could be slightly below the range early in that 3-year period.
Now my view is unchanged.
The payments space is a great business to be in.
85% of the world's transactions are still being conducted using cash.
That provides us a strong driver for revenue even during periods of overall economic uncertainty that impacts per capita expenditure.
We continue to look at targeted investments and partnership opportunities to help drive our strategic focus areas for short- and long-term growth.
That's the Tien-Tsin portion.
And with that thank you all for your time today and thank you for your faith in the company.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
(Operator Instructions) Later we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I’ll now turn the call over to Barbara Gasper.
You may begin Barbara.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today either by phone or webcast for a discussion about our fourth quarter and full-year 2012 financial results.
With me on the call this morning are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website mastercard.com.
Both the earnings release and the slide deck include reconciliations of any non-GAAP measures to their GAAP equivalent.
All of these documents have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one week through February 7th.
And finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today’s call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to our CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
As usual before Martina gets into the details of our financial results I’d like to give you some of my thoughts from another level of looking at our business.
In the fourth quarter we reported net revenue growth of 10% and that’s really 12% after adjusting for currency.
And that drove operating income growth of 18% which excludes last year’s special item for the litigation charge and a reported EPS growth of 21% or FX adjusted that EPS growth is 24%.
So this quarter completed a solid year with performance in line with our expectations.
For the full-year 2012 reported net revenue grew 10% that number FX adjusted is 13%.
The primary drivers of this will process transaction growth rates that reached the mid-20s as well as annual GDV and cross-border volumes in the mid-teens.
We also delivered a reported EPS growth of 18% for the year or 22% FX adjusted.
So now let me talk a little bit about the global environment and I know that’s on everybody’s minds and let’s start with the United States where we continue to see a mixed economic picture.
The economy was a bit choppy in the fourth quarter with Hurricane Sandy and the fiscal cliff debate negatively impacting both consumer confidence and retail sales.
Consumer confidence levels actually declined 11% over the quarter and our SpendingPulse data showed that retail sales growth x auto decelerated each moth from October through December.
For the quarter as a whole retail sales growth x auto was up 3.9% over the prior-year from 4.2% in the third quarter so you can see that trend between the third and fourth quarter and within the fourth quarter the monthly growth rate was decelerating.
However there were also some positive trends.
So in December consumer spending increased in 8 of the 11 retail sectors that we track in SpendingPulse with the strongest growth continuing to come from furniture hardware associated with what we’ve been saying for a while was the rebound in housing.
But this December lodging and restaurants also showed strong growth in sales.
Unemployment rates have remained steady although this morning’s picture does show an increase but this is the fourth quarter we’re talking about and we continue to see improvements in the underlying housing market.
So any optimism that we have about the economy however will be tempered until we see what happens to consumer confidence and spending once these fiscal policy issues are addressed over the next few months.
All in all Q4 was worst than Q3 in terms of the market in terms of consumer spending and confidence in the United States and despite that MasterCard's fourth quarter U.S.
GDV growth was 7% which kind of is the same as what we had in the third quarter.<br><br>Let's go to Europe and as you know the region's economic environment is complicated.
It's probably going to remain that way over the next few quarters.
Looking first to the UK where SpendingPulse data actually showed the year's strongest retail sales growth occurred in the fourth quarter 3.8% and consumer confidence levels have improved over all these four quarters the last four.<br><br>However the UK economy as a whole contracted in the fourth quarter and for all we know it may be headed for another small decline in the first quarter.
If that were to happen it would make it the third time that the UK has had a technical recession since 2008.
So we expect UK consumers to remain cautious.
It's still not clear to me whether the positive spending and confidence trends will continue into 2013 but the fourth quarter was interesting at a good surprise.<br><br>Looking across the Eurozone consumer confidence declined slightly business sentiment remained weak in the fourth quarter and as you know Northern Europe still is in a different position from some of the impacted countries in the peripheral markets.
But having said all that reflecting on how this picture impacted us in Europe we saw solid GDV growth in the mid-teens similar to the rest of 2012 driven by the relatively stronger economies as I just said of Northern Europe but also Eastern Europe with Poland and Russia continuing to be key contribute.
We also saw as I said a little earlier thanks to what happened in the UK we saw an acceleration in volume growth for the UK in the fourth quarter as well.<br><br>In Asia business and consumer sentiment is mixed across the major markets because after all economic uncertainty in the two largest consuming markets of the U.S.
and Europe will have an impact on the region.
But looking ahead however there may actually be cause for optimism.
China's GDP growth is projected to increase this year over the number of last year and frankly because of its size that could have a positive effect on sentiment across the rest of the region.
For our business in APMEA in AP Middle East and Africa fourth quarter GDV process transactions and cross-border volume growth all of them increased more than 20%.
Countries like Australia China India South Africa all contributed to that growth number.<br><br>So now let's talk GDP in Latin America.
Annual 2012 GDP growth estimates in some of the key markets like Brazil and Mexico.
As you know we're revised down in the fourth quarter with Mexico as it is always getting impacted by U.S.
economic conditions.
70%-odd of Mexico's GDP comes from in some way a collection of the United States.
In spite of that consumer sentiment across most of the regions increased.
All fourth quarter GDV and transaction growth was in the mid-teens actually a slight decline over what we saw earlier in the year but Brazil Mexico and Venezuela remained key contributors to our growth.<br><br>So given all this overall we have still got a cautious outlook going into 2013.
There is going to be uncertainty in Europe.
The U.S.
could well be on a path for a slow recovery but the fiscal policy discussions and circumstances have not been completely resolved.
They could affect consumer confidence further.
That would impact spending for at least the first half of the year.
In the meantime we will continue to maintain our focus on the execution of our strategy which as you know is the displacement of cash around the world supporting financial inclusion and also obviously driving to gain share in the electronic payments space and the 15% of retail payments that are already electronic.<br><br>So some highlights from our recent business activity.
We've said a couple of times now that U.S.
consumer credit is an area where we probably need to place more focus.
As you know our business is not one that turns on a dime it's got long lead lag times to sell in but we've got some new recent wins in this area.
So the first one is we've had a good relationship with the Intercontinental Hotel Group in other regions.
We have just announced now a new multiyear agreement for the United States that names MasterCard as the exclusive payment brand for the Intercontinental Hotel Group consumer credit portfolio as well as actually even more interestingly a broad range of marketing loyalty and innovation initiatives.
So that's the first one.<br><br>Second one Bass Pro Shops.
As you probably know of them they're one of America's premier outdoor merchandise retailers.
They will be converting their co-brand card portfolio starting in the middle of 2013 to us from a competitor.
In the fuel sector first we just renewed our agreement with Shell for their consumer Co-Brand Card Program at Gold but in addition we’ve just had another interesting opportunity in this space and we’ve become the exclusive payment partner for the Fuel Rewards Network Loyalty Program.
So when consumers linked any MasterCard card to this program and make everyday purchases at a participating grocery store restaurant online merchant they get extra discounts on gasoline purchases at Shell stations.
And this is in addition to the Shell Co-Brand Card which I just talked about.
So that’s kind of two things in the fuel space.<br><br>And in November KeyBank agreed to extend the exclusivity we have on that debit and prepaid programs to now include new issuance for both their consumer credit and commercial credit portfolio.
So as you know last year’s announcement with KeyBank was the added Maestro PIN debit capability to their debit and ATM programs.
We also signed them up for our IPS solution for their debit and prepaid transaction processing so this is really on to their credit side now.<br><br>And last quarter SunTrust launched a new portfolio platinum in world consumer credit MasterCard’s which are being made available through online but also through their branches.
So that’s some movement in that space.<br><br>Moving now to Canada we announced the launch of the Royal Bank of Canada RBC Target Co-Brand MasterCard Credit Card Program.
The card is going to be available online and of course in Target stores as they open new locations across Canada in the first half of 2013.
Its kind of the middle the RED Card Loyalty Program in the U.S.
which as you know is co-branded by a competitor.
And this then reinforce the leadership position in co-brand programs across Canada the kind of added target to a list of major merchants there with whom we’ve got successful partnerships Walmart The Hudson's Bay Company Loblaw’s the whole lot..<br><br>Continuing our momentum in the U.S.
commercial space we extended our existing agreement with the U.S.
Bank to include exclusivity for their Fleet and Aviation Card Programs.
This agreement also includes our EMS that’s Expert Monitoring Services Fraud Monitoring Product and MasterCard’s payment gateway for segments of their Corporate and Purchasing Card Programs.
And in 2012 U.S.
Bank actually became one of our top 10 commercial card issuers with all the partnership we’re doing with them.<br><br>We are continuing our work with governments and other partners to support financial inclusion for the underserved.
So let me highlight a few examples from Africa I’ve actually I’ve just come back from a trip to Kenya Nigeria and South Africa.
When I was there two weeks ago we announced an agreement with Equity Bank in Kenya one of East Africa’s largest financial institutions.<br><br>We’re going to be putting $5 million EMV debit and prepaid cards in the market over the next 18 months that’s probably one of the largest deals of that size in the African continent.
The rollout is expected to expand to Uganda Tanzania Rwanda and South Sudan which will make it the largest rollout of EMV payment cards in Sub-Saharan Africa.
That by the way 80% of the population is un-banked and that is the target that Equity Bank has.
They aim for that segment of the population.
That’s their history.<br><br>Last quarter we lost collaboration with Comviva Technologies and Tutuka to extend financial inclusion to millions of people across Africa.
Operators providing mobile money services will be able to offer prepaid cards or virtual card numbers linked to a stored value account and so then they can make purchases at any merchant that accepts MasterCard.
They’re also going to be able to use the service to pay bills do fund transfers 2011 and 2012 we have 25 new initiatives.
So let me give you two examples of what's going on in Brazil in this space.
You know we talked in November 2011 of the joint venture with Telefónica.
We announced the next phase of the JV with the rollout of a mobile prepaid product in the second quarter consumers will be able to load money to their mobile prepaid account make purchases conduct P2P payments phone top-ups and other financial transactions with their mobile phones.
They're also going to be able to load cash to that account at designated refill locations which are broader than just a Telefónica store.
It includes grocery stores and newspaper kiosks.<br><br>And now we've partnered with Tim the second largest mobile network operator in Brazil and Caixa Económica Federal which is a bank issuing partner of ours to launch a mobile money program in Brazil for Tim's 69 million subscribers.
So these two partnerships combined in Brazil will help us to serve almost 150 million mobile phone subscribers which is about 60% of the Brazilian mobile market.<br><br>So let's talk prepaid a couple of wins that we've had from the U.S.
and Europe which I can talk about.
MasterCard will become Aetna's preferred payment brand for their healthcare flexible spending accounts health savings accounts and prepaid stored value cards such as their Aetna ValuePass cards.
So these plans allow consumers as you know to access money in an account usually attached to a health plan to pay for eligible healthcare expenses with pre-tax dollars.<br><br>In Italy we have recently announced a deal with ENI which is one of Europe's largest oil companies to replace their loyalty card with MasterCard branded PayPass enabled prepaid and credit cards.
So cardholders will be able to collect loyalty points when shopping at ENI outlets or at any other location around the world where MasterCard is accepted.
ENI is planning to install PayPass terminals in their gas stations and coffee shops which is great news for us because that will make them the largest PayPass merchant in Europe when they complete this.<br><br>By the way we're now up to about 700 000 PayPass outlets around the world up from the 400 000-odd that we had at this time last year.
So this is all part of what we are trying to do with that whole space.
So now let's talk China and the Middle East for affluent travelers which I think will also help us enhance our cross-border business.
Let me give you a few examples.
The Bank of China launched a six-month program to drive cross-border transactions using our MasterCard reward services platform.
Bank of China MasterCard cardholders are earning credits for up to 10% of their purchases when they shop at luxury stores which as you know is a good way for the Chinese to spend money such as Louis Vuitton Cartier Prada in the U.S.
and Canada.<br><br>In Bahrain Al Baraka Bank and Nonoo Exchange launched the first platinum prepaid card in the country.
The card offers access to events and destinations as there is merchant funded discounts shopping privileges and all other kinds of premium experiences that make sense in the Bahrain market.
In the UAE we recently launched GoCash with UAE Exchange a leading regional remittance and exchange house.
So GoCash is the Middle East's first six-currency prepaid travel card.
So a consumer can load up six currencies Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on page 3 of our slide deck where you will see as reported growth numbers as well as the FX adjusted growth rates.
And all of my comments on this slide will pertain to the FX adjusted figures.<br><br>We are very pleased with our performance this quarter especially given the tough comps that we were up against the fourth quarter of last year.
Net revenue grew 12% driven by volume and transaction growth which also reflects the impact of the deals that we have signed over the last year.<br><br>Operating expenses grew 4% and together with net revenue growth resulted in net income growth of 21% and EPS growth of 24% also benefited from our share repurchase programs.<br><br>Now cash flow from operations was 866 million and we ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalent and other liquid investments of about 5 billion.
During the fourth quarter we purchased about 1.3 million shares at an approximate cost of $613 million.<br><br>Through January 25 we repurchased an additional 322 000 shares at a cost of about $165 million.
And we now have $440 million remaining under the current authorization.
We will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.<br><br>So let's first talk about the operational metrics for the fourth quarter and here we'll start on page 4.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 14% on a local currency basis.
In the U.S.
GDV grew 7%.
Debit growth in the U.S.
remains solid at 11%.
And credit volumes in the U.S.
grew about 2% with commercial credit growth up from last quarter in the high-teens.
U.S.
consumer credit improved slightly versus the last quarter but as Ajay said it is not where we wanted to be and we work – keep working at.<br><br>Outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 18% on a local currency basis and this includes to be driven – this continues to be driven by more than 20% growth in APMEA and mid-teens growth in Europe as well as in LAC.
Cross-border volume grew 17% on a local currency basis including high-teens growth in LAC and more than 20% growth in both Europe and APMEA.<br><br>Let me turn to page 5 and here you see our processed transactions were up just over 20%.
And that’s our sixth consecutive quarter of 20 plus percent growth.
As expected we continue to see a deceleration which was mainly driven by the full lapping of our processing win in the Netherlands as well as some lapping of U.S.
debit wins.
So let me drill further down into the numbers and a little less than half of the 20% growth comes from new PIN debit transactions in the U.S.
leaving about 12% as the underlying growth rate very similar to the last couple of quarters.
Globally the number of cards grew 8% to 1.9 billion MasterCard and Maestro branded cards.<br><br>Let’s now turn with this background to page 6 where you can see both the fourth quarter as reported and FX adjusted growth rates for each of our revenue line items.
So let me just comment on a couple of these categories.
Domestic assessments grew 9% while worldwide GDV grew 14%.
The gap between these two growth rates is 5 percentage points of which 2 percentage points is foreign exchange and the remainder is driven by relatively higher growth of ATM volume in emerging markets.<br><br>On cross-border volume fees they grew actually 14% while cross-border volumes grew 17%.
The primary reason for this difference is a higher proportion of intra Europe activity so that really means Europeans stayed closer to home and the resulting spend came with a lower revenue yield than when they travel outside of Europe.<br><br>Transaction processing fees grew 15% driven mainly by the 20% growth in process transactions.
Narrowing considerably from recent quarters the gap between these two growth rates can be attributed to U.S.
PIN debit transactions that come with a lower than average revenue yield.
Only a small portion of the gap is explained by foreign exchange.
And finally the distribution of rebates and incentives followed relatively the same pattern as last year with fourth quarter representing slightly less than 30% of full-year 2012 total rebates and incentive amount.<br><br>Let me move to page 7 where we've detailed the as reported in FX adjusted growth rates for our expense line items.
So within total operating expenses you see the increase in G&amp;A expense was primarily driven by the impact of increased salary costs as a result of hiring more people to support our growth initiatives.
We ended 2012 with approximately 7500 full-time employees.
The net impact of foreign exchange activity was also a factor in the G&amp;A increase primarily due to balance sheet re-measurement.
The decline in advertising and marketing expense was primarily due to the non-recurrence of certain promotions.<br><br>So let me turn now to slide 8 and let’s discuss 2013 starting with an update of what we have seen for the first quarter through January 28.
Globally our cross-border volumes grew about 18% and that’s just slightly higher than what we saw in the fourth quarter.
This was primarily driven by higher growth in our APMEA and LAC regions.
In the U.S.
our process volume proxy for GDV grew 6% that's just a bit lower than our fourth quarter growth primarily due to the lapping of some debit wins.
We did however see a slight increase in our consumer credit growth.<br><br>Process volume growth outside the U.S.
grew 15% which was a bit lower than what we saw in the fourth quarter.
And since all of you have a keen interest in Europe given the economic environment there our processed volume growth there was mid-teens similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter.<br><br>Globally process transaction growth was 17% down from the 20% we saw in the fourth quarter mainly driven by the full lapping of our Netherlands processing wins as well as some lapping of U.S.
debit wins.<br><br>As a reminder with the April 1st anniversary of the U.S.
regulatory change relating to debit card non-exclusivity we expect a deceleration in our process transaction growth rate for the rest of 2013.<br><br>So looking forward let me just start first with our long-term performance objectives.
We remain confident that our business can deliver in a 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR and at least 20% EPS CAGR over the 2013 to 2015 period.
These growth rates are on a constant currency basis and exclude any new acquisitions.<br><br>We also remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
And as we've first told you at our Investor Day last September based on our current expectations of the economic environment we expect that net revenue and EPS growth in the early part of this three-year period might be slightly below the 11% minimum threshold for net revenue growth and 20% for EPS growth.<br><br>In later years assuming the world would turn to a more stable environment we believe net revenue growth could be at the higher end of the range and that could also benefit EPS growth in that particular period.<br><br>Just one other comment that I would like to make about our EPS CAGR objective which we said was based on a normalized tax rate that excludes the impact of several one-time benefits that we were able to achieve in 2012.<br><br>Our 2012 normalized tax rate is 31.8% and that will result in a pro forma EPS of $21.44 which becomes the base on which you should be modeling EPS growth beyond 2012.<br><br>Now I would like to share with you a few specific thoughts about 2013.
Given the current economic backdrop that Ajay just discussed we expect net revenue growth in the first half of 2013 to be below the 10.7% currency adjusted rate that we saw in the second half of 2012.<br><br>Additionally the tough comparison to the very strong growth that we had in the first half of last year is a factor in our outlook.
Given our investments and initiatives such as mobile ecommerce and information services our total operating expenses will continue to grow likely just a bit below the 8% currency adjusted gross rate we saw in 2012 with more money being put to use in all of the expense line items.<br><br>Therefore we may be able to deliver some operating margin expansion in 2013.
The amount of any improvement will depend on both top line growth and investment opportunities that may surface during the year.
For modeling purposes you should assume a full year tax rate similar to our 2012 normalized tax rate of 31.8%.<br><br>With respect to foreign exchange assuming the euro continues to trade at the $1.35 level and the Brazilian real at the $2 level for the rest of the year we would expect about a 1 to 2 percentage point tailwind to as reported net revenue Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
And in order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
John? Operator its tough to say.
This has happened over the last two years a couple of times when if you go back through our earnings calls you will find there were quarters when Europeans tended to travel within Europe.
I think a lot depends on their feeling of confidence.
My sense is if you look at January most of the cross-border growth that we’ve talked about Martina was very careful to say it’s come from Asia-Pacific Middle East Africa and Latin America because this European issue hasn’t really completely changed in January.
So I don’t know yet but I’d say that its going to go through its ups and downs.
Its probably a fair question Inc.
when we started this whole EMV journey we have said many times over that it's possible that they won't meet their deadlines but we put these deadlines together -- together meaning through a consultative process that involve acquirers issuers merchants and us.
And that’s how we did it differently from some of the other forces out there.
And I think we therefore feel that we’re in it together we’re working with them.
We have recently announced that we’re willing to do an OpenAPI on our EMV so that the regional debit networks can also be allowed to be enabled to participate without having to build all their own technologies which may take a long time so we’re trying our very best to be flexible and thoughtful and take all the ecosystem players along.
But that’s how we’re planning for it.
I have no way of saying will October become December or will some of the trend move but I got to tell you our discussions are pretty productive and the announcement that OpenAPI was greeted with enthusiasm by a number of the players this is Martina.
I'm going to take your first question.
First of all as we had said a number of times there is absolutely no impact from what is happening from an interchange environment on what's happening on our fees.
As we have seen a number of times over the last few years many many times from time-to-time depending on how the European economy unfolds Europeans are staying closer to home.
And just by the effect in terms of how our cross-border fees are set up in Europe versus when Europeans are actually traveling overseas they are also spending in the same currency.
So we have that issue as well.
You don't make the money that you would make either the issuing banks or us on the FX.
There's a lot of reasons.
It's not the reason that you may otherwise think.
It's actually logical that you will get a lower yield because of the way those fees are set as well as the FX.<br><br>As far as Europeans being prone to passing regulations that's a politically great statement but you know better than I do that they love passing regulations.
It's just the reality.
So I don't know what to do about that as an answer other than to tell you that they will no doubt at some point of time do something because they have said that in the second quarter of this year they will likely publish some legislation on interchange.<br><br>What we have been doing with them is to take a thoughtful approach on legislating interchange and to make sure that they're still serious about continuing vigorous competition in the EU's payments market which by the way I think is a very competitive market.
Any interchange in regulations got to be carefully weighed against the now known consequences of reduced trades.
We've seen it in Australia.
We haven't seen the benefit of lower pricing in the U.S.
going to anybody certainly not at a gas station.<br><br>So in addition a level playing field between open four-party schemes and closed third-party schemes has got to be ensured if they want to be fair in the legislation.
So there's many aspects to this.
Will they pass legislation? Yes.
Will that dramatically change the industry? I don't know but we've been through these steps earlier and we're working with them in a constructive way to help inform them while they keep in touch with us.<br><br>So we're all in it together.
Ask the banks and the merchants in Europe.
I still think there's an enormous amount of opportunity in Europe just given the quantum of cash in those economies.
Germany is still 80% cash; just one number Germany itself.
You can forget before you get to the Italy's and Greece's of the world.
So yes they still happen.
It's one of the things we've got to deal with I wouldn't tell you Rod you know that.
But yes that is definitely part of the strategy.
Absolutely 100% part of the strategy.
SEPA and the payment systems directive allowed us to play that game as you know so we're in it.
It's just that you get portions.
In fact today we see domestic processing transactions in most of the European countries which we did not see just three four years ago.<br><br>So we're at different stages of opportunity in different countries.
It takes a little time and we're kind of growing along as we go and it's not about a bad way.
We're a 50-something percentage points up over the previous period on our European domestic processing number.
That's a good thing Sanjay.
I don't know how to answer that other than -- let me put it this way.
I don't know how close we are to the tide turning because that's why I'm uncertain about the U.S.
economic situation.
I genuinely believe that over a period of a couple of years the United States has the opportunity to surprise people on the upside just given how much restructuring in the economy has happened over the last two or three years compared to some of the economies overseas.
But the whole picture hasn't come together.
Yes some restructuring has happened but the regulations are still complicated.
We've got moving parts from the fiscal policies we've got consumer confidence down 11% in one quarter did surprised me.<br><br>So those are the kind of things that I don’t know where the U.S.
would go until all those forces align you can’t see the North Star being the revival of consumer credit if you know what I mean.
But there is stuff going on housing’s picking up sectors related to housing are picking up.<br><br>The other part of your question the part about our mix of customers; it’s kind of the business we’re in right.
So we get a lot of business from some customers who got more impacted in the downturn.
They’re still to come out of it you can look at their own results and you can make your conclusions on that.
But from what I feel what they’re doing they’re doing some very intelligent things as institutions to help revive their businesses.
So when they do revive yes absolutely I’ll also get an opportunity to ride their revival.
But I don’t know when that will be because I’m not party and privy to what they’re up to inside.
I just see what I see.
So you see as much as I do more or less on that one.
That’s the part I don’t know how to answer.<br><br>In the meantime what I’m trying to do is to diversify my customer base in the U.S.
and that’s what takes time but I have over the last year or two won a number of deals in the independent bank and credit union and regional bank spaces and those are helping.
They’re very very helpful we’re building new partnerships and new friendships along the way and we’re looking at the right co-brand portfolios whether it would be Bass Pro or the Shell and the Fuel Rewards Network Research Division</strong><br><br>Yes so U.S.
commercial credit continues to drive most of your U.S.
credit GDV growth both by AmEx and Visa quite frankly we all do a decent job.
In many ways I think our assets hadn’t completely been owned at the front end of our business to give us the results that we’re now beginning to get by realigning those assets.<br><br>In the meantime we put money into improving a number of our assets over and beyond what we had let’s say a couple of years back.
So we’ve got a new version of Smart Data out there which is one of the reasons we win these deals and that new version is actually even superior to what we had earlier.
So we feel relatively good in that space.
And vis-à-vis with the other competitors in the space if you travel outside of the U.S.
and you do not only go to certain countries where you can go to the five star hotels and the bigger restaurants I continue to make this point that it just takes a few people in that company to have an unfortunate experience where their card is not accepted or doesn’t work for that company to feel the need to empower their employees with the cards that work everywhere and that helps us win our deal.
We believe that the power of our acceptance is superior to that of others.<br><br>And so between different competitors have different advantages and disadvantages vis-à-vis us.
My sense is between Smart Data between the aspects of the acceptance and then all that we do with our small business rewards and all the activity in the commercial card space I continue to feel that we’ve got some runway for growth here for a little while.
Now I don’t know whether the numbers will be as high as they’ve been in the past year or two.
Who the heck knows that LLP</strong><br><br>Hi.
Thank you for taking my question.
Since it’s topical this week in this month James.
Not seeing anything new just happened in the 27th and so it’s been three days and I don’t know that anybody has done much in that space.
But remember first of all a number of states in the United States do not allow this even if the settlement provides for it.
So that’s kind of one thing that you’ve got to factor in and there are 10 states that don’t allow it but they also represent a larger percentage of the transactions just because of the nature of those states.
But beyond that all I know is what I've seen elsewhere.
And I'm kind of using that to inform my thinking.
Now every market's different and the United States is different but if you think about the U.K.
or Australia or other locations where surcharging has been going on for some years I've seen it start in some ways fizzle out in others continue in merchants where their competitive position allows them to do so online ticket sellers for airlines for example and so on.
It could well happen but it doesn't really go to a very large extent because of the obvious consumer dissatisfaction.
I mean that's the reason the rule was enacted in the first place.<br><br>So it's that idea.
But in the settlement it is allowed.
On the 27th they could go ahead.
I'm sure there are a number of them considering it and doing it.
Even before it started there were discounts being offered for cash vis-à-vis cards in a number of merchants in the U.S.
So I think the picture isn't as clear as some spreadsheet would give it out to be.
It is a little murky but that's how I think about it.
I think over six seven eight nine months depending where this whole litigation goes with the court and the opt outs and the like LLP</strong><br><br>Thank you Bryan let me take both of them because we just had the question in terms of whether the move to chip and PIN is actually impacting our economics.
And Ajay had said no.
When we look really at other markets where we had introduced EMV over a number of years it really does not impact our economics.
Every market is obviously different but we really don't expect anything differently in the United States.<br><br>In terms of the net revenues moving potentially higher in the higher end of the range beyond 2013; yes it's exactly how we laid it out at the Investor Day conference back in September.
The one variation that we always have to deal with is really what's going on in the economy.
And as you know we are really relating that to our growth in Personal Consumption Expenditure and we do believe that in the early part of the range of the 2013 to '15 period that really the Personal Consumption Expenditure is a little lower than what we've seen in the last few years.
And hopefully as the world normalizes that will move up.<br><br>So it's only that one particular impact.
It's not the other drivers that drive our revenues which is basically the secular trend in terms of conversion from cash and check to electronic forms in payments Bryan think of it this way.
When we make targets for these years out we kind of look at all the factors obviously that change our revenue; one being the PC which Martina just explained.
We think the early part of these years may be tough but just given what the economic environment is I should think the first half of 2013 will actually be tougher than the second half let alone out into 2014 just given what's going on in the U.S.
and Europe.
But once we get past that we are doing a bunch of things strategically to grow more share in the 15% we're doing things to participate in the 85 all that's factored into the numbers we gave you.<br><br>The only variable that we see changing which is driving the guidance we are giving you is what we think about economic growth.
The others we are still plugging along.
We are putting our money into the strategy we're doing things to grow our business we're doing things in mobile we're doing things in prepaid in commercial in credit in debit in biometrics in financial inclusion.
That's not changed.
It's the response from the PCE that really Martina is referring to.<br><br>Second a little clarification you might think about is let me give you one of the many reasons why EMV technology implementation doesn't equal diminution of economics.
We can do many transactions that don't work on a single message format.
For example where the final amount of the transaction is not fixable at the time that the transaction is authorized which by the way are some of the most interesting transactions.
You leave a tip at a restaurant.
You got a $300 bill.
You're going to put 35 bucks hopefully or 50 bucks or 20 bucks depending on where you are in the world on the tip.
That entire transaction doesn’t go through in a single message.
That's a little different.
If you stay at a hotel.
You use a rental car.
Those are all different transactions to just the ones that go through very easily on single message.<br><br>So EMV what it really does it's a card authentication methodology.
It tells you when that card goes in there is a dynamic encryption on the chip it says that's a real card.
It's not one that's been counterfeited or compromised.
And so that's what it's about; and that's why I would encourage you to think about this a little differently from; oh my God that just means everything is going to hell in a handbasket due to chip-and-PIN.
We’ve had 20 years of experience of doing this in Europe and Asia and so we've got some history behind us when we're telling you this.
I hope that helps Research Division</strong><br><br>Now that helps.
I mean the confusion always is that the debit market has two different yields for signature and for PIN and that's what led to the Durbin Legislation.
So this is a self-fulfilling issue.
I actually think that debit per se being the money of the consumer has a different profile and being direct access from the bank has a different profile in terms of the risk profile for the merchant Research Division</strong><br><br>Okay.
Helpful I switched to the handset.
There's just been some reports out there about debit issuance is gaining momentum in some parts of Asia Pacific Mid-East and Africa segment.
So got it.
That’s a great question Glenn.
It's doing in different ways.
There are a number of countries around the world where there are local debit schemes but unlike the way Europe originally developed when those debit schemes were mandated to be the only ones and nobody else could compete.
In most of these countries there is actually competition between a local debit scheme either run by the government or run by the local banks and us and most of them not true for all but in most of them.
So what we are trying to do is to try and be sensible about all those opportunities and play there and so you know that we only see something like 50% of our process transactions around the world through all these reasons of the kind of schemes we're talking about.
But that number's been growing thanks to SEPA thanks to the work we've done in Brazil thanks to the work we're doing in a number of countries around the world but this is a continuously moving issue.
And most of the emerging market countries as they see the value of payments in electronifying their environment and country they're more and more headed down the path of saying let's make sure that we have some control of the payment environment.<br><br>So you've got to deal with them and play with them.
And a number of them they’re even trying to white label what we do to help them setup their payments network so that they’re embedded in where they are and it's not just us doing it it's others doing it too.
So all of that actually is great because what it's doing is it's driving the move from cash to electronic.
And I’d tell you the opportunity in places like Africa I mean this trip this week in Africa just reinforced everything.
And in December I was out in Myanmar and of course in the developed economies of Asia.
But you go to Myanmar and you see the opportunity it's not today maybe my successor will get a great deal of benefit over Myanmar but I’d tell you for the next 20 years you can see the opportunity if we do this systematically with technology I don't think the secular growth potential has yet all the work we're doing.
Think of the mass we're dealing again.
So we launched 5 million cards in Kenya that's interesting but there's like hundreds of millions of people in Africa.
When you do 10 million South African social security benefit cards that's interesting but there are 60 million people in South Africa alone.
So what happens is that you make dents in the system but as you make the dents over a period of time it accumulates.<br><br>It's also interesting that the emerging world and the developed world are kind of moving around in terms of their PCE growth.
So what's happening is with the emerging world growing faster and with their PCE growing faster but their level of electronification being lower when you weight the whole thing together the damn thing still looks like 85% cash and 15% electronic even though it isn't that way if you go by country.
There's a change happening in the emerging world that's pretty quick but the total number doesn't change.<br><br>So I don't know yet.
I think that's what we've got factored in in the guidance we've given you is what we see today in that secular growth.
It isn't dramatically different from the last two or three years.
What drives that is urbanization globalization travel middle class growth all the stuff that we all know about.
I haven't factored in huge increases from that in my revenue growth expectations.
If that changes as you know the rebates and incentives are all baked in what we said already about revenues right? And I really don't expect any different cadence in what you already had seen in the last year which was up by the way not too different from 2011.
From an A&amp;M spend point of view so I just want to draw you back.
We said total operating expenses of 2013 is expected to be just a bit below the 8% currency adjusted growth rate that we saw in 2012 and really what you should be taking this -- in all line items.
So G&amp;A that's great.
And Ajay of the 25 new initiatives that you mentioned in mobile on a global basis but actually what's also doing really well is the joint venture we had with Smart which uses a basic wallet that allows SMS-based money movement.
That's what Telefónica has that's what we're doing with a number of people; Tim.
We're doing it with Turkey with Toxel which actually is probably out there the longest and the most effective.
So it's a mixed bag there.
Julio there's both types going on.<br><br>And as I said I'm trying to put my best into multiple places in mobile because I think that this thing will develop in different ways whether it go NFC and Tap &amp; Go whether it go with the SMS what rolled the wallets out there.
That's why we're so keen to put our wallet as an open wallet rather than one where we own the consumer.
We want to be seen as the brand if you will at the bottom right-hand side of the card for a mobile payment.
So we're not trying to be the brand in any other part of the card.
And that's kind of what our whole perspective is in this mobile space.
So it's a mixed bag of those.
But maybe the next time we meet I think Ajay just thank you all for your questions and Julio I hope you don't mind my pulling your leg about your name but I couldn't forget that when you came on.
So let me leave you with a few closing thoughts.
We just ended a great 2012.
We built off the momentum we had in 2011.
2011 was an even stronger year in terms of financial performance as you know.<br><br>Now 2012 good performance is good despite the somewhat unpredictable economic circumstances and these choppy waters globally that we’ve just talked about and as you all know consumer spending and confidence were slower in the second half of 2012 in many parts of the world.
That environment continues as we enter 2013.
We are all very conscious of that we’re very watchful.
But we’re going to keep investing in the initiative that we see having the maximum potential for our future some of the things we just talked about between the call and the questions.
These are not things that Martina and I believe can be turned on and off like a tap.
So all in all we haven't changed our thinking from what we said to you at Investor Day last September.<br><br>We are confident about our 2013 to 2015 objectives.
We do expect performance in the early part of that period to be below the range.
We think growth will pick up as we go along.
As I said a little while back in answer to a question I continue to believe that the U.S.
economy has the potential to outperform over the three-year period and that will have a salutary effect on global economic conditions.<br><br>Meanwhile our task is simple relatively simple guide our ship through these waters stay focused on both growing share in the current electronic payments business as well as just keep investing in driving the conversion of cash through technology but also through public private partnerships around the world and that's what we’re trying to do.
So thank you for your participation.
Thank you for your support and thank you for being on the call.<br><br>Operator: Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may all disconnect at this time.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I’ll be your operator for today’s call.
(Operator Instructions) Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Gasper you may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for a discussion about our first quarter 2013 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
This morning’s earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at mastercard.com.
These documents have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one week through May 8.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today’s earnings release I need to remind everyone that today’s call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard’s future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filing.
With that I would now like to turn the call over to our CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
In the first quarter we reported net revenue growth of 8% or 9% after adjusting for currency.
And this combined with operating expense growth of 6% helped drive our EPS growth of 16% or 17% on an FX-adjusted basis.
This quarter’s performance was in line with our expectations which took into account last year’s strong first quarter as well as the mixed global economic environment both things that Martina and I have been talking about for a while.
So let’s start at the US Consumer spending started out the year rebounding from what was a weak holiday season at the end of last year but started to cool in February as consumers adjusted to higher payroll taxes to some inflation in food and gas prices as well as the effects of late season winter storms in March.
I think these factors contributed to consumer confidence levels fluctuating over the quarter.
Our first quarter spending pulse data mirrored these trends showing that US retail sales ex-auto grew by only 2.6% in the first quarter this year compared to 3.9% in the fourth quarter of last year and 7.4% in the first quarter of last year.
So you could see the declining trend in these US retail sales ex-auto.
Much of this deceleration is attributable to slower consumer spending but of course some of it is also the result of the leap year comparison as well as comparisons against a strong first quarter in 2012 when an early spring helped boost retail sales growth to that 7.4% number I just talked about.
Overall our US business reflected these mixed conditions.
First quarter process transactions and GDP growth were lower than what we saw in the fourth quarter of 2012.
And looking ahead recent positive news about the strengthening US housing market which as we’ve been talking about has been going on for a few quarters could be a good signal that the economy is turning but we’re going to watch and the second half of 2013 will be the test of that.
Europe.
The environment in Europe remains similar to what we saw last quarter.
Both the economic situation and our business there can best be described as a tale of two regions – developed versus emerging.
The Eurozone in the U.K.
developed.
So retail sales growth slowed despite improvements in consumer confidence and in business sentiment.
And MasterCard’s business in these markets reflected that slowing growth trend still growing but slower than the past.
We also experienced some slowdown in growth in the eastern European countries Poland and Russia but this company is more of a function of the denominator based on the expanding size of that market rather than a real decline in economic drivers.
MasterCard’s total Europe in volume growth was in the low teens a little bit lower than the last couple of quarters but still pretty good as the secular shift away from cash accompanied by a continuing growth in share helped overcome the headwinds from economic uncertainty.
In Asia indicators show that consumer confidence and business sentiment were on the rise in the majority of markets.
And as a result consumer spending and retail sales in some of the major markets are picking up.
Australia’s projecting economic acceleration but on the other hand views on the outlook for China’s economic growth are currently mixed.
As you know China would be impacted by any deterioration in the European economy.
Europe is one of the largest trading partners and that of course has potential implications for the broader Asian economy.
Having said all of that our business in Asia-Pacific remained at healthy levels similar to the past several quarters.
In Latin America growth projections from Brazil and Mexico indicated a slight improvement over 2012 lower levels of economic growth.
Consumer sentiment was mixed across the region with Brazil at its lowest levels in three years while Mexico is bouncing up against five-year highs.
Overall our business in Latin America saw transaction and volume growth in the mid teens similar to the past two quarters.
So looking ahead to the rest of the year of 2013 we’re still maintaining the same cautious outlook we’ve talked about for a while.
Europe’s economic picture remains mixed.
Uncertainty will likely continue there for the near future.
In the US the second quarter right now looks a little dodgy but there could be some upside going into the second half of 2013 as far as US economic growth is concerned.
Economic growth rates in Asia-Pacific and Latin America have softened a little than for the past couple of years.
From the ground there is still a great deal of energy.
So with all of that as a backdrop our focus remains clear.
We are still focusing on our strategy to displace cash to increase our share of electronic payments.
So before we move on to recent business highlights I know there have been some recent news reports about European regulatory matters so let me quickly give a few words about those.
Fist as for the investigation launched by the European Commission in early April based upon what the commissioners told us and stated publicly we do not believe that the investigation is about our network fees.
Rather we understand that it is about our inter-regional interchange fees that are paid by E.U.
merchants as well as our cross-border acquiring and point-of-sale acceptance rules including the Honor Roll cards rule.
The commission had already launched a similar investigation on Visa’s inter-regional interchange fees.
Second in terms of the commission’s plan to announce proposed legislation related to card payments within the E.U.
by summer we have no new insight to offer you either about the timing or the potential complements that proposal.
As you probably know the EC has publicly said that it plans to propose legislation during June.
So now let me move on to some of our recent business activities.
We are continuing to work on improving our US Consumer Credit business where we are winning new deals with more in the pipeline.
This effort will be a slow steady build from what I shared with you last quarter.
And this quarter to add to some of the wins we had from last quarter I’m pleased to report that Bank of America recently launched a new consumer credit card called Better Balance Rewards which provides consumers cash back for responsible payment practices.
This is the first Bank of America product other than our Core brand that is exclusive to us at MasterCard.
In Canada TD Bank a long-time customer of one of our competitors has now launched their very first TD-branded MasterCard product a credit card that offers cash-back rewards.
And we’re continuing momentum in the commercial space.
In the US we continue to work in corporate DNB with issuing partners so that Bank of America Citibank Capital One and HSBC have just signed both large and small deals across a number of industries.
The government of Canada is converting their travel expense program to MasterCard early next year.
The win builds on our current partnership with Bank of Montreal for the Canadian government for MasterCard program that started years ago in 2004.
In Latin America there are a couple of examples from Colombia in the micro business commercial space.
Ban Colombia chose us to help them develop a micro business credit card program which includes things like credit risk modeling.
We also won Bank Kalmias micro business debit card program which includes a flexible insurance package customized for that market segment.
We launched a number of new travel eCommerce and management programs around the world which will continue to aim to enhance the cross-border component of our business.
So I’ll give you a few examples.
In Australia Qantas will upgrades its Frequent Flyer program cards to enable prepaid functionality.
This feature will be available to all its nine million Australia-based members.
In addition to the existing functions this Qantas cash card will now allow members to transfer money withdraw cash and foreign currency from locals as well as earn Frequent Flyer points from purchases made at MasterCard-accepting locations.
And in March we signed an MoU with Alibaba Group Asia’s largest eCommerce company to establish an enhanced eCommerce environment that we think will benefit consumers and small businesses both within and outside of China.
This MoU has many potential opportunities including making the MasterPass wallet available to Ali’s 800 million users providing the ability to offer virtual card numbers for online payments giving Alibaba’s six million merchants the ability to acquire MasterPass payments and providing Alibaba with fraud and risk management tools.
Rakuten Japan’s largest eCommerce shopping site and the second largest online retailer in Asia launched a service which will provide the Japanese Rakuten credit card owners access to virtual MasterCard prepaid cards that can be used to shop online safely and securely.
A new prepaid program for Chinese tourists traveling to the US is being launched this spring for a company called Oriental Tours a China-based travel company.
MasterCard prepaid cards can be loaded in advance with US dollars through Western Union outlets in China and then picked up from the tour company when you get here to the US.
This program will be available to an estimated 600 000 Chinese tourists annually.
And we’ve got a number of affluent launches around the world.
I’ll give you a few.
In Canada CIBC launched two world lead programs one travel one cash back.
In France Credit Mutuel is converting their title and portfolio to World Elite.
In Mexico Banka Marcel launched World Elite as their new top-tier consumer credit product.
In addition Citibank launched their Citi Prestige program in Hong Kong Malaysia Mexico Singapore and the US.
And most interestingly in South Africa Net Bank one of the four largest banks in the country and a long-time key income customer of one of our competitors is now converting the bulk of their entire business to MasterCard.
Net Bank will also be issuing our platinum and gold cards for the first time.
When this thing is fully implemented we will become the market leaders in South Africa.
On the mobile front we continue with our efforts to develop partnerships in mobile network operators around the world.
We now have relationships with over 30 with a combined reach of 1.3 billion people in 28 countries.
So a few examples of some of these recent mobile deployments.
We’ve launched MasterPass in Australia and Canada and the US.
In the US alone currently 100 merchants are now able to accept MasterPass.
We are partnering with banks around the world West Bank and Government Bank in Australia Bank of Montreal in Canada Citi Trip Card and several credit unions in the US and the launch of MasterPass in the U.K.
is on track.
We’re aiming for the end of summer and we hope to be available in at least nine other countries by the end of this year meaning a total of 13 by the end of 2013.
MasterCard and VimpelCom a telecommunications provider with over 200 million subscribers in 18 countries around the world recently announced a strategic partnership.
We expect the first deployment end of 2013.
Wind Italy a VimpelCom division and Italy’s third largest mobile operator will now enable subscribers to pick up a prepaid card at one of Wind’s retail stores link it to the mobile phone and then use apps on the phone to top off the prepaid card pay bills purchase additional air time.
And building on our partnership with Telefonica in Latin America we now launched two more initiatives with Telefonica this past quarter this time both in Europe.
The first is the Mobile PayPass program in the Czech Republic; the second is an O2 branded wallet in Germany.
And finally one of the largest banks in Indonesia Bank Negara Indonesia launched a mobile payments program that also leverages our in Control platform.
For the first time this bank’s nine million debit MasterCard cardholders can shop online thanks to virtual card numbers which we’ll give them on demand through their mobile banking applications.
So with that let me turn the call over to Martina for a detailed outlook on our financial results and our operational metrics.
Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of our slide deck where you see them as reported as well as the FX-adjusted growth rates.
All of my comments pertain to the FX-adjusted figures which as you can see this quarter are almost the same as the as-reported numbers.
As Ajay said we are pleased with our performance this quarter given the tough comps we were up against from the first quarter of last year and the relatively sharp economic environment.
Net revenue growth of 9% combined with operating expense growth of 6% supported our net income growth of 13%.
EPS growth of 17% also benefited from our share repurchase program.
Cash flow from operations was $872 million and we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of about $5 billion.
During the first quarter we repurchased about 1.5 million shares at a cost of approximately $766 million.
Through April 25 we repurchased a little more than 340 000 shares at a cost of $182 million and now we have about $1.7 billion remaining under the current authorization.
We will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
So let’s turn to Page 4 where you can see the operational metrics for the first quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 12% on a local currency basis.
US GDV grew 4% with credit volumes growing 2%.
US commercial credit growth was in the low teens and slowed somewhat from last quarter as we have left a couple of deals.
US consumer credit growth remains slightly negative similar to last quarter.
Our US debit growth slowed to 6% as we have now fully lapped our signature debit wins in a large seasonal program expected to decline versus last year.
Outside of the US volume growth was 16% on a local currency basis and this continues to be driven by APMEA with more than 20% growth and a solid double-digit growth in Europe and in Latin America.
Graforda volume grew 16% on a local currency basis including more than 20% in Latin America and APMEA and growth in the high teens in Europe.
So let me turn to Page 5.
On here you see process transactions grew just over 12%.
As expected this deceleration from the fourth quarter was mainly driven by the lapping of our processing wins from new PIN debit transactions in the US and the effect of leap year.
After considering the start of the lapping off the US PIN debit wins as well as normalizing for the effect of the leap year our underlying growth rate was about 11%.
And globally the number of cards grew 8% to 1.9 billion MasterCard and Maestro branded cards.
Let’s turn to Page 6 for some insights on a couple of our revenue line items.
Again I will be talking only about the FX-adjusted figures.
Domestic assessments grew 8% while worldwide GDV grew 12%.
The gap between these two growth rates is 4 PPT which is driven primarily by the contribution of higher growth outside the US with lower than average revenue yields.
Cross-border fees grew 14% while cross-border volumes grew 16%.
Similar to last quarter the primary reason for this difference was a higher mix of inter-Europe activity which comes with a lower revenue yield.
Transaction processing fees grew 9% driven mainly by the 12% growth in process transactions I just spoke about.
The gap between these two growth rates can be attributed mainly to US PIN debit transactions that come at a lower-than-average revenue yield.
So I’m moving to look at the components of total operating expenses on Page 7.
The increase in G&amp;A expense was primarily driven by the impact of higher compensation cost as a result of the increase in a number of employees compared to the same time last year to support our growth initiative.
And the slight increase in advertising and marketing expense was mainly due to the impact of new and renewed sponsorship.
Turning to Slide 8 let me discuss what we have seen for the second quarter through April 28.
Globally our cross-border volumes grew about 15% slightly lower than what we saw in the first quarter.
This is primarily driven by slower growth in Europe and Latin America.
In the US our processed volume grew 6% up from our first quarter growth due to improvements in both debit and prepaid.
Our US credit growth remains about the same as what we saw in the first quarter.
Process volume growth outside the US grew about 14% equal to what we saw in the first quarter.
In particular our European process volume growth was in the low teens similar to what we saw in the first quarter.
And globally our process transaction growth was 8%.
That’s down from 12% that we saw in the first quarter driven by the full lapping of our US PIN debit wins and merchant routing decisions that began last April.
We expect our transaction growth for the entire second quarter to be closer to our normalized growth rate of 10% to 11% as the impact of these merchant routing decisions from April 2012 settle out.
Looking forward let me start with our long-term performance objective.
We continue to remain confident that our business can deliver an 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR and at least 20% EPS CAGR over the 2013 to 2015 period.
These growth rates are on a constant currency basis and exclude any new acquisitions.
We also remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
And as we said several times in the past based on our current view of the economic environment we expect that net revenue and EPS growth in the early part of this three-year period might be slightly below the 11% minimum for net revenue growth and 20% EPS growth.
In later years assuming the world returns to a more stable environment we believe net revenue growth could be at the higher end of the range.
And that could also benefit EPS growth in that particular period.
I just want to reiterate one other comment about our EPS CAGR objective which we said was based on a normalized tax rate that excludes the impact of several one-time benefits that we were able to achieve in 2012.
So our 2012 normalized tax rate of 31.8% would have resulted in a pro forma EPS of $21.44 which becomes the base on which you should be modeling EPS growth beyond 2012.
I think most people are clear on this point but I wanted to mention it again for those who might be newer to the MasterCard story.
Now I would like to share with you a few specific thoughts about 2013 which really haven’t changed from what we have said on our year-end call back – our year call back in late January.
We expect that – I’m sorry let me start again on this one.
We expect net revenue growth in the first half of 2013 to be below the 10.7% currency adjusted rate that we saw in the second half of 2012.
We expect the second half of 2013 to be slightly better than the first half given our current view on the economic environment.
Given the complicated economic environment we continue to spend on the right things to support our growth initiative such as mobile e-commerce and information services but are keeping a close eye on other more discretionary expenses.
As a result we expect total 2013 operating expenses to grow a bit below the 8% currency adjusted growth rate we saw in 2012.
We expect to be able to deliver some operating margin expansion in 2013.
The amount of an improvement will depend on both top line growth and investment opportunities that may surface during the year.
And for modeling purposes you should continue to assume a tax rate of roughly 31.8% for the remaining quarters of 2013.
With respect to FX while it proved to be a slight head wind for us in Q1 we expect a tailwind of at most one percentage point to as recorded net revenue net income and EPS growth for full year 2013.
And this obviously is assumes that the euro continues to trade at the 131 level and the Brazilian real at the 198 level for the rest of the year.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Martina.
We’re now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
And in order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Craig Maurer of CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Wanted to ask on rebates and incentives.
They were materially higher in the quarter than what I was expecting both absolute and as a percentage of gross.
As we look through the year was there a timing issue that inflated first quarter? And what should we expect that pattern to look like through the rest of the year? Let me take this.
First of all I have to tell you that actually rebates and incentives came in spot on on our expectation.
When I look at the consensus out there the consensus seems to be actually really spot on with what we expected.
As you know there are durations from time to time and from quarter to quarter really depend on when we sign new deals and renewed deals.
In fact for this quarter we had actually the lapping of a new deal.
And we actually got a little benefit from that and that was the reverse in the year ago quarter.
So I’m not sure how to guide you other than to say what people have out there is pretty much spot on with what we expect.
Okay.
If I could just follow up.
The Alibaba announcement you were talking about MasterPass wallet possibly getting into – well it was a very big number.
I think you said 800 million users which I know is just the market size.
But what’s the economic value of getting those wallets out there? Craig it’s actually – I’m not making money out of a fee from the wallet.
That’s the big difference in our program.
I don’t want to charge consumers for the privilege of having the wallet.
There could be 150 000 wallets out there before we know what’s going on.
I don’t want to be the one charging fees on it.
I want to make money from it when they use their wallet.
So if they use their card or they use services that the wallet will provide that’s how we make our money.
So I’m not doing it based on how many users pick up the wallet.
It’s really – to me what Alibaba is is a partnership that expands the distribution footprint of MasterPass wallets across the 6 million merchants Alibaba has.
And as the ability to make it available to as many as 800 million users.
They are adding 300 000 users every month.
There’s a whole new number there.
But I don’t know how many of them will adopt it.
We’ll see.
But the merchant for 6 million that will be a big distribution footprint expansion.
In addition they’re going to use virtual card numbers for the merchants to buy goods across border as well as within China which has been a big problem for them to be able to do thus far on e-commerce.
So I believe that’s going to help them honestly with the facility issue of that purchase.
And then of course we’re going to work with Alibaba and so in helping them with fraud security and the like.
So it’s got three components to it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Chris Brendler of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask a question on the US debit business.
Do you think at this point we should start to see the more normal debit rates continue? And also pressure on the yield relation to PIN debit press played its way through here? And I have a follow-up as well.
Think thanks.
Yeah Chris on the US debit business I think about the numbers and what I said about April you’re starting to see everything going more to normalized rates and to the market growth.
Right? I mean we think from a volume the US debit volume point of view the market growth will be around the 6% to 8% for the foreseeable future.
That is kind of what we are trending to.
And something very similar you’re actually seeing from a transaction processing point of view.
And you have one more quarter to round out and then you should really see us coming back to market.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And my follow-up is a more a strategic question.
We are hearing a lot of noise on mostly complaints about the US EMV initiative.
Is there anything you can sort of say to give issuers and merchants a little more of an incentive.
Why is this going to benefit them? I think a lot of merchants in particular don’t see much benefit from moving to EMV.
It sounds like some merchants are actually in the liability shift is not much of an incentive.
Can you just give me color there? Thanks.
I think you’re mixing up a couple things.
Let me just help a little bit put into context.
The liability shift is right now being discussed mostly with the ATM operators.
That’s where the conversation is different from merchants.
The objective of that was people who had EMV cards from other parts of the world when they came to the US which was the mag stripe environment the level of fraud was much higher.
Fraud still will move to where the security and protection is the weakest in the chain.
EMV is clearly the higher security protocol than mag stripe.
All we’re trying to do is ensure that card consumers who were traveling from other parts of the world when they come to the US do not have experiences that make them feel that their cards are not safe.
A number of the operators and banks are actually quite comprehending of that.
A number of them are spending the effort and energy to get some of their ATMs upgraded.
In others what we’re try to do is to roll out a tool or fraud risk manager which allows the ATM operator and the insurer and the acquirer at the other end of the game to look at the risks involved in an EMV card coming to a mag stripe ATM and that helps them to manage that risk.
My expectation is not just to make clear that people are like a fountain switch on April 19 when tens of thousands of ATMs switch.
I never expected that.
What I expect is that a roadmap that shows that in most places that tourists travel with the frequency of utilization of ATM will be maximum but they will get the right experience with an EMV enabled card.
My expectation over a period of time most ATMs in the US will switch.
I think it will take some time.
Because it will be the right thing to do for all the right reasons.
And I think it’s connected a lot of the launch of EMV issued cards as well in the US eventually.
There will be a timeframe all come together.
Starting with ATMs.
It will move to the issuance of cards which may take two to three years to play out in its full form and I understand that.
But all we are trying to do here is protect consumers who travel as well as ensure that banks overseas do not get unnecessary thought experiences because this market has the lowest ability to provide security protection based on mag stripe versus EMV.
That’s what we’re trying to do.
Thank you.
I think we’ve had a very productive dialogue with a number of merchants and banks and ATM providers.
And all big changes like this – this is a very big change.
In all big changes like this you will have people pulling in different directions.
Our job is to try and make them get the incentive to go and feel the importance of going to the right level of security protocol.
That’s all we’re trying to do.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Jason Kupferberg from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
So I just wanted to try and get a read on the overall tone and message that you guys want us to be picking up on here.
I mean obviously your guidance is unchanged which I think is what people had expected but should we be reading any kind of nuance difference in your overall tone just in terms of thoughts on the macro and the general outlook for the business? I mean it sounds pretty consistent with the past couple of quarters but just wanted to verify that you’re still feeling essentially exactly the same about the macro picture and its impact on your business now as you were a quarter or two ago.
Is that accurate or should we be feeling a little better or a little bit worse? Accurate.
Just absolutely accurate.
Everything we said was what we said second half we’d probably be a little better than the first half.
That’s kind of coming to where we part where we are right on where we expected in the first quarter.
I continue to believe that the second quarter the US economic growth will be somewhat less than what people might be hoping for.
I think that there’s a lot of mixed sort of targets in the US between payroll taxes and all the moving parts there.
Oh the housing looks like it’s better but if you look at spending pulse and if you look within spending pulse it’s really interesting why earlier categories of everything that had to do with housing was going positive for the previous four quarters.
In the first quarter out of the two categories to do with housing one went slightly negative one remained positive.
That’s the first time in five quarters I saw that.
But I expected some of that given that I think the first half will move in and out a little.
So no change in how I feel about where the economy is in the US in Asia in Latin America and in Europe.
No change at all.
Okay.
Thanks for clarifying.
And just can you give us a couple comments on your reaction to the Chase-Visa deal? Is that something you guys might be interested in pursuing similarly with other issuers? And just how you feel philosophically about giving one of your issuers the ability to negotiate interchange directly with a merchant? Well we haven’t done it.
So philosophically you can figure out where my philosophical stance is.
The fact is that we’re going to see how this thing goes in the marketplace.
It’s very early days.
A lot depends on how issuers and acquirers respond as well as how merchants respond a bit like Durbin.
I don’t believe I have the need or the pressure to do anything differently other than look at it strategically.
We have the ability to offer a similar thing.
It’s a white label capability existed for a long time.
We could do it.
I just haven’t put on the tap.
And so it is where it is today.
And that’s what I am.
Philosophically I am unchanged from where I was before the Chase-Visa deal got announced.
Next question.
Our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
So I had a question marking on the domestic assessment revenue line.
When I look at that revenue line over GDV it came down that the yield came down quite dramatically year-over-year.
And I was just wondering if it was all the mix shift that you talked about and kind of how we should think about it going forward.
Should we expect that decline year-over-year to kind of sustain itself as we move through the quarters? Thanks.
Yeah so Sanjay that is a very good question.
And really a couple of things going on.
One is what I said is when you look at the mix of the growth of the business in the United States it comes at higher revenue yields versus the growth outside of the United States which does come at times with lower revenue yields especially in some of the emerging markets.
That’s really contributing to that kind of differential.
Now you have to understand domestic assessments are only one set of fees that we are actually charging in the market.
You really have to think about at very comprehensively and then those countries that we actually processing we obviously also get the benefit of the processing fee.
So that’s one explanation.
The other explanation is in terms of what’s happening from a cash utilization.
So especially when you go in new emerging markets and people are getting their cards they predominantly start to go to the ATM first until we are getting them used to actually going directly to POS.
And the ATM fees that we typically get are lower than what you’re getting at the POS.
So those are kind of the broad changes.
So in terms of going forward I do believe – it depends on the mix.
It depends on how the US grows versus how other markets are growing.
But our current view has that this kind of difference in terms of growth of the domestic assessment fees versus the volume will persist for the rest of the year.
Okay.
Maybe just one quick follow-up for Ajay.
I was wondering strategically kind of how you felt if Visa Europe were to exercise its put as kind of talked about in the market place and kind of what implications does it have on your business? Thanks.
So I don’t know what the latest news is.
They were supposed to be deciding.
It’s been a couple of days.
I guess they’re still thinking about it.
I don’t know.
Maybe you guys know and have talked to Visa today.
My perspective is whether they go one way or the other.
I think we’ve got be as a company capable of handling both.
Let me put it for you this way if they exercise the put option they’re going have to go through two or three things.
One is integrating technology people systems cultures.
From our own experience of doing that with MasterCard Europe and before that with Europe pay the European – we are working that technology that association culture merging that with a different culture.
It’s a reasonably preoccupying time.
The second part is that we need to innovate you need focus you need time you need attention you need management energy.
If we’re going to divert it to integrations it makes it a little more difficult.
So I think that in the short to medium term; the reason we have to do all those things they are the right things to do by the way if you’re integrating something but it would provide us with our own space and opportunity along with the fact that a number of the Visa-issuing banks who may be waiting for the put option to be able to get some benefit one time they may well be in play after that once they’ve booked that relatively large benefit.
On the other hand if they don’t do it the last carrier is the way it is today and we think we’re doing pretty well in Europe and growing market share and growing our business at the cost of cash and the cost of our competitors.
So life will continue in that form.
I kind of think about our company as responding with focus in our strategy.
Either which way.
Just keep plugging away at what they’re doing in Europe.
We’re doing well.
We want to keep doing well.
Next question.
Our next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
David are you there? David if you phone’s on mute please un-mute it.
It’s not on mute.
Can you hear me now? We can hear you.
Hey David.
We can hear you.
Oops.
Operator why don’t we go to the next call? We’ll try to get David back after that one.
Our next question comes from Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Ajay I was hoping to follow-up on a comment that you made about payroll taxes.
I was wondering if there were any noteworthy observations relating to the impact of payroll tax increases on the spending behavior among your customers in the US particularly if you stratify the customers by income segment? And then also could you talk about the potential for a near term upside to numbers to your earnings from the stage digital wallet operator fees that are scheduled to kick into effect later in the year? So two things.
The stage digital wallet operator fee comes in later.
But it’s a relative minimum number for a company of our size and scope.
So in fact a lot of the noise that is made around how that fee was put in and why it was put in focus on the economic impact to us and the wallet operators.
I think that is completely the wrong noise.
It is more about the principals of creating the right rules and the right operating methodology to allow us to operate with stage digital wallet operators.
In any case that number is in the plan and its minimum so who cares that’s one number.
The real issue here is the first question which is about payroll taxes.
I don’t have a way just as nobody else has for connecting payroll taxes directly to spending impact by segment or type.
But I can watch different kinds of retail stores where people who are more likely to be impacted by small movements in their take home pay shopping and I could see that they were impacted by the payroll taxes.
They didn’t get impacted in the first time around.
It’s almost like they didn’t register how much the impact would be.
By the time February came around boy they felt it.
To give you an example spending pulse x auto January retail sales x auto were actually pretty good.
They were back to good.
Meaning in this environment three-something percent.
You come to February 0.8%.
So it’s shows that that came right in their face.
Whether it was only payroll taxes whether that was other issues as well.
I have no individual way of segregating those impacts but I’m kind of putting them all together and then putting together anecdotal evidence from different types of stores and different types of merchants and retailers whom I’m in contact with and giving that back to you.
Thank you.
We’ll now go back to David.
David your line is open.
David are you there? Okay.
David your line is open.
I guess we’re having problems.
Okay.
Go.
Is that better? Yeah yeah.
Sorry about that.
We have a new phone system.
I’m sorry.
I don’t know how to use it.
Anyway I was wondering if you could update your thoughts on the Chinese market and what your reaction to China UnionPay coming here to issue prepay cards? In the past you said you think it could be many years before they open the market.
Has that changed? No.
I don’t know many many years is what I said.
What I said was that China UnionPay has expansion plans around the world.
They have been trying to expand for a number of years.
They mostly try and first start doing acceptance deals so that the Chinese users can get to use a China UnionPay card as when they travel as compared to the co-branded card with them is where our strongest partnership is and we’re kind of the ones that have been doing all the deals with them for the last two or three years.
If that picks up momentum it impacts the growth rate of our cross border business out of China.
But I haven’t seen great differences there yet.
I’ve seen acceptance grow and improve but China is growing at such a great rate on its expansion that I think that increment gets hidden in the wash.
As far as their issuing prepaid cards as far as the United States is concerned what they’re doing is issuing a prepaid card at bank call which has to be then distributed to other US banks because Bancorp doesn’t really have a rush network and other US banks have to agree to distribute to bank official prepaid travel cards to those people who want to buy it from here before they go to China.
I don’t know.
We’ll see.
We’ll see how that goes.
But at the end of the day there’s a large business opportunity in prepaid.
I don’t think this changes anything very much.
I think China UnionPay will keep attempting to grow its self-standing business as I would in their shoes while trying to keep working the partnership with us which is what we’re doing.
In the meantime the judgment has happened.
China has sent that judgment.
I’m expecting in a few months that we will get clarity on the meaning of that acceptance.
When we get clarity on that we’ll figure out how to work our partnership with CUP.
I met them in China last month.
I met them in New York a couple days ago.
We have got a great partnership and I’m still very happy with what we’re doing with them.
Thanks.
Can I ask one follow up? Since you waited that long go for it.
Thanks.
Can you give us any thoughts about prospects for some benefits in US credit business from the emergence of the American Airlines bankruptcy and from GM starting to do better? You have a GM co-brand relationship? Yeah yeah American Airlines is already a co-brand.
Yep.
And a large part of it is with us.
GM is also there.
I don’t think people in the case of GM anyway I don’t think they spend more on that card base on how GM is doing.
In the case of American Airlines it’s without a doubt that a certain amount of American Advantage cards then goes towards the travel on the American Airlines flights without a doubt.
But it’s only a certain amount.
And I think that this utilization of these cards has a little less to do with the parent company’s performance as compared to how the consumer who holds that card is feeling about their spending pattern and the like.
That’s a bigger impact.
And so the bigger issue remains about the US consumer and their spending pattern across segments.
And that one I’m still not convinced that the second quarter will be much better than the first quarter.
I think I use the word dodgy but that’s just a technical term to indicate that I’m not sure that US economic growth in the second quarter will be much better than the first.
I do believe however that the second half of the year will be better.
We’ve got a number of wins that we’re doing but the US credit business our predominant business is with a first set of issuers who themselves are working their way through with what has been a very complicated year for them and a few years for them.
I am reliant on them in many ways but I’m trying to build to comprehend wins and other wins.
You know last quarter we told you about KeyBanc.
We told you about the Intercontinental Hotel Group.
We talked about Vaspro.
We talked about a bunch of those right the Shell rewards card and the fuel rewards network and this quarter we talked about Bank of America.
We’ve got a bunch of things brewing on the promotion credit side but this is not something that is changed overnight unless a big flip happens which I have no way to be sure.
So that’s the nature of our business.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks just following up on the question about the domestic assessments revenue.
If you look at what you said about the first quarter and then the month of April it seems like that mix shift is kind of continuing if kind of US volumes accelerated but credit was kind of flat with the first quarter.
I guess I mean is that a fair way to think about it that that is – that that’s what’s actually going on that that further shift into debit if credit is kind of flat? And again that would seem to be somewhat of a weakening because obviously the leap year effect doesn’t hurt you through the second quarter.
Moshe on domestic assessment what the big issue was is between what the growth that we’re seeing in US versus the growth that we’re seeing actually outside of the United States.
And that mix effect both from a POS point of view as well as how people are using their cards at ATM especially emerging markets I did say that we will continue to see that going for the rest of the year.
You will see that differential from a growth perspective between the fees and the volume for the rest of the year.
Just one thing I want to make sure I indicated on.
You said something about the leap year affect impacting us in the second quarter of the year.
No Actually...
Right.
No.
What I said Ajay was that you said that the US credit was kind of flat with the performance in the first quarter.
Right.
Yes.
That the first quarter was impacted by that so the second quarter would be somewhat weaker correct? No.
What we – no.
What we actually said is that our process volume fees the US process volume fees in the second quarter is actually higher at 6% and we said it’s mostly driven by debit and prepaid.
And we did say that credit the credit growth is very similar to what we saw in the first quarter.
We said process volume not process volume fee.
Yes.
Process volume.
Yeah.
That’s correct.
And I also continue to believe that the second quarter in the US will be less than fairly predictable on CCE and consumer spending.
That’s kind of what I’m trying to tell you.
I’m actually not believing that you should read any more into it than that.
Okay.
I guess I would have thought that some of the stuff in terms of tax refunds and the like would have provided a little bit of a tailwind into Q2.
Until you could see that a little bit of volume increase is happening in Q2.
Prepaid and debit have picked up already by April 28 and then Martina is trying to indicate that she thinks it’ll settle to a certain number over the course of the quarter.
It’s in credit that we at least have not yet seen a pickup in the second quarter versus the first quarter.
That’s what our numbers currently are telling us.
Our next question comes from Rod Bourgeois from Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Hey.
So you mentioned that you’re philosophically against licensing the MasterCard network to a bank.
I didn’t say that Rod.
I just said I haven’t changed my opinion from where I was earlier.
Which is that we are where we are.
We do not have that license today.
I’m watching what’s going on with Visa and Chase.
If merchants’ issuers and acquirers respond in a way that would put me in a situation where I may need to do something which is thoughtful I will.
But I’m reluctant to just jump to a conclusion that I’m against before anything until I watch what they do.
I don’t feel the pressure driving against before right now.
Right.
I mean my guess is that Visa would have said six months ago that it’s philosophically against licensing its network but it sort of needed to do that in order to maintain a relationship with Chase.
And I guess I’m wondering if a bank maybe call it HSBC just as an example if it were to ask MasterCard to do a Chase/Visa net type of deal even though you’re philosophically not excited about that is it something that you would look at doing because that may be a trend at certain banks that have a big presence in issuing and acquiring? It could be a new trend that comes down the road.
Is that something that you’re looking at? So many many things there.
One is – I look at anything.
If clients talk to me I’ll think about it.
I don’t know what I’d conclude because it would depend on what it does for our brand and our company as well as for that client and for the other clients whom I have relationships with.
It’s going to be a very complex Rubik’s Cube to think our way through.
So I don’t know the answer to that yet.
The second thing is I don’t know exactly what’s inside the Visa-Chase deal.
I may not do it exactly like them.
If I do something it may be done differently.
So this is all speculation.
I have no clue.
I know this that just like in Durbin I will watch this very carefully and if I feel the need to make some moves to be able to ensure that the banks will partner with me on my brand don’t suffer in the marketplace I will.
But I’m not going to jump to a conclusion right now that I need to do something either similar or a little different or nuanced differently.
I don’t know yet.
I just don’t.
Our next question comes from Bryan Keane from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
I just wanted to follow up on that Chase UC deal.
Obviously there’s been a lot of questions on it.
I guess there’s been some speculation that you’ll lose some Chase card volume in that deal.
I just wanted to see if that’s correct.
And then I know Chris McWilton questioned the economics of the deal so I just want to get your thoughts on allowing Chase to do all those transactions.
Do you think that model makes sense? Well we have a certain amount of business with Chase.
As you know Chase was a predominantly Visa bank even earlier.
But we have a good relationship with them.
We still got business with them.
In fact the recent Intercontinental Hotel co-brand that I talked about with you last quarter is actually with Chase which was signed and done towards the announcement of this deal.
So I don’t know.
My approach is to keep building that relationship with them between businesses on prepaid cards.
We’re doing businesses on commercial cards.
We’re doing business with them on co-brands and we have some non-co-brand but simple credit card kind of products with them.
My sense is that what they’ve done with Visa is to allow them to certainly protect the business they have with them.
I think they’re still open to doing some business with us and we’re pursuing that relationship.
So I don’t know where that will go.
I have no idea.
And then just did the model make sense to you on how they probably would be paid? And then just the one follow-up is the acquiring.
You’re waiting for what the acquirers might do.
I just want to make sure I understand what you mean by that.
Well everything depends on how acquirers issuers and merchants respond to all these deals.
It’s like in Durbin.
All three players had different responses to the way Durbin played out.
I’m just making sure I’m keeping an eye on all the three players and how they respond.
Does the model make economic sense? I have no idea.
You go and ask Visa because I don’t know what’s inside.
Our next question comes from Moshe Katri from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thanks.
Thanks for take my question.
Did Martina mention something in the context of losing some credit portfolios during the quarter and if so can you kind of elaborate on that? Losing credit portfolios? No.
That’s not what I said but I think I might recall what you are referring to.
So this was when Greg was asking about rebates and incentives and the level of that.
And one of my comments is that we actually had the lapping of a new deal.
So you might know that whenever we sign a deal we might have an impact on our rebates and incentive line and that can happen in any particular quarter and we had some impact in the first quarter of 2012 and that is basically lapping.
And it actually was in the fourth quarter of 2011 and that is now lapping in the first quarter of 2013.
But the deal is light.
It’s just the way that the accounting works.
Okay.
Great.
Just as a follow-up can you talk a bit about what you’re doing in credit in terms of trying to gain share in the market? Maybe talk about what you’re seeing in the US market versus overseas.
Overseas is the same business.
They’re out there winning deals.
A number of the things I talked to you about MedBank as an example in South Africa.
It’s both credit and debit and commercial credit and so on.
It’s in the US that we’ve got a situation which we’ve talked about which is our consumer credit share is not where we like it to be.
So it’s not something that will change in a hurry unless some very big portfolio switches over for which I have no ability to decide yes or no.
That depends on how you negotiate it.
Typically large portfolio flips are relatively long selling cycles.
What I am focused on however is all the business comes around that.
So co-brands which is what I was telling you about.
In the last quarter I gave you a number of examples.
Other opportunities with new launches.
I’ve given you the example of Bank of America this quarter and a ton of things on the commercial credit space where we’re doing things with Citibank Bank of America and with others in a number of industries.
That’s what we’ve been up to.
I think our consumer credit share business will not change in a hurry.
It will change over a period of time.
But we’ve got all the right building blocks and we are out there using both our ability to bring in control priceless cities and a number of other assets advisors to play while also looking at our ability to bring volume to the co-brand partner.
So those are the kind of things we’re up to.
Next question please.
Next question comes from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
I wanted to ask you a philosophical question as we’ve been doing a lot of philosophizing today on this white label stuff.
I mean do you believe philosophically that banks are actually trying to give away interchange or not? And then I guess when you think about the value of the network itself is the value of the network under duress and possibly going into some other areas meaning that you need to be in more advertising areas loyalty other things that I guess would be additional sources of potential revenue for your model? Second question first – I think you’re onto a good topic which is that going forward people like us also building revenue streams from other places other than just the traditional clearing authorization and settlement function that in some ways has been certain proportion of our revenue.
I think you’ve heard me talk openly about diversifying our business from the day I joined.
The reason is that I believe what we have in the network is the asset of connecting billions of consumers with millions of merchants with tens of thousands of banks in 200 countries with all the local legal regs built in.
That’s a great asset.
What we need to do is to able to leverage that asset in many ways.
One of the reasons why I’m investing in loyalty and rewards why I’m investing in things I can control why we’ve got into prepaid program management why we are doing those things and the investment putting into data and information services and the advisors business is all about making sure that we build our company not just based on converting cash but also imbedding ourselves better with merchants with issuers with acquirers with governments and consumers to these value added services that you can bring by using what you do well which is the network and the data warehouse.
And the processing.
And that’s what I’ve been doing from the beginning.
And so nothing’s changed in that way.
I’m sort of focused on that still and that’s where the investments are going as well.
Yes we’re investing in credit and in debit and in prepaid and commercial.
But we are also investing in new channels like mobile and e-commerce and we’re also investing in the diversification.
That’s the growth of a diversified strategy that I’ve been laying out for MasterCard for a while.
Right.
Okay.
Maybe just one quick for Martina on the margins.
Thinking about the tradeoffs between revenue growth and the ability to continue to defend EPS.
Anything in particular that you would sort of highlight as continued drivers to sort of defend the EPS on margin side you would have left for the rest of the year here? I think as we have said that it really depends on where the revenue growth comes in for the rest of the year and what we might be doing from an investment point of view where the margin is going to come out for the year.
But at this point in time the visibility that we have we do believe that there will be a small margin expansion.
But just to remind everybody we have really a number of levers in terms of EPS growth.
One is what’s happening on the revenue and on the expense side.
Two is what’s happening on our tax rate.
Everybody knows that we’re working at that.
And three was we’re doing from a share repurchase point of view.
So we are looking at all levels to be making sure that we are reducing our financials.
Operator I think we’ve got one for one last question.
Our last question comes Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Please go ahead.
I was hoping Ajay you could maybe give a feel for the emerging market story over.
Do you still think you’re going to be able to grow internationally in a mid to mid upper teens especially in emerging markets over the next several years? And just a minor point if you could.
We’ve had some crazy weather in the US I think they’re getting seven inches of snow in Minneapolis today or something and Denver’s getting but have you seen an effect from some of the unusual weather in the US on your business? So March clearly was a month that got impacted by the unusual weather in terms of spending.
So that I think does happen periodically.
I tend not to give it more credence because eventually it kind of evens out over time.
So I tend to worry about it in the context of a month but not in the context of a longer period of time.
I look at the basic franchise and what it’s doing as the real context I think in.
I think the emerging markets question I still believe that there’s enormous opportunity to grow our kind of business in the emerging markets.
You take the South Africa story.
We were a smaller market share player there three years ago but through consistent wins and now the latest one at Merit bank when you finish implementing that bank we’re in a market where there’s still a great deal of cash.
And yet the economy is clearly the most powerful economy in Africa then I feel that we would end up being a market leader there.
That’s a pretty big opportunity.
Because not only would we have the market leader in terms of cards issued.
We can keep focusing on the secular change of cash through electronic as well.
Hence the focus on the social security payments in South Africa where now 10 million card owners have come out where there were none earlier their social security payments are now going into their card.
Now as Martina said a number of them take that card and go to an ATM or a cash point and take out cash.
That creates a lower revenue yield than going to the point-of-sale.
The next step in all these cases is to find a way to encourage them to go to the point-of-sale rather than taking out cash.
So all these things aren’t the emerging markets are a step-by-step building process.
You’ve got to build assurance.
You’ve got to build the habit of using a card.
You’ve got to build acceptance and you’ve got to build government support and all of that together.
So we are systemically going about it in a number of countries.
And I just gave you the South Africa example because it’s a live example from this quarter and I was there in January when I signed the bank deal which we now publicly announced.
And so I feel still that the emerging markets are still a great opportunity to where this company is going and South Africa is just one example.
China being another.
India being a third.
Parts of Southeast Asia.
Parts of Southeast Asia Latin America.
There’s a lot going on.
There’s all the emerging markets in Eastern Europe where we’re making really good headway.
I think it’s not just in the payments business but to Julio’s earlier question it’s also in diversifying our revenues through alternative ways whether it be data and analytics or advisors or in control or different value added services that imbed us better in that marketplace and I’m trying to do all those things as we are growing our future over the next few years.
Thank you.
Ajay you want to offer some closing comments? Thank you for all your questions and I want to leave you with a few closing thoughts.
We’re going to continue to work through some of these challenging economic conditions that we’ve been talking about for a while.
I think we’re off to a good start in 2013.
With this last quarter’s performance in the past quarter was absolutely in line with how we thought we would end up.
The slower growth in consumer spending and confidence in the second half 2012 has continued into 2013.
We also saw the expansion of electronic forms of payment around the world.
So we’re going to keep a careful eye on expenses.
We’re going to keep investing in those initiatives that will set up our company for future growth for that diversification as well as that I just talked about.
We remain confident in our three-year performance objectives through 2015.
As we said last quarter we expect performance in the early part of that period will probably be slightly below the range with growth picking up as the global economy returns to a more stable environment.
There are signs that that stability will come.
All in all our focus is clear grow our share and drive the conversion of cash through technology through partnerships around the world while continually developing products and services that imbed us with banks with merchants with governments and consumers.
So thank you for your participation.
Thank you for your support.
I appreciate it.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MasterCard’s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I’ll be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Gasper you may begin.
Thank you Glenn.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for a discussion about our second quarter 2013 financial results.
With me on the call this morning are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
This morning’s earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website mastercard.com.
Both the earnings release and the slide deck include reconciliations of any non-GAAP measures to their GAAP equivalents.
All of these documents have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one week through August 7.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today’s earnings release I need to remind everyone that today’s call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard’s future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filing.
With that I will now turn the call over to our CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay?  Good morning everybody.
We are very pleased to report EPS growth of 23% for the second quarter.
Our net revenue growth of 15% operating expenses grew 5% and we continued to execute on our global strategy and navigate through what we all know is a somewhat uncertain economic environment.
So let’s take a look first of the U.S.
consumer spending was up last quarter.
Retail sales growth was better than expected.
Housing indicators continued to show signs of recovery.
Our spending pulse data for the second quarter showed a growth in U.S.
retail sales ex-auto was 4% that is over the same quarter of the prior year and that is up from 2.6% as the same number for the first quarter.
So contributing to the growth was a steady improvement in consumer confidence and some stabilization in the employment levels in the country.
Our own U.S.
business reflected these improving trends with 6% volume growth up from last quarter’s 4% growth.
Moving on to Europe the environment is somewhat similar to what we saw.
Over the last several quarters there are a few upbeat notes there.
Economic trends were similar for the UK and for parts of Continental Europe.
During the second quarter consumer confidence increased there.
Business sentiment was a little weak in the second quarter there.
Although recent PMI studies indicate that business sentiment now may also be turning up.
In spite of those mixed economic signals we are still seeing opportunities to expand our business and take advantage of that secular shift from cash through electronic and that shows up in our solid second quarter volume growth of 14% in Europe.
In the Asia consumer spending in the second quarter was on the rise.
In the majority of markets consumer confidence levels are doing well across the regions with key markets like Korea and Japan being marked improvements.
Business sentiment across the region is mixed and that's kind of due to the lingering concerns about the effects of the sluggish Chinese and European markets may have on the broader Asian export dependent economy.
Our business in the region however continues to do well.
We had volume growth of 21% in Asia.
Latin America consumer confidence in both Brazil and Mexico is somewhat challenged for all the reasons you read about and expectation for GPD growth in Mexico have recently been lowered.
But we are still growing our volume in Latin America at almost 17% but clearly we are watching the wider economic trend there very carefully.
So before we go over to some recent business highlights I thought I'd spend a minute on the legal and regulatory front and particularly with regard to the U.S.
Merchant litigation the merchant opt-out period ended in late May and as most of you already know about 8000 merchants decided to opt-out of the cash settlement.
The represents just marginally over 25% of the total purchase volume over the settlement's time frame.
The defendants as a group have the right to terminate the settlement agreement because the volume threshold of 25% was exceeded but elected not to do so.
We expect most of the larger merchants who opted-out will file separate actions to recover damages and many of them have already started to do so.
The final approval hearing is scheduled to begin on September the 12th.
We remain confident that the settlement will be approved.
We are also pleased that the Canadian Competition Tribunal recently upheld our no surcharge Honour-All-Cards and No-Discrimination rules in Canada.
And in Europe I know that Javier and Noah were on a call with most of you last Thursday to discuss the EC's proposed legislation.
So I'm going to spend less time on that but I do want to offer a couple of thoughts that I have in my mind on the topic.
We partner with governments around the world in many areas related to electronic payments but there will be times when the interest of some of our stake holders require us to raise concerns of our proposed action this is one of those times.
We support the European Commission’s gold of a secure efficient competitive innovative European payments industry.
We believe that they have made a good start towards recognizing the importance of a level playing field.
It also appears that there is actually potential to further open up and get competition in place for domestic processing.
However we remain concerned that some of the proposed legislation could have unintended consequences of hindering competition and innovation and we remain concerned that it could be harmful to consumers and small merchants in Europe.
And so in the upcoming debate as this legislation the proposed legislation winds its way through the process we are going to engage all participants in the process.
We will try and ensure the best possible outcome in the best possible way.
Finally I want to reiterate Javier’s confidence that our model our business model will adapt as necessary to allow us to compete effectively and continue to provide innovative payment products and services that our customers want to offer consumers want to use merchants want to accept and that's where we are focused on.
So moving from there on to some recent business activity.
You will get a chance to see a lot of things that are invested in September.
So I’m going to focus our progress here around a few key themes and keep in short.
During the quarter we continued to sign new agreements supporting the expansion of our credit and debit business that's the first theme including the following examples.
In Europe Danske Bank the largest bank in Denmark will be issuing MasterCard consumer debit credit and commercial cards in 10 countries.
And together with what we did with Fred (ph) Bank Nordea as our wins (ph) there we expect to grow our total market share by 50% in the Nordic and Baltic region over the next five years.
In Korea we have two new debit card wins to help lock in our debit market leadership position.
First is the (inaudible) Card the recent spin-off of the card division of one of Korea's largest retail banks and they are now issuing platinum debit cards with us.
We also recently signed an agreement with Hana SK that will further increase our dominant share of their debit portfolio.
In the U.S.
we continued to aggressively pursue all opportunities in the consumer credit and co-brand space as they arise.
We’re pretty confident and are showing regular progress as and when they come up and we can announce them.
Moving to cross-border which as you know is an important part of our business that's the second theme.
Let me give you a flavor of some of our new travel and affluent (ph) programs around the world.
In the UK our access prepaid business recently launched four new multi-currency cash passport programs all of which are available online.
One example is British Airways launching their Executive Club Cash Passport card which is capable of having up to seven currencies loaded on the card.
South Africa (inaudible) bank in South Africa launched the country’s first re-loadable prepaid travel multi-currency card.
This allows for four currencies to be loaded on to the card.
And one of the largest financial institutions in the Middle East the Riyad Bank in Saudi Arabia just launched a gold-plated World Elite card for their private banking client and these benefits include everything from unlimited lounge access at our cross-border rewards program and the like.
So the third theme leading the transition to digital payments we are focused on creating better shopping experiences for the consumer more value for the merchant.
And then I will give you a couple of examples.
First MasterPass Digital Wallet that rollout has now expanded to four countries.
Canada launched the past quarter.
The UK is launching as you read in the media as we speak.
With the addition of web.com that’s a provider of internet services for small businesses in the U.S.
and Canada this wallet is now accepted at more than 20 000 merchants globally.
In Singapore with the addition of SingTel’s recent launch of their mCASH program all three telcos in Singapore SingTel StarHub and M1 now have wallets MasterCard as the only open loop payment card option.
Last theme IPS or issuer processing platform for debit ATM and prepaid.
As you know IPS enables our consumers and our customers rather to decrease their reliance on their legacy systems increase their ability to drive innovation get to market quicker reduces some of that cost of complying with some of the increasingly complex regulatory requirements.
In the U.S.
e-bank (inaudible) and USAA all recently completed conversions for IPS.
Wells Fargo is completing a conversion later this year for a commercial prepaid offering.
IPS also part of the access prepaid which is our prepaid program manager to support global travel programs such as the Qantas multi-currency card which I have talked about last quarter.
So just to give you a headline on this in the last couple of years we have increased our IPS customer base from 5 to 16.
We are now in 23 countries and 17 languages.
We can scale and we will scale and we will expand the platform.
So now let me turn the call over to Martina for a detailed update on our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina?  Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on page three of our slide deck where you can see this quarter the as reported as well as the FX adjusted growth rate by essentially the same.
As Ajay said we are very pleased with our performance this quarter given the continued slow growth economic environment.
Net revenue growth of 15% combines with operating expense growth of 5% supported our net income growth of 19%.
And EPS growth of 23% also benefited from our share repurchase programs.
Cash flow from operations was $742 million and we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of about $5.1 billion.
During the quarter we repurchased almost 1.1 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of approximately $580 million.
Through July 25 we repurchased almost 300 000 shares at a cost of $174 million and we now have $1.1 billion remaining under the current Board authorization.
You will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
So let me turn to page four and here you can see the operational metrics for the second quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 13% on a local currency basis to just over $1 trillion.
U.S.
GDV grew 6% with credit volumes growing 3%.
And U.S.
commercial credit growth was in the low teens similar to last quarter.
U.S.
consumer credit growth was slightly positive also an improvement from last quarter.
Our U.S.
debit growth was 9% driven by higher growth across all of our consumer and commercial debit as well as prepaid programs.
And outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 17% on a local currency basis.
This continues to be driven by APMEA with more than 20% growth and solid 14% and 17% growth in Europe and LAC respectively.
First quarter volume grew 17% on a local currency basis including more than 20% in LAC and APMEA and growth in the high-teens in Europe.
So turning to page five process transactions grew over 11% globally.
In the U.S.
Retail growth of 5% which was lower than last quarter as we anniversary our pin debit processing wins.
As you know we are managing pin debit transactions to optimize our revenue and our transaction level has remained about the same over the past several quarters.
Outside the U.S.
process transactions grew 20%.
We saw increased growth in all regions but particular strength in Brazil Russia Australia Netherlands and South Africa.
Globally the number of cards grew 8% to 1.9 billion MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards.
Let me now turn to page six with some insights on our revenue.
Within our net revenue growth of 15% gross revenue grew 12% in-line with volume and transaction drivers as well as some pricing.
Rebates and incentives only increased by 2%.
As you know the rebates and incentive line can move around on a quarter-to-quarter basis depending on the timing of deals.
Specifically in the second quarter we had two factors that contributed to this relatively low growth rate.
First some contracts were not yet signed by quarter close and second we had some lumpiness due to the performance of a few contracts.
Overall these factors represented about 2.5 percentage points of our total 15% net revenue growth.
Similar to the prior quarter growth in domestic assessment was again driven by strong growth outside of the U.S.
which comes at a lower yield.
And the gap between the growth in first quarter volume and revenue continued to be due a higher mix of intra-Europe activity excluding the impact of pricing.
So let's look at the components of total operating expenses which you see on page seven.
The increase in G&amp;A expense was primarily driven by the impacts of higher compensation costs as a result of the increase in the number of employees compared to the same last year to the same time last year to support our growth initiatives.
The slight increase in advertising and marketing expense was mainly due to the impact of new and renewed sponsorships.
Turning to slide eight let's discuss what we have seen for the third quarter through July 28.
Globally our cross-border volume grew about 15% so that's just slightly below of what we saw in the second quarter.
And this was primarily driven by slower growth outside the U.S.
due to the timing of Ramadan.
In the U.S.
our processed volume grew 9% up from our second quarter growth due to improvements in both credit and debit.
Process volume growth outside of the U.S.
grew 16% that's about equal to what we saw in the second quarter.
And in particular our European process volume growth was in the mid-teens very similar to what we saw in the second quarter.
Globally process transaction growth was 14% to up from the 11% that we saw in the second quarter driven by higher growth in the U.S.
for both credit and debit.
Looking forward let me start with our long term performance objectives which have not changed.
We remain confident that our business can deliver an 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR and at least 20% EPS CAGR over the 2013 to 2015 period and these growth rates are on a constant currency basis and they exclude any new acquisitions.
We also remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
However assuming that the economic environment remains similar to where it is today we now expect that net revenue and EPS growth in the early part of this three year period will likely be at the low-end of our stated ranges for net revenue growth and EPS growth and that is slightly better than we previously anticipated.
Now I would like to share with you a few specific thoughts about 2013.
So given our stronger than expected second quarter net revenue growth and what we see for rebates and incentives for the balance of the year we now believe that second half net revenue growth will be similar to what we saw in the first half.
We continued to anticipate total 2013 operating expenses to grow a bit below the 8% currency adjusted growth rate that we saw in 2012 as we continued to spend on the right things to support our growth initiatives while keeping an eye on more discretionary spending.
We also continue to foresee some operating margin expansion in 2013.
The amount of any improvement as you know will depend on both top line growth and the investment opportunities that may surface during the year.
And for your modeling purposes we now think that you could see a full year tax rate of about 31%.
With respect to FX if rates remain the same as they are today so that is the euro continues to trade at the 133 level and the Brazilian real at the 226 level for the rest of the year.
The impact of the euro and the real will essentially offset each other for full year 2013.
So now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara?  Thanks Martina.
We are now ready to begin the Q&amp;A period.
In order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
Operator?   Thank you.
We'll now being the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Craig Maurer from CLSA.
You may go ahead.
Yes good morning.
I wanted to ask a follow-up to the European discussion in terms of EU assessment revenue what percentage of that is earned on a per volume – on a volume basis versus a card licensing basis as it would seem that there might be some rules preventing you from assessing on transactions where your scheme was not used to process even though your brand was present?  Hey Craig it’s Martina.
I think I will take that question.
So first of all what I presume that you are actually asking about Article A8 on co-batching and the EC proposed legislation right.
So no look we obviously know the number when you just strictly look at volume based assessment fees that we earned in Europe on domestic transactions that we do not process.
And by the way it’s not material to our overall MasterCard numbers.
But I am a little bit reluctant to put out this number here at this point in time and really for a couple of reasons.
One this is one of the sections of the proposal where the language is actually unclear.
And second there are number of puts and takes in the entire legislation which makes it clearly difficult for us at this point to estimate what part of this revenue figure might actually be subject to this potential provision.
It all is basically wrapped out in terms for us being difficult to understand the intent of this co-batching provision.
So imagine when an issuer elect to put our brand on a card they must have a reason for doing so presumably because their consumer recognizes and values our brand and therefore uses his or her card with the MasterCard brand on it.
That brings value to our stakeholders in the system.
Of course we are not going to provide our brand for free.
And we don’t believe that that could be the intention of the EC.
On the other hand there are also some other provisions in the proposal which could as you know allow for more competition in domestic processing which we would certainly welcome.
So why don't we get more clarification from the EC we think that we still have quite a bit of work to do given our hands around the provision and how that could impact us if at all.
Our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
You may go ahead.
Thank you.
I guess I had a question about the rebates and incentives volume.
It looks like there was some kind of restatement as well; it was about $21 million or so for last year's number.
I was wondering if Martina you can just talk about that a little bit.
And then just as far as your the assumption going forward on rebate should we expect that those levels remain fairly low consistent with the second quarter? Thanks.
Sanjay so let me take the first one which is really a reclassification.
So we had some of our advisor services both reflected in the growth revenue line and in the contra (ph) line all we did is we collapse them in the growth revenue line.
So from a net revenue point of view there is absolutely no difference and all we did is the reclass the number to 2012 so that as the accounting change came in on January of 2013 you were looking at apples-to-apples okay? So that's on the reclass.
In terms of the rebates and incentives what you saw in Q2 was really a much lower growth rate on a rebates and incentives than we would normally see.
All right and I said there are two factors.
One is we didn't get to sign all of the contracts that we thought we would sign by the end of the quarter and those contracts will be showing up either in the third quarter or in the fourth quarter so you cannot assume this level of rebates and incentives going forward.
It will go back to our what you normally see the lumpiness; this is a little bit more lumpy of course in the second quarter than we normally have.
And then secondly I think I did explain that we had a couple of performances on the number of contracts where we paid out lower incentives than otherwise anticipated.
So do not take this increase in rebates and incentives for Q2 and apply it for the rest of the year you really need to go back to my comments where I said that net revenues for the second half of the year will probably come in similar to what we saw in the first half of the year and that's baked in our assumptions in rebates and incentives.
Our next question comes from Jason Kupferberg from Jefferies.
You may go ahead.
Thanks guys so just wanted to ask on the revenue side of things.
It looked like both the purchase volume yields on domestic assessment as well as the revenue per process transaction or I should say the TP revs (ph) or process transaction were both down year-over-year I think on the purchase volume yields and the domestic assessments it was the lowest we have seen in a while and on the transaction processing revs for process transaction it was down year-over-year in Q2 I think almost as much as in Q1 despite the Durbin routing dynamics anniversary and can you just comment on those metrics if there were anomalies in those numbers or how we might think about them for the second half?  Yeah Jason first of all this trend we have now for a number of quarters.
First of all let's talk about the domestic assessment right? What we have we have particular growth coming in terms of jurisdictions outside of the United States often enough we have to obviously compete with what's going on from a domestic pricing point of view.
So where we have the growth they do come at a lower yield that’s number one.
Number two; you also see when you look at our statistics that we put out that we have a relatively larger growth on cash transactions in those jurisdictions versus the U.S.
transactions and those two impact the yields too.
So by the way this is nothing different as we are going to grow in those kinds of jurisdictions and really expand our business outside of the United States even more you will see these trends continuing.
From a transaction point of view I think I said something as part of the transaction volume that we're seeing we saw particular growth in Brazil in Russia in actually Poland Netherlands some Australia and those actually do drive also that differential between what you see on transaction growth versus what you see from a transaction yield point of view.
Again nothing different than what we had before.
Just think about all the what will add to that first part of the question.
Think about things like we are doing in Nigeria and South Africa with social security payments what tends to happen is the consumer who gets an electronic card for the first time tends to in beginning go even more for cash than the average consumer in our portfolio.
So if we keep doing this well and we keep trying to intervene in the cash flow between governments and consumers which is a large part of where the cash comes from you will first find them growing the cash then all the efforts taken around what we call the five-step program to take people from using cash at an ATM to eventually going more and more to delivering at a point of sales and that five step program takes certain number of years and a certain set of events to happen.
So we are going to speed this build and develop.
I mean that’s an important part of the nature of what we are trying to provide.
Alright.
So it’s the mix shift during the transition.
Okay thanks.
Yes absolutely.
And you know Jason starting the transition that will happen in a year or two this thing as you can imagine with 85% of the world’s transaction in cash so the whole game to be played out here.
So you are going to get this mix of cash and POS and then in some countries the POS picks up and others cash remains strong and it takes certain time for that mix to go the right way.
Okay understood.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
You may go ahead.
Great thanks.
I guess as we sort of kind of discussed on previous calls U.S.
credit you had said was slightly positive and slightly better than the first quarter but obviously the first quarter was a weak quarter because of the comparison.
And it seems like it kind of accelerated somewhat less even then kind of what you had cited as overall retail spending and as your debit spending.
We have seen a little bit of success in what you have done with Bank of America on the credit side.
Anything else that you can kind of point to in terms of strategies and tactics and can you also give us an update on the American Airlines contract?  So no update on American Airlines because it ain't anywhere what I can tell you anything about it and if I knew anything you can appreciate I wouldn’t tell you and recall like this.
So that one won’t happen.
We are in negotiations with them as is everybody else.
So there is a lot going on there but we are all in negotiation.
The first part nothing has changed we know that U.S.
consumer credit is what we have to work on.
We have got a series of things that we’ve been doing over the last period of time to try and improve the trajectory of our U.S.
consumer credit spend growth.
Some of it is caused by deals we are winning whether it be all the things we have announced over time we have talked to with Bank of America doing things with us.
So there is a series of other deals from Maestro and Intercontinental Hotel Group through other banks like KeyBank and stuff we have done with Huntington and SunTrust and all that that’s going on.
For all those things they have certain time to begin accumulating in the book just as lawsuit take a certain time to reflect in the book as you know in the past.
So we are kind of working of ways to it.
There is number of opportunities around co-branding.
There is number of opportunities around things like we are doing with Bank of America where it’s not a wholesale cliff but it’s the opportunity to work together in specific areas as we are working with.
Some of those deals couldn’t get announced because they weren’t signed.
Some of those got signed.
And so that’s one of the lumpiness in our numbers in Q2.
So stuffs going on and we will have ups and downs as we go along but we have got a pretty clear pathway through working on both co-brand and the effort to win business with banks that are currently higher market share with other competitors.
That’s the work.
The third aspect is that the nature of our book and its performance depends a little bit on the nature of our customers' book and their performance.
And as the banking industry more and more of the banking industry comes back to a normal deal on the credit book as the economy improves.
I think these are the net beneficiary of that as well.
I don’t think that showed up adequately as yet in our book.
So we’ve got to get these three things going on.
Great thanks so much.
Our next question comes from Darrin Peller from Barclays.
You may go ahead.
Thank guys.
You beat across number of matters clearly in the quarter including incentives and also your cross-border yield came pretty strong.
When you are seeing that raised expectations obviously versus the low end of – or to the low end of your range versus obviously the early years being below that previously.
Can you just give us a sense specifically which metrics are coming in now better than you initially anticipated at the beginning of the year to drive that? And then maybe more specifically on cross-border second part of the question the volume growth of 17% versus revenues of 20% how much of that is actually pricing versus mix just because we want to especially since we have seen volume growth exceeding revenue growth over the lot several quarters? Thanks a lot.
So Darren on the metrics first of all what we are seeing is that from a domestic volume point of view we see improvements in a number of regions versus what we have seen before.
To see what's going on in the U.S even though we would still think this is a pretty slow growth environment it is feeling a little bit better than earlier this year and certainly than late last year.
Look at all of the price that is coming out of Europe it's starting to feel better.
In fact all of our European countries grew except for Spain Spain there is a little bit of an issue but if you read the recent articles it seems like that even that country starts to feel a little bit better going forward.
So I think we’re just seeing a little bit of more robust that's coming in than what we assumed before.
In terms of your question on the cross-border volume versus the revenue side what you really have to contrast is our cross-border volumes grew 17%.
And you saw that our revenues grew 19%.
Really what we have in there is we have this quarter the U.S.
Acquirer Support fee coming in that's the first quarter that is coming in it will be with us for another three quarters that reflects about 8 percentage points of that 19%.
So if you take that out if you compare 11% revenue growth to the 17% volume and that difference that 6 percentage points difference is exactly what we have before in all of our prior quarters in terms of what's happening from the intra-Europe mix on cross-border versus inter-Europe mix.
Remember intra-Europe mix comes at a lower yield than inter and so that's again nothing new continuing trend and that's what we're seeing.
So the only thing I'd add to that Darrin is that remember I have been saying for a while that I expected the second half in the U.S.
to be better than the first half.
I have said that now for three quarters and I still believe that.
The difference is the second quarter came in better in U.S.
spending than we thought it would when we first made that statement.
So what's happening is a little bit of that improvement that we thought we get in the U.S in the second half feels like its come a couple of months before what we had already factored in for our thinking when we spoke to you about our estimates of how this year would go some time back.
So that a little extra is what you're seeing us show up in the second quarter results one other thing that's driving it.
There is a lot of others there is cross-border there is stuff in other countries and all that but the U.S.
is at the end of the day 40% of our revenue give or take and so that number still drives a change in what we think.
And that's kind of an important part of the context.
Our next question comes from Smittipon Srethapramote from Morgan Stanley.
You may go ahead.
I was wondering if you can give us an update on what you expect to see happen in China our understanding was that the government over there was supposed to respond to the WTO by actually today?  Yeah so I think the way they are looking at it; my sense is that they are supposed to clarify certain things but their actual policy I think they believe they still have a month or two to respond in.
So we’re kind of waiting for that to come out there periodically talking to us as well as other players and clarifying that they have certain thoughts on how to open up.
But in in truth we don't have enough of a picture to be able to give you a better answer.
Just we're there talking to them all the time and they're working their way through their thoughts.
Meanwhile life carries on.
There is the normal issuance of co-brand cards going on and as I've been telling you we've been winning most of those deals we're still in that same position.
We've just got a couple of approvals for co-branded cards there we've issued those; work has started on those you have had the deal Alibaba that's kind of moving in the direction.
We wanted it to go we have had that whole report about one cross-border e-commerce kind of player who used to do clearing in Renminbi in Hong Kong which the PDOC itself was not quite within what they want to do going forward that one has held up.
But everything else is carrying on so China is going along where it is today but everybody is waiting for the new policy.
Operator next question please.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel.
You may go ahead.
Can you talk about I know we have hit this a lot on process transaction growth and transaction growth but the numbers in Europe particularly look really strong especially on a core basis accelerating sequentially is that macro or are you still seeing the benefit of deals like the Netherlands and Italy and are there new deals that you potentially are signing in Europe just the European transaction and core numbers look very strong.
And just one additional question if I could I just see a Bloomberg headline about a judge rejecting the debit fee regulations in the fed any color there would be helpful? Thanks.
So the Bloomberg headlines just talking to you so we don’t have access to Bloomberg so I have no idea what the one is about.
Noah do you know anything about it?  Don’t know about it.
I separate calculation.
The Europe one of the best way to answer is both.
You are getting some improvement in macro but we continue as we can tell you in our conversation we have continued to win deals and then share both with institutions in Europe but also remember we are continuing to get some transactions out of different places as the step of migration allows us to win some domestic processing across the country across the countries in Europe.
Martina?  Yes let me just add something to that Chris because actually mentioned the last Thursday’s conference call that we process well below 50% of the POS transactions done on our cards in the EEA.
And actually when we put all the numbers properly together and it's actually just below 40% and by the way if you include both POS and cash transactions we only process about 25% of the transactions done on our cards.
And so that’s why we are saying there is just absolutely plenty of opportunities for us to compete in domestic processing be standard over the last 4 or 5 years since I came in.
And hopefully with some of the changes in the regulation we might be able to do even more there.
Ajay can I just ask more quickly your thoughts on whether or not the regulation in Europe would slow the progress on MasterCard’s ability to gain processing share or somehow increase it or is it at the same?  So what Martina was saying just that would indicate that I don’t believe it’s going to slow it down and that’s kind of where we both are.
We have kind of as you can imagine we have had a fair series of discussions in the company around this.
The fact is that until everything becomes really clear until it goes through the next it could take a year it could take two years for this to become really implemented.
So I don’t know how to answer that any better because that just to be the European legislative process will work.
In the meantime they are carrying on building domestic processing business because there is so much space for us to win.
We were a very small portion of domestic processing till a few years ago.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Glenn Fodor from Autonomous Research.
You may go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to dig into your financial goals just a little bit I mean you made it very clear you are aggressively focusing on energizing the U.S.
credit portfolio but that takes time investment and obviously intensive so can you just give us sense of how much improvement here such as new customer wins and such you have baked into these three-year financial goals?  Look Glenn you just have to go back to what we have put up at the last Investor Day.
This is just one chart which clearly shows you the three drivers of our growth right.
One is TCE growth right and we assume 4% to 5% per year on average over long-term.
The second one is the secular growth which is basically the conversion from cash to check to electronic forms of payment that's 4% to 6% per annum roughly over longer term.
And then in addition to that you saw over 2 3 4 percentage points on top of it in terms of strategic investments.
And strategic investments actually includes a number of things it includes things that we are doing in the digital space.
It includes things that we might be doing from a market share point of view.
Those are all of the things that we have baked in and that’s out there and we haven’t changed our view on that (inaudible).
Yes thanks Martina.
Our next question comes from Bryan Keane from Deutsche Bank.
You may go ahead.
Hi guys.
Most of my questions have been answered but just curious going back to the big news of last quarter around this Chase deal.
Has there been any new perspective you guys have gotten from other bank participants and how you guys are thinking about that relationship as you know with other potential banks MasterCard works with? That’s kind of question A.
And then question B still curious to know if you guys have any idea if Chase is going to move some volume off of MasterCard over to Visa as a result of this deal? Thanks.
Hey Bryan.
So why I wonder what the other questions were so the first one Visa Chase no nothing new there is actually the same series of conversations that are going on a number of the other banks and obviously are concerned about what this means longer term but everybody is kind of waiting and watching to see how this gets implemented.
And I know we're in those dialogues a number of them.
It does help to help open doors for us without a doubt but beyond that I have got no new perspective for you there.
Will Chase move volume over the Visa? I mean we've also got volume coming to us from Chase the Intercontinental Hotel Group co-brand is a Chase co-brand which we just won.
So will they move volume? I assume they would move some but I'm not sort of inside of Chase discussing this but as being a banker in my previous life I would still like to keep doors open with more than one network because it suits me when I'm a banker.
Does that mean that the shares will not change and the proportions will not change? I would assume that the proportions will move towards the one you have chosen to put more investment with.
And so I actually believe that to be the case.
I just don't know factually what they will do.
Our next question comes from Julio Quinteros from Goldman Sachs.
You may go ahead.
When we are in at the last Investor Day together you had mentioned that once you show us margin above 55% it can be hard to go backwards we’re running two quarters into the year at north of 58%.
The full year guidance suggests just something around 50% I mean what's the delta there for the rest of the year as you guys think about the margin profile and why should your margin step back here from the sort of 58% level or so?  I don't think it's going to go back to 50 we never said 50 is the guidance we just said a minimum of 50.
As I told you I did that when I came in because I found that at that time we were out testing we’re going to continuously increase our margin by a few 100 basis points every year and I didn't feel that was a strategic goal for the company compared to growing our franchise growing our revenue and converting cash.
I just thought that's a much better way of thinking for what the company is trying to do than trying to put a margin growth target but you already have a relatively attractive margin in the company.
Having said that our margins tend to be a little variable by quarter.
So the fact that it's about 50 years right now from what I recollect normally the fourth quarter has a relatively low margin and I think that's been the case for the three or four years now.
It's been the case for these three or four years that I have seen it.
So I think the annual margin tends to settle at a different number but it's really since the fourth quarter also is a relatively large quarter in many other ways.
So I don't know that you would assume that 58 is fixed I would tell you this we are very focused on not going in and throwing away money just because the margin is higher we would also focused as I said on taking away pricing as the only way to grow although as I have said many times we work on many lines of pricing every quarter and the results show up this quarter.
There is certain amount of pricing.
This pricing will give us some benefit for a couple of more quarters to come.
We think at it around pricing every quarter there are thousands of lines in 200 countries and that's a fair opportunity.
So will it be a high increase in pricing low increase in pricing? Remember this; I am not into pricing as the way to grow revenue.
I mean we’re trying to fight that 85%.
So we will do what we can at the right time with pricing and margin.
So I still stick around with that 50% minimum that's to reassure investors that we’re not going to throw the money away.
But I am not going to give you an estimate that it will go down or up just because we have quarterly variances and all we have to do is put some more money into a series of investments and we will take a couple of quarters where the margin will be lower than it is today.
It'll still be for the year about 50 that I promise you.
Our next question comes from Rod Bourgeois from Bernstein.
You may go ahead.
Yeah and so I guess on a related note on the margin front I mean it's encouraging to hear that macro is starting to improve some in certain parts of your business particularly in the U.S.
and maybe even some early signs in Europe does that at all change your view on margins going forward? In other words in years with the revenue growth is weak you seem to give some margin expansion to help with the earnings growth.
But as the macro continues to get better how does that affect the outlook on the margin front?  Hey Rod let me just jump in here.
First of all we you know we are not running the business based on a particular margin.
As Ajay just said we put a margin minimum in place to make absolutely ensure that our investors understand that we look at every investment that we do in the company critically and as we do it in such a way that we get returns from it.
That’s how we look investments.
And really how we run the company is looking at these investments making these investments every year every quarter as we see that and we think that based on our current business trajectory the way the business that we have today that we will be at a minimum 50% margin.
We do not run them as business for margin expansion per se.
That's across whether the economy is doing better or worse and that’s not what we are doing.
And so I wouldn’t assume any change based on the U.S.
economy looking better or not better nothing has changed in our strategy.
And just to clarify on that does that mean as we move into 2014 your view on margins is still sort of keeping margins around 50% range?  Absolutely Rod our annual operating margin minimum that we put out for three years is 50% and is the minimum that doesn’t mean that it couldn’t go higher because mostly because of revenue growth but it’s a combination of where the revenue growth comes in and the investments we decide to make in the company.
Understood.
And then on the pricing front you mentioned that pricing was somewhat of a benefit can you quantify was it sort of a 1% benefit and you are….
No Rod it was 4% in total on the revenue line.
4% in total.
And then that benefit does it taper off in the next couple of quarters?  No there are couple of pricing in there.
One I already mentioned which was the U.S.
hiring support fee we just started this quarter.
That’s going to be with us for the next three quarters and that was probably about half of the price changes.
And then we had a couple of other small ones.
One anniversary this quarter I would just say acquire our licensee fee which we have talked about.
And then there is a very small one which you know that we have been starting to put through which is pricing related to the digital wallet operators but we are talking about smaller numbers again going forward.
Operator next question please.
Our next question comes from Bill Carcache from Nomura Securities.
You may go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Ajay I was hoping you could give us a sense of whether in your conversations you see any indication of certain groups in the industry moving closer to thinking of debit as just being debit with the distinction between hidden signature just not being as important for example like in your discussions with issuers is given that their economics are identical for both now or do you see the distinction continuing to be drawn? And then I guess for the industry as a whole I guess ex-market share shifts do you have a sense for whether there has been any kind of a notable shift in the mix of signature versus pin transactions post of the Durbin regulation?  Both great questions Bill.
So the second one so what about industry as a whole has there has been a move from signature to pin actually not identifiably so has there been a move from debit to credit not identifiably so.
Do people talk about in the banking industry and in the merchants business? Do they talk about expecting changes? Yes but it’s been about a year now and it hasn’t really delivered great change.
And I think finally it’s not about the bank and the merchants it’s about the consumer and what they want to do.
I think the consumer is un-impacted by this dialogue in most ways other than seeing indirect impact caused by an increase in checking fees that have dropped in free checking accounts and so on.
They don’t in their minds necessarily connect one to the other.
And I think they are still behaving the way they choose to behave which to use their debit when they want and their credit when they want.
They have impacted more by overall trends in the economy.
So I think as the U.S.
economy continues to recover generate jobs and the like you will probably speak and increase in credit spending that may be faster than debit.
But that still is out fare to be seen.
That’s just past cycles I am talking about.
So I would say nothing much right now.
Okay that’s really helpful Ajay.
If I may one last follow-up here can you comment on the Isis announcement of international rollout and we have seen a number of reports suggesting that the rollout of NFC is just pretty unexciting but can you share your thoughts on the growth outlook for NFC as you see it over the course of next say 12 to 18 months? Thanks.
NFC to me has opportunities because it is a technology that is applicable not just to payments but also delivering things around security and things around loyalty and so on and so forth.
I think anything that goes beyond just payment to the whole shopping experience to the whole consumer experience; to the merchants experience is an important aspect in the upcoming transition that's going on between physical and digital right? That's how I think about it I don't think these are 12 and 18 months things built because just think of the ecosystem and the infrastructure that needs to be built for any of these to happen and so I tend to look on it as a longer term effort and I think that most people would say if you look at contactless payments in Australia as an example I was looking at the data the other day something like 25% or 30% of all transactions in Australia under Australian $100 comes out of contact that's a big number compared to where they used to be two years ago.
Now will it go even higher? Probably.
Will it take years to happen? Probably.
So some countries like Australia Canada and Turkey are further ahead in NFC than others.
But it's kind of we run our business in so many countries it is a mixed bag and it's tough to generalize across all of them.
But in general I think NFC has got opportunity I am not sure that I can tell it you in 12 or 18 months.
Our next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
You may go ahead.
I wonder could you give us an update on your joint venture with Telefonica in Latin America and sort of what's happening there and what you've learned so far?  Sure.
So we've got two different JVs with them.
We've got the one that's in 12 countries excluding Brazil what we call Wanda.
And then we've got Zoom which is in Brazil that's because of the way Telefonica was constructed when these JVs were signed.
So in the first one Argentina was the first one to go out and they actually use the mobile wallet that exists in the joint venture we have with Smart Telecom in the Philippines called MTS.
So that's the first one out there.
The second one Zoom had just launched in April actually I think just around the time of our first quarter earnings call or just after or just before I am kind of forgetting that's the first mobile program in the region that has a MasterCard prepaid Companion Card in addition to the mobile wallet.
So two different kinds of flavors my sense is the concept of having a prepaid card as a companion card a cash to the mobile payment will probably drive this faster than just a mobile payment by itself only because to answer to Bill's question building ecosystems around new things takes time.
The card acceptance system even if it's not completely built out in Brazil is way more built out than a mobile-only payment system.
So that's the first learning we've got and I think we've got a lot of learning’s about working with Telefonica we've now actually in the I don’t know last three four months I forget when we've launched two more initiatives with them both in Europe.
I think there is something in the Czech Republic and there is something with them in Germany that we are doing.
So the relation has expanded a little bit beyond the original construct in Latin America.
Operator next question please.
Our next question comes from Tom McCrohan from Janney.
You may go ahead.
Most of the questions on the quarter are answered.
I'll ask a bigger picture question.
When you joined MasterCard three years ago you talked about innovations and the importance of that.
And I was wondering if there is any way you kind of speak to kind of how you are tracking to creating that culture in terms of financials like how much of our revenue for example revenue growth over the last few years was a function of new product introductions and new innovations.
And as you look forward and see you’re in a kind of three-year financial outlook.
How much of that is going to be -- how much of the growth is going to be attributable to some sort of innovation as that MasterCard is developing today?  So we haven't put provided a measure of an innovation index which is kind of what you're referring to.
But as Martina just explained in an answer to Rod a little while ago if you think about our three year projection on revenue growth those 2 3 4 percentage points at the end that she was talking about are from innovation in new products from things like data analytics which to me is a relatively new product all the way to the changes in market share and growth whether it be U.S.
Credit or frankly U.S.
Debit or all the things we are doing overseas as well.
So you can see it in that ballpark in that block of 2% 3% 4%.
My whole attempt around innovation was to change the way we went to market so that we didn't just sell credit debit prepaid and commercial but we looked at diversifying that growth from the core products both in terms of geographies and in terms of the kind of clients we worked with.
So there you can see 30 odd deals that mobile telecom operators in the last two years we had none three or four years ago in fact the dialogue used to be how they wouldn't need the banks and the networks to be able to grow I think that demonstrates clearly that we have been able to show that our product set and technology adapted to mobile payments can work with them.
I just was talking about Telefonica.
So there are examples like that and a number of others.
I talked about SingTel and the other Telcos in my call as well.
So that's the first part.
The second part around innovation has to do with mobile payments eCommerce and the whole aspect of information services.
We are making a lot of progress on all three.
Mobile I just talked about.
We've done a lot of work in information services and data analytics.
So that's where we are.
I don't have an innovation index that I'm going to give you publicly because the issue is what's the new product.
In a consumer product company you can evaluate it in different ways what's the new product for us is a credit card with a new set of features a new product or a new product only that which comes in a new delivery channel and then we'll get into endless discussions about that.
I'm much more focused on measuring our ability to generate new ideas in the company do solution based selling to our clients and see the impact on our brands.
And our brands has gone from being number 87 in the brand index evaluated by clients to number 20 in four years.
And we spend about the same or a little less money than we used to.
That's all part if you look at that brand index it talks about innovation as being a big driver of the change.
So that's kind of how I measure it right now.
May a few years down the road Martina will actually allow me to talk about an innovation index and I will let you deal with her on that one.
Operator I think we have time for one last question.
Our final question comes from Tien-tsin Huang from JP Morgan.
You may go ahead.
Just want to ask a couple of follow ups.
Just I guess on product innovation at Visa's Investor Day they talked about I was trying to look up the number something like $200 million in the last two years in product innovation.
I'm curious how does that compare roughly to what MasterCard spent in product innovation? And then my follow-up was just want to clarify from Martina the other line was a little bit better than we had modeled does that capture the pricing you referred to be on the cross-broader change?  So Tien-tsin let me first take other revenues first.
So in other revenues actually what you’re seeing is showing up is some really nice growth in our Access Prepaid business as well as in our Advisors business.
And you know Ajay already talked about some of the foreign (ph) structures in Australia that we’re doing in both of those businesses.
In addition to couple of the price increases that I talked about which are reflected in other revenues.
The first part Tien-tsin I don't know how Charlie measured the number.
So I haven't had a chance to understand what's inside that number.
I kind of Investor Day is not that far away.
So we'll chat with you then on that topic.
But the issue is what's inside as I was answering to the earlier question makes all the difference.
So for example all the work we’re doing on fraud tools is that innovation in a sense that probably is because it's developing entire new forms of technology.
All the work we’re doing on tokenization is that innovation probably is if it delivers a new way of dealing with safety.
All the work we are doing with Truaxis to drive merchant funded loyalty programs around the world is that innovation and R&amp;D probably we've got MasterCard labs we've got different portions that are delivering this answer.
I actually don't look at it that way.
I look at it as I said in the earlier question of funding this in many different ways but most importantly in changing the way we talk to merchants and banks and governments about relating with them in a more solution based selling way.
So the example with Nigeria where they were trying to do an ID scheme which ended up being not just that but also a payment scheme with a card that's two sided with a chip.
We spend money on that is that innovation we spend money on biometric identification for the UID in India.
So I don't want to get into I’ve counted this and not counted that and create some new metric that everybody will try and track but you should know that there are a ton of people in this company whose only job is if they want to come to work on January 01 2014.
They better have new ideas or they won't be allowed.
That I can promise.
Ajay do you have some closing comments?  I do.
Okay after all that okay.
So what do I think about this we delivered pretty solid results for the first half of this year.
Driven off as we have talked about a little bit volume and transaction growth around the world and world-wide GDP across the 1 trillion level for the first time in the second quarter and Martina was reading that out I was looking at that as a milestone in some ways but on to the next trillion already.
And our first half net revenue growth was a bit better than the forecasted for all the reasons we talked about.
We remain confident about this three year performance objective that we have got out there and we’re working hard to deliver on another good year in spite of what I consider to be somewhat unpredictable economic condition.
My view is that the secular trends in our industry are just of great interest to me they are strong drivers for top-line growth even in slower economic environments.
So I’m looking forward to seeing many of you in the Investor Day in September.
I think you will get a chance to hear about our strategic focus areas you will experience as you have done for the last couple of years.
Some of our innovative products and services.
We have got some really cool ones lined up for you this year so hopefully that will be fun.
In the meantime thank you for your support and thank you for being on the call with us today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MasterCard third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Barbara Gasper head of investor relations.
You may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for a discussion about our third quarter 2013 financial results.
With me on the call this morning are Ajay Banga our president and chief executive officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our chief financial officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session and up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
This morning’s earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at mastercard.com.
The earnings release includes reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to their GAAP equivalents.
The release and the slide deck have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one week through November 7.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today’s earnings release I need to remind everyone that today’s call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard’s future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filing.
And with that I will now turn the call over to our chief executive officer Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara and good morning everybody.
We are very pleased with our results this quarter.
We’ve had a net revenue growth of 16% or 15% when adjusted for currency and that’s been driven by solid volume and transaction growth in every region around the world.
And I think that revenue growth allowed us to invest more back into the business in areas such as digital products and the safety and security around them.
We were able to make these additional investments while still delivering a net income growth of 14% or 13% adjusted for currency and an EPS growth of 18% or 17% on an FX-adjusted basis.
So let’s start in our novel way by looking at the underlying economic trends and you can start with the United States.
Consumer spending was relatively flat from the second quarter better than expected growth.
Our spending pulse data for the third quarter shows that U.S.
retail sales growth ex-automobiles is about 3.8%.
Now that’s down just slightly from the 4% of the second quarter.
Over the last three or four months we have seen a slow steady decline in the confidence numbers and that’s probably the reason behind the slight deceleration of our spending pulse data.
And of course the recent circumstances in Washington have contributed I think to a sharp decline in October’s consumer confidence.
What that means for consumer spending for the remainder of the year kind of remains to be seen as yet.
The fact is that for us as a company despite the relatively flat growth in overall consumer spending in the U.S.
we saw an increase in our U.S.
business in the third quarter where volume grew 9% up from last quarter driven by improvements in consumer credit.
In Europe overall economic growth was subdued in the third quarter and we expect it to remain that way through the end of the year.
But European consumer confidence continued the recovery that it started in the second quarter and it’s now back up to the 2010 levels.
Business sentiment has also improved over the quarter across major European markets like Germany France the U.K.
and even Italy.
And the combination of an improved environment in some markets along with the continued secular shift and most importantly our business wins have driven third quarter volume growth up 17% up from 14% last quarter with Poland Russia Sweden as some of the key contributors to those numbers.
Now looking elsewhere in the world in Asia consumer spending in the third quarter increased in key markets.
Consumer confidence levels have remained by and large steady across the region.
However business sentiment continues to be mixed because of lingering concerns about the global economy.
Our business in this region continues to do well.
We had strong volume growth of 22% up from the 21% that we showed last quarter.
In Latin America consumer confidence in Brazil improved but Mexico edged down slightly in September and across the region forecasts for the remainder of the year seem to indicate that GDP growth rate will probably remain sluggish.
Our business in the region continues at a healthy pace.
We had a 17% growth this quarter similar to our growth rate over the last quarter.
So overall you step back from all of this and it feels like the underlying global economy is showing the right trends to get back onto a more solid footing.
What we then need to see a more balanced and practical approach on the part of the political leadership to allow those underlying improving economic trends to take hold and bear fruit.
Before moving on to business highlights I’d like to say a few words on where things currently stand on the legal and regulatory front.
First on the U.S.
merchant litigation nothing new to report.
Judge Gleeson held the final settlement approval hearing as you know on September 12.
We’re all awaiting his ruling which is expected sometime later this year.
On the debit front as you know the Federal Reserve appealed the district court’s July decision.
The judge issued a stay of the existing rules pending the outcome of an expedited appeal and the Fed recently filed a brief presenting their arguments in response to the judge’s decision.
The Appeals Court probably will issue their ruling sometime in 2014.
The European Commission’s proposed legislation is the third one.
Both the European parliament and the Council of Ministers need to review potentially amend and finally [draft] on the commissioners’ final proposal.
The parliament has begun the process and though it’s still early days they have now appointed what they call a rapporteur who has the responsibility for both drafting and then shepherding the legislation through their parliamentary process.
He has announced a draft timeline that includes a session on November 5 to officially kick it off.
He will also be meeting with us next week.
The commission has indicated they would like the proposal to be adopted before parliament goes into recess in the spring.
As we have said before that timeline appears ambitious in light of what needs to be accomplished before [work] can actually be taken in the European parliament.
So now let’s move on to some of our recent business activities.
You heard enough from us at investor day relatively recently in September.
You had an opportunity to see firsthand a number of the product innovations we were rolling out from our simplified commerce acceptance solutions to social benefit programs to shop [unintelligible] and so I’m not going to go into all that but I’m going to talk about a couple of different items.
And the first one is that last quarter there were several new partnerships established with U.S.
merchants.
In addition to the agreement with Virgin Atlantic that Chris [unintelligible] probably mentioned I think on investor day we have now signed three more new credit program relationships and partnerships with Hawaiian Airlines being the largest of those three.
The second big area of focus for us and frankly it’s true of everybody in the payments industry as you heard on the Visa call yesterday is safety and security the importance of which is second to none as our physical digital worlds converge.
Historically how this has worked is that when you develop industry standards and specs we did it with traditional payment partners - banks other networks.
Today we are working with those also but with a broader group as well that includes technology companies and merchants.
The idea is that by expanding this participation we’ll get to create better consumer better merchant experiences and at the same time ensure safer and more secure transactions.
And the drive to continually upgrade to newer technology is going to mean that all of us have to ensure that payment security standards adapt more quickly to changing consumer and merchant needs than they have in the past.
So one interesting new development in that area is tokenization and as you know earlier this month we along with Visa and American Express proposed global standards to replace these traditional account numbers with digital tokens for online and mobile transactions.
What that ensures is that the cardholder’s bank has access to their card information and only the cardholder’s bank has that access.
It eases the merchant’s requirement of having to keep that specific card information secure.
What the merchant sees is a token.
We can connect that token back to that specific information with the bank.
Work is being done in collaboration with issuers as well as other industry stakeholders and the idea generally is all of us to improve cardholder security reduce the impact of fraud and yes provide a good consumer and merchant experience.
So in addition to that we’ve joined the board of Fast Identity Online Alliance an industry consortium.
Members there include Google and Paypal.
The consortium promotes standards in support of authentication technologies such as biometrics.
And you’ve heard us talk about biometrics a number of times but along with existing solutions like chip cards and NFC I think doing this will help us to ensure that the development of standards that happens which everybody can innovate in is in an environment that is safer and more secure for online commerce.
But supporting safer and more secure transactions is more than just creating new standards.
It could also deal with platforms such as what we are doing through our DataCash business to provide a more secure environment for ecommerce merchants.
For example in Brazil - Brazil is one of the largest and fastest-growing ecommerce markets in the world - we announced a new partnership last year with DataCash and ReadyCARD one of Brazil’s largest [acquirers].
As a result of the partnership ReadyCARD recently launched an ecommerce gateway with fraud and risk management services.
They’re the only ones by the way in the Brazilian market to offer payment processing and fraud tools together in one place making it much simpler for merchants to accept cards without the need to sign up with multiple vendors for these different needs of theirs.
Finally on this topic security can also be about using our technology our data and the expertise around it to provide services that have [reduced the cost] to our customers in ways they sometimes cannot do themselves.
Let me give you an example.
We used our global network and data analytics and leveraged it and we’re helping our customers right now by monitoring inter-regional activities on all of our cards in over 150 countries and at more than a million ATMs around the world.
What that allows us to do is it gives us a chance to provide better insight to our issuers about potential fraud threats that go well beyond what they can see themselves just through their own card activity.
So we introduced what’s called Fraud Rule Manager at ATMs in April and this resulted in significant reductions in inter-regional ATM fraud on Maestro cards and that reduction is up to 70% in some regions.
Now in the context of overall ATM volume fraud is small but that’s not the point I’m trying to make.
I’m trying to make the point that the level of improvement up to 70% represents a powerful example of what we can do with data and technology.
So with that let me turn the call over to Martina for a conversation on our financial results and operational metrics.
Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on page three of our slide deck where you see that this quarter the difference between as reported and FX-adjusted growth rates is 1 percentage point for each line item.
All of my comments today will pertain to the FX-adjusted growth rates.
To reiterate what Ajay said we continue to be pleased with our performance.
Even with the relatively difficult environment we’re able to make progress on the conversion from cash to electronic forms of payment and win business around the world.
Net revenue grew 15% which combined with operating expense growth of 13% resulted in net income growth of 13%.
EPS growth was 17% benefitting from our share repurchase program.
During the third quarter we purchased almost 575 000 shares of class A common stock at a cost of approximately $345 million with $925 million remaining under our current authorization.
We did not repurchase any additional shares in October given the parameters of the 10b5-1 plan that we set a couple of months ago.
Our strategy remains unchanged.
We will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
Cash flow from operations was $1.3 billion and we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of about $6 billion.
So let me now turn to page four where you can see the operational metrics for the third quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 15% on a local currency basis to over $1 trillion.
U.S.
GDV grew 9% with credit volumes growing 7%.
U.S.
commercial credit growth was in the mid-teens higher than last quarter and U.S.
consumer credit growth was positive and a continued improvement over prior quarters.
Our U.S.
debit growth was 11% driven by growth from consumer commercial debit and prepaid programs.
And outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 18% on a local currency basis and this continued to be driven by APMEA with a 22% growth rate and solid 17% growth in both Europe and Latin America.
Cross-border volume grew 19% on a local currency basis including more than 25% in Latin America and APMEA and growth in the high teens in Europe.
Turning to page five here you see process transactions grew 16% globally to more than $10 billion for the first time.
In the U.S.
we saw good growth due to increases in debit and credit card transactions.
And outside the U.S.
process transactions grew 23%.
We saw increased growth from the second quarter in all regions with particular strength in Europe driven by our business wins in Sweden and continued good growth in Russia and Poland.
And globally the number of cards grew 8% to almost $2 billion Mastercard and Maestro branded cards.
Now let’s turn to page six for some insights on our revenue.
Within our net revenue growth of 15% growth revenue grew 13% in line with volume and transaction drivers along with some contribution from pricing.
Rebates and incentives increased by 8%.
As I said last quarter the rebates and incentive line can move around on a quarter to quarter basis.
Similar to what we saw last quarter there were a couple of factors impacting the growth rate in the quarter.
First while we signed a significant number of contracts during the quarter there were a few that we now expect to sign in the fourth quarter instead of the third quarter.
And second we have a couple of contracts that paid out at a lower level of incentives than in the past very similar to last quarter.
Similar to the prior quarters growth in domestic assessment was again driven by strong growth outside of the U.S.
A lot of this growth is coming from the work we are doing in places like Russia and South Africa around financial inclusion.
These countries will initially produce lower using transactions as people first use the cards at ATMs before beginning to use them at merchants.
And just one last note on revenue.
Excluding pricing cross-border revenue growth was 9%.
The resulting gap between the cross-border volume and revenue growth numbers is mainly due to the higher mix of inter-Europe activity.
So let me move to page seven where you can see that total operating expenses were up 13% in the quarter growing significantly higher than in recent quarters.
First given the revenue growth that we saw in the third quarter we took the opportunity to increase our advertising and marketing.
As a result you can see that this line item is up by 16% mainly due to higher media spend.
And second the 13% increase in G&amp;A expenses continued to be primarily driven by investments related to all aspects of our growth strategy.
Turning to slide eight let’s discuss what we’ve seen in October through this past Monday.
Each of our business drivers is slightly lower in this period compared to the third quarter but when we adjust for the extra processing day that we had in the third quarter of this year versus last year the growth rates are actually very similar.
For our processed volume and transaction metrics only that extra processing day provided a tailwind of about 1 to 2 percentage points to our growth in Q3.
So here are the numbers through October 28.
Globally our cross-border volumes grew about 18%.
In the U.S.
our processed volume grew 9%.
Processed volumes growth outside of the U.S.
grew 16% and in particular since I know you’re all very interested in that our European processed volume growth continued in the teens the range that we have seen throughout 2013.
And globally processed transaction growth was 14%.
Looking forward let’s start with our long term performance objectives for the 2013 to 2015 period which has not changed.
We remain confident that our business can deliver an 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR which still includes a modest contribution from pricing over the three-year period and at least a 20% EPS CAGR.
These growth rates are on a constant currency basis and exclude any new acquisitions.
We also remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
Now I’d like to share with you some thoughts about the rest of 2013 which is slightly improved versus what we said at our September investor day.
Given our continued stronger than expected net revenue growth and the level of rebates and incentives we expect for the balance of the year we now believe that second half net revenue growth will be slightly better than the 12% growth rate that we produced in the first half.
This includes an assumption of a significantly higher growth rate in rebates and incentives in the fourth quarter versus what we have seen to date this year at least in the mid to high teens range.
We now anticipate total 2013 operating expenses to grow a bit more than the 8% currency adjusted growth rate we had in 2012 as we are able to put a little more into A&amp;M than we planned and our G&amp;A growth has proven to be more back end loaded than we originally expected.
Even with this high expense level we still expect to deliver some operating margin expansion in 2013.
And for your modeling purposes we continue to expect a full year tax rate of about 31%.
So with respect to FX if rates remain similar to where we are today that is the euro trading at the $1.37 level and the Brazilian real at the $2.19 level for the remainder of the year the net impact of the euro and the real would be a slight tailwind for the full year of 2013.
Now let me turn the call back to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thank you Martina.
We’re now ready to begin the question and answer period.
And in order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
[Operator instructions.] And our first question is from Chris Brendler of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
I wasn’t quite sure what you said about cross-border.
I think you said revenue growth without pricing was only 9% compared to almost 20% transaction growth? Is that correct Martina? That is absolutely correct and you know this is exactly the trend that we have seen in prior quarters.
And this quarter was a bit more pronounced because actually our inter-European cross-border activity grew fairly large versus the rest of the cross-border activity as well as when you have the appreciation of the euro factored in you see that the gap is widening.
And so my other question on the same topic was can you give us any more color around the cross-border volume trend almost 20% growth is phenomenal.
Is most of that sequential increase Europe? You mean on domestic assessment? No still on cross-border transactions.
No our regions contributed in a very significant way to the cross-border volumes but when you just look at inter-European volume just from a pure dollar point of view it is larger than what you have in general across the world.
Our next question is from Jason Kupferberg of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Just a question on a couple of metrics.
Can you just go into a little more detail on the U.S.
credit side of the story? Because it was obviously great to see the acceleration there.
I know you mentioned both commercial and consumer accelerated but maybe you can parse that a little further which accelerated more or kind of where are you running more precisely on U.S.
consumer? And then can you just clarify if the process transaction growth actually accelerated in the month of September? Because it looked like the full quarter number was quite a bit better than the July/August in the quarter update.
On the first part part about U.S.
credit the commercial credit of course picked up well but the good news is that even in consumer credit we saw continued positive improvement.
In fact last quarter we told you that our U.S.
consumer credit was actually a very small growth rate third quarter better than that.
I’m actually not going to give you the exact number but it’s headed in the right direction.
It’s not where I’d like it to be but it’s headed in the right direction.
On investor day we told you we’d won more than 60% of the [total] brand that have been up for bid in the U.S.
over the past 12 months.
We haven’t lost any where we were the incumbent.
That remains the case.
In fact we got a few extra as I just announced as well.
So we’re kind of working on that.
It’s just going to be as I said a bunch of doubles and singles and stolen bases - quite appropriate for yesterday’s World Series game although Chris [unintelligible] is probably a happy boy given that his team won.
But there’s a bunch of doubles and singles and stolen bases to get our share back to where it should be for a company of our type.
We have in the past lost share in that space and I have said so but we’re making progress.
And that’s what’s giving us our numbers here.
Commercial credit just continues to do well and that’s just the steady steady growth rate in what we are doing in driving our acceptance advantage our capabilities with smart data we’ve put people on the street that actually go sell this product with our issuers to different corporate clients as well as small businesses and it’s beginning to show the results of the effort.
And with respect to your second question actually when you look at July August and September data processed transactions grew fairly similar.
There was a little bit of an up one down one point but it was very similar to the whole quarter and is very similar to what we’re actually seeing in October.
And this is in both the United States as well as outside of the United States we are seeing these kinds of improvements over last quarter.
Our next question is from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Question for Martina.
I guess when I look at the domestic assessment yield that’s been coming down quite a bit over the last couple of years and I was just wondering at what point it might stabilize given the fact that you are seeing credit kind of pick up and I guess the mix shift’s kind of played out a little bit? It’s a good question but you know we are doing the significant work around the globe in particular in countries that have a lot of work to be happening on the financial inclusion side.
And when you look at these countries South Africa Nigeria or even when you go back into Russia you know how this starts first.
If you’re going to put the cards out to people first they’re going to get used to how to use these cards which will be at ATMs and that’s where you are seeing a little bit of a lower yield coming in for ATM transactions.
And then we’re working on the infrastructure for those consumers to be able to use the cards at merchants which at that point in time you’re starting to see some different pricing for those kind of transactions.
So it’s an evolution.
And by the way if we are doing our job correctly that means expanding in those countries in a significant way we should continue to be seeing some of these factors coming through over time and not stopping.
Our next question is from Bill Carcache of Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
Can you talk about how much of the strength that you saw in your U.S.
credit volume growth rate was driven by the success that you’re having in the co-brand space specifically? And how does the pipeline look for potential new co-brand wins? Has that dimmed given all the wins you’ve had recently or do you still see room for growth specifically in co-brand? The room for growth definitely.
The co-brand business is a relatively large business in the U.S.
and there’s a constant cycle of brands that come up for renewal.
And we’re in strong and continuous dialog as are all our competitors in the space with a very large number of merchants as well as airlines hotels and banks.
So I think there’s a long runway here for growth and possibility.
I’m not going to give you specific numbers on the growth specifically from the wins we had versus what came out of a general improvement in some of the underlying mix of our portfolios versus that of our consumers versus what came out from consumers going back to credit.
Those three are the big factors and I’m not going to give you specifics on that but all three played a role.
Some of our stronger issuers have had better sales volume growth recovering over a period of time.
We have seen the consumer using credit a little more than they used to although debit is still clearly growing very handsomely as we’ve stated.
But we’ve also seen the results of our first efforts in our co-brands as those cards are getting replaced and changed that their volumes are coming through.
I would tell you that those volumes are smaller than the impact of the first two topics just because it takes time after you win a deal to convert the cards onto our brand.
Our next question is from Glenn Fodor of Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Martina just a quick question.
Would you say a greater portion of the investments you made this quarter are related to initiatives that you expect to drive revenue growth by 2015 within your financial goals period? Or were they more heavily weighted to longer-term type return projects that are more in their infancy right now? It’s really a mixture.
As you know we always look at investments that in the short term bucket which means that they’re really returning over the next 12 to 18 months a return; the medium term bucket which is more like a 3 to 4 year timeframe; and the longer-term bucket which is kind of the 5-plus return.
And so there are a number of things in there as we did but of course when you see all of the comments that we made about digital convergence and all the investments that have to go in there from a security and safety point of view how you put the product together from a consumer merchant experience we do have of course some investments going in there and we’ll see how that’s going to play out for the future.
Things like tokenization will probably only pay back in terms of better consumer experience and better fraud control out there in some period.
When it’s things like simplified commerce if it gets picked up well in the marketplace which we are very hopeful of then you would find that to be a more interesting item closer in this period.
So it’s actually a mixed bag of stuff but that’s not just this quarter.
What’s going on on our G&amp;A line is the results of continued and sustained investments organically and some inorganically which become organic in our base as we said after a period of time.
So Access Prepaid is now in our base.
The money we put into expanding the capabilities of Access Prepaid show up in our G&amp;A line whereas if you were to buy once we conclude the acquisition of Provus that’s going to show up for a while as separate from being in our base.
So it’s actually a very complicated question to answer but the way we manage this inside the company is we look at our strategy which we lay out for you on investor day we make sure that we’ve got adequate resources going towards the basic elements in that strategy of new merchants new consumers digital physical convergence and all the [space] for the safety and security and then we put a certain amount of energy into more short term kinds of growth rate and revenue.
So it’s a mixed bag.
Our next question is from David Togut of Evercore Partners.
Please go ahead.
Could you size for us your European debit processing pipeline and in particular are there any large transactions that we might see on the horizon? So I guess you’re talking about the whole stuff in SEPA right what goes on there? The fact is that we’re now seeing domestic volumes in virtually every one of the SEPA countries.
And as you know a few years back we only saw cross-border.
So in this third quarter the processing of domestic Maestro transactions increased by 19% in the SEPA region.
We’ve grown in the Netherlands we’ve had very attractive percentages of growth in Austria and Belgium but also lower pace.
The Netherlands is actually the much higher base as you’ll remember from all the work we did.
So we are kind of moving along in that range and we’re going to keep I think getting breakthroughs in a number of countries in this space.
Acquisitions of things like Provus actually could be helpful in driving this number as is all the work that we have done with a similar company that we built up in Poland over the last four or five years.
And those are the kinds of things that we’re trying to do to get to a better place in those domestic transactions.
And one other region that you’re really going to see in our numbers as we already said is really the Nordics and in particular Sweden.
And that is on the debit [but for year 2].
Our next question is from Craig Maurer of CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Regarding the cross-border volume growth it really is separating itself from your largest competitor.
The 13 consecutive wins you’ve had in China and the fact that that’s only cross-border is that a major contributor to that separation? I obviously understand the inter-Europe discussion.
And also is the recent revelation regarding the NSA impacting any of your discussions with issuers around the globe? There’s no doubt that China as you know is a pretty attractive cross-border spending market.
Every country around the world is targeting Chinese tourists.
And so that’s a pretty obvious one.
We have benefited certainly from that but you know in the context of our overall numbers  I don’t want to overstate the importance of China to our total numbers.
We’ve got very good cross-border volume growth in every region and so China contributes to the Asian growth in terms of cross-border but there’s a lot of other countries in Asia that are driving very attractive cross-border.
I mean countries like Australia and New Zealand are outstanding in cross-border volume growth.
Countries across ASEAN are giving us good benefits.
When you come to Latin America you’ve got growth.
You go to Europe… So it’s a mixed bag.
I’d be careful to overstate the importance of one country.
But I love the position we’re in in China in terms of winning those co-brands and we’re still winning some despite all the changes that are going on with the WTO ruling in China which as you know is still not completely clear where that’s going but we’re still winning some brands there.
The NSA discussion is a much deeper discussion way beyond just us but you know right now we’re not having a direct situation with any issuers in countries overseas that impact us.
I think the longer bigger term issue for a lot of global companies is that if the fears about privacy go to a point where people would attempt to find ways to have more localization then that certainly impacts the way that you construct your business model over time.
Now we’re a little more fortunate than some of our competitors in that when Bob Selander built the technology system in our company he built it in a distributed way so more than 80% of our transactions in any country are approved at local servers in that country installed by us called MIPs.
And I have no idea what the damned thing stands for it’s Mastercard something.
But they are black boxes lying in different banks and retailers.
I’ve been told the name and what it stands for regularly.
I keep forgetting it.
So basically a black box with blinking lights that helps you to clear transactions locally.
And we download an intelligence logic into that regulatory over the course of a day that enables us to say card number so and so tends to behave like this and therefore transactions that come in of that type get approved locally on soil on the ground in that country.
Very few transactions actually come back to St.
Louis in our case for being diagnosed and approved.
And during the time that we had for example an undersea cable break between Taiwan and the U.S.
we were able to dial that 80% to 100%.
So our continuity of business is also better than a number of our competitors.
So you know we’re using all those discussions as we’re out there overseas but you know that nationalistic tendencies are a tendency not just in our industry but in a number of industries.
So the NSA is just one small pimple on a dimple on the ant’s left cheek on that issue.
Our next question is from Dan Perlin of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
I have a broad-based question.
You know both yourselves and Visa have put forth in prepared remarks on a call the safety and the security and the integrity of the network.
And I’m just wondering is this approach you know for your token agenda? Or is there something else that’s happened over the course of the past year where the technology players have come in they’ve seen how difficult it is.
You guys act as the grownup in the room and so they’re kind of gravitating back towards the security of the network? If you could just elaborate on that I’d appreciate it.
The timing of the fact that Visa has this in yesterday’s call and the fact that we’re talking about it today is just crazy coincidence.
And I don’t even know I think I should give Charlie a call after this and say was he prescient or what? But I have no idea.
[unintelligible] The fact is that tokenization happened in this quarter.
And to us tokenization is a material change and move forward in the way that we believe as an industry not just Visa us and Amex who put this out together but even the issuing community with whom we’ve been in very good dialog who frankly are very interested in this themselves.
The idea is to find a way as you can clearly guess to protect the weakest link in the security chain which is the smaller merchant who you cannot expect them to be spending the same kind of money as we would on data encryption both at storage and in motion on the managing of that data and so on.
So we’re trying to as an industry find a responsible way to help control that while at the same time allow for what I believe in the digital world will be the holy grail which is the least friction from a consumer’s point of view in how to execute a transaction.
You know Millennials these days don’t like friction in hunting and shopping.
And it’s just a very important part of what we’re trying to go at.
So we talked about safety and security because of the tokenization event this quarter.
I would otherwise have chosen a different topic.
I’m trying to pick one topic of interest every quarter to you guys and talk about that in some depth.
And then [unintelligible] other topics and I’ll start again but that’s kind of what I’m trying to do.
And safety and security happened to be the one for this quarter.
Now the aspect of our networks have great barriers of safety and security in terms of what we’ve built and invested over a long period of time and there are a lot of other who’ve said they could just do this business realized that being in the payments business is more than having a network of some type that exchanges data.
Yet absolutely for three or four years now we’ve been talking to mobile network operators we’ve been talking to banks we have talked to merchants we have talked to others and said what we bring to the table are our assets one of which is the safety security and reliability of our network.
Because we’ve got other assets too like the one I just described about how 80% of our transactions are approved locally.
And so some of our assets are common across the industry some of our assets are differentiated for us compared to others and we are certainly using all of them in our conversations.
Our next question is from Glenn Greene of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
I guess from your comments Martina sort of talking about the extra processing day in the quarter I just want to be real clear because obviously it was a topic of conversation last night on Visa’s call.
But did you see any slowdown in volume trends toward the end of the quarter and through October? It doesn’t sound like it but want to be clear on that.
And then maybe you could just help us parse the acceleration in the European volume trends with some particulars on the Eastern Europe part of the business.
How fast did that grow and what’s the portion of the European pie from Eastern and Central Europe at this point? First of all for the first question yes there was as I said an extra processing day in the first quarter but when I look at July August and September other than what we saw from an oil price impact in the United States we really haven’t seen any significant impact from a change in the growth rates.
It was relatively even.
You know you could see in September just being a tad lower but then you see it quite coming up in October again.
So truly even when you adjust for the processing day there wasn’t really impact on that.
And then when you compare the third quarter versus October just to get a sense of how the fourth quarter is starting again very very similar growth rates if you compare like for like.
So on your second question on the detail of growth in Eastern Europe you know Eastern Europe for us because this is part of our European region includes a lot of very high growth markets such as Russia Poland a number of other countries that are sitting in Eastern Europe.
And a lot of things that are driving there is that you have a lot of uses of cash like [unintelligible] frankly and they’re putting all of those cards out in the market and people are getting more used to be using cards rather than cash from a security point of view from a convenience point of view from an ease point of view etc.
And that is really what’s driving our growth and we really have not seen any letting up in those kinds of countries from a growth perspective and as long as we continue to do our work there you should see quite a bit of contribution from that secular trend coming.
The economic environment is you know depending how it is.
You guys know that we have three influences of growth one is the economic environment the second is the secular trends and the third is obviously market share.
But you know we [unintelligible] the last two things and that’s what you’re seeing in particular in that region.
You know we are really trying very hard to influence the second one which is the secular trend compared to just waiting for this to happen due to population changes or urban demographics or middle class demographics and so on.
That’s why the financial inclusion angle is such an important part of what we’re doing and why we’re spending so much time effort and energy on it.
So that’s what we’re trying to influence there.
The share yes that’s what we’re fighting for and fortunately we’re doing okay there.
It’s the economic trends that we don’t control.
But yes Eastern European countries are growing for all those reasons.
Somebody just emailed me with what MIPs stands for.
So Mastercard Integrated Processing Systems.
And let it be known that I now know what it is.
[laughter] Our next question comes from Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
I was just thinking about rebates and incentives in the industry.
I know Visa yesterday highlighted a pickup for their fiscal year ’14 in rebates and incentives.
Your rebates and incentives growth rate for the first three quarters has been pretty modest.
You talk about a little bit of a pickup in the fourth quarter but I guess the overriding question is are you seeing a pickup in rebate in incentives in the industry? Because one of your comments was that you thought rebates and incentives were lower in some contracts than in the past.
So I’m just trying to reconcile all these comments.
First of all I don’t expect significant change from a rebates and incentives line point of view when I look over the last three years and when I look in the future.
By the way all my comments on rebates and incentives are always included when I talk about our net revenues right? We don’t really talk about growth and rebates in the sense that we talk about net revenues.
So I don’t see any major change.
We just had an interesting development here for the last couple of quarters in this year which is that we had a couple of contracts where customers did not perform to what the performance hurdles were in the contract and therefore we didn’t pay out the level of incentives that were agreed as part of the contract.
That was really what was driving it.
When you pull that apart our rebates and incentives line is really going back to the kind of growth rates that we had produced over the last three years.
And that’s what I have said now about the fourth quarter.
We’re going right back to the kind of growth rates on rebates and incentives as what we have seen in the past.
So no different.
So really it’s an in and out issue.
Those couple of clients that we’ve had this conversation with about performance versus contract have made adequate difference with total numbers as you are seeing this change.
You shouldn’t expect that that should be something which persists in the future because the fact of what Martina is saying is that the underlying conversations the underlying deals being signed the kind of rebates that go into them the construct of them may change from client to client.
Some may be constructed one way some the other way but basically they’re there and going on.
And then the other big aspect of rebates and incentives the damned thing is lumpy.
You go sign a couple of big new deals and they’re lumpy.
You will get things come in that quarter which may not be quite what we expected.
It is a challenge with that line in our P&amp;L.
Our next question is from Andrew Jeffrey of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Just a follow up or maybe a point of clarification on tokenization.
I understand the rationale on it.
It makes perfect sense to me and [unintelligible] friction is an important topic in payments and P2P and other areas.
I can’t help but think a little bit in the back of my mind that tokenization also offers kind of a very convenient Trojan Horse by which the established networks can perhaps smooth the path for payments and increased security on traditional card-based payments and simultaneously potentially throw up a roadblock to some of the disruptors who might not be able to accommodate the tokenization technology that’s being advanced by the established participants.
Am I way off in left field somewhere? You have more devious mind than I do.
[laughter] I’ll tell you it’s a very simple issue.
If you go back to the days of introducing standards and mandates around requiring a certain level of payment system integrity in the industry which we put out the idea was to enable issuers and merchants - and not only enable but ask them to raise their thinking their quality and their capability in that space - so we could help provide protection for consumer data.
That’s where this is coming from.
And it’s worked in some ways because a number of people have raised their bar.
But frankly it hasn’t worked in others because smaller merchants smaller banks smaller acquirers are always going to find it more difficult to keep pace with what is a very well-funded industry which is aiming at fraud.
The digital world the onset of a digital physical converging world creates a whole new challenge in that space in terms of the number of different players and the way data moves around among those players.
All we are trying to do is to find a way to use our capacity and our capability as banks and networks to provide a protection filter in this process.
Now if you take back [unintelligible] which we bought years ago and had the ability to create virtual card numbers or the virtual card number facility that [unintelligible] used to offer when I was still working there for you to be able to purchase things online by using a different card number these are all elements of tokenization the early elements.
What you’re seeing us do now is a systemic methodological process-driven getting at tokenization where not only will you get your current payment instrument - be it a card or your account or a fingerprint that’s connected to your card or whatever the heck it is some account number in the sky - will remain in the sky protected and the data that will flow out will flow out differently to different mobile devices that you choose to interact with.
So not only will your number never reach the last point in the chain it could also reach differently for each device you work with.
And therefore it gives me yet another methodology of preventing people from using numbers on the wrong device which you haven’t registered your original account with.
And so on and so forth.
So it’s actually planning for tomorrow’s world of digitization rather than the current world of digitization.
So what we’re trying to do is to create these industry standards.
There’s going to be a ton of open APIs and the like that we are working with.
You look at MasterPass it’s full of open APIs.
The idea is to allow players in the industry to get our standard as a fundamental system and then innovate on top of it no differently by the way from what a lot of people do in Silicon Valley.
You create a standard and you allow people to innovate on it.
That’s what we’re trying to do.
It’s quite the opposite of what you’re thinking.
Our next question is from Darrin Peller of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
I just want to touch on the other revenue line.
It increased by a little more than what we expected and I think last quarter there were certain fees in there the staged wallet fee and I think the acquirer fee or one of the acquirer fees also that anniversaried.
So I might have expected that growth rate to be a little bit lower this quarter.
Can you just give us a sense of what’s driving that segment or that line? From an other revenue point of view you should continue to see some of the things that are not really related to our volume based business and our transactions based business going into here.
So for instance some of the acquisitions have been made from an Access Prepaid point of view from a DataCash point of view etc.
you would be seeing increases there.
Pricing actually had a very very little impact on this but over time you should be seeing this number going up from a growth perspective.
Advisors revenue also comes in here.
We have a number of information services we have in there so we have a number of other things in there.
So overall that line could be growing at a faster than corporate pace? It depends.
It depends how these businesses are basically developing and the care and the feed that we put into these businesses.
They’re more of our newer businesses.
But you know all of that is pretty much included in our net revenue performance objectives target for the next three years.
For sure if we can build our data analytics business the right way that’s one of the items in other areas and that should get a better percentage growth rate than the traditional transaction based business in the beginning at least.
When it becomes a certain size and scale - it’s getting to a decrease number these days… And so it’s all there.
This is all behind that other revenue line.
Other income expenses we have been saying for a number of quarters now that you should really expect that line to be trending into negative territory because really we have some of our joint venture activity in the investments that we make in those joint ventures one of which is for instance the Telefonica JV that we have in Latin America the two of them that we have.
So you should be seeing that line trending down over time into negative territory until we obviously get the return of the investment.
However that trend has been masked this quarter.
We had a couple of items in there that basically increased this line item and you saw it in positive territory.
There were really two things.
One we had some gains on some bonds that we sold.
So on the investment side.
And two we actually had some reversal of interest related to our FIN48.
So this was our tax reserve accruals that we do from time to time.
But other than that when you pull those items out you really should again see that line item trending down.
Our next question is from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Could you give us a little more color on what you’re spending incrementally in advertising and marketing? Where are you finding opportunities? What are you doing differently? Actually in addition to the [unintelligible] we’re doing a lot of things around changing the way our money is spent.
So a fair amount of money has gone into activation-oriented spending.
That’s why the Priceless Cities campaign started.
We’re now in 26-plus cities and headed for more.
That costs us some money to create both the asset base in those cities but also the actual marketing locally in those cities.
And we keep building the asset base so as I get an opportunity I’ll spend some money and put another city on the map on the Priceless Cities area.
That’s one kind of thing.
Another one is we’re changing the way we spend our money with sponsorships.
And so earlier we would pay a lot of that money to the organization that facilitated the sponsorship.
We’ve kind of changed that to [unintelligible] spend the money on activation in that location.
So if you were watching the Red Sox game over the last two days with the Cardinals you would have seen Stand Up to Cancer coming up with us a couple of times in there.
That’s the kind of thing we’re trying to do.
We’re trying to get exposure and benefits of that exposure through partnering with the right kind of elements and partners.
And then we’re doing some money on traditional media advertising.
You probably saw some advertising on our Acceptance Matters campaign because we believe we have a competitive advantage there over other players in the commercial and [unintelligible] card space.
So these are very targeted.
They’re all under the Priceless umbrella but executed based on opportunities we see at that time.
Our last question is from Tien-tsin Huang with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Just on G&amp;A it was up a little bit.
How much of that was driven by headcount? Martina just trying to gauge how sustainable that level is.
And then just as a follow up just thinking about M&amp;A I know you talked about that a little bit at the investor meeting looking at Paypal buying Braintree.
Does Mastercard need to own a gateway in the U.S.? I’ve been thinking about that topic a lot thought I’d ask you on the call.
I’ll take the first question on G&amp;A.
So when you actually look you know that most of our G&amp;A numbers really are related to investments in people.
I mean when you look at the trajectory that we are in terms of our hiring rates in the United States since December 31 of 2012 we hired about 500 people at this point in time.
And you should expect to see that coming into the fourth quarter too.
We’re hiring across the world.
It’s not just in the U.S.
We’re hiring in different parts of the world.
We’re hiring in London and Singapore and so on and so forth to kind of get our footprint improved but also our technical and technological capacities.
One little number that will give you a hint on that front is four years ago the Millennials in our population were 4%.
They’re now 30% of our population in our employment population.
Not all caused by hiring.
Part of it is caused by the acquisitions.
DataCash and Access had a different age profile.
But also by the hiring and all the [unintelligible] hiring isn’t incremental.
Some of it is to replace the people who leave for various reasons.
So it’s kind of a mixed bag.
But there’s a lot of money that’s going into the people.
There’s a lot of money going into technology.
So tokenization requires investment.
It’s a real technological platform that’s been invested and sustained and will require investment for a little period of time to come.
So there’s a lot of that going on.
As far as the gateway question is concerned you’re absolutely right.
I’d love to get into a bigger gateway position in the United States.
The fact is now that we feel comfortable where we are with DataCash and MiGS.
We had MiGS earlier as you’ll remember.
We bought DataCash put them together.
We’ve got that management team pretty well organized.
They are doing a very good job of executing and they’ve entered into Latin America and they’ve entered into a few global merchants including some in the U.S.
But there are lots of ways to get into that space and one of those could be not just through buying gateways but buying adjacent businesses that allow our gateway capability to connect well with the adjacent business to get a footprint into the U.S.
And so we’re working on a ton of those ideas and just one of them hasn’t [unintelligible] yet and haven’t come in at a value that I’d be happy to pay for some of the things that have been acquired by other people.
So I will leave you with a few closing thoughts.
We are pleased with our solid third quarter results.
As Martina said we’ve used the opportunity to put some money back into A&amp;M but we’re also continuing to invest in the most sustained way in the longer term aspects of our business.
And she and I talked about this in some detail she in particular at the investor day when she laid out the banner under which our investments were going.
Those investments can be organic in areas such as the convergence of physical and digital or in areas like technology that supports safety and security.
But they can also be through acquisitions like Truaxis and Access Prepaid.
And we recently announced Provus which hasn’t got as you know approved yet.
Hopefully it will get all sorted out in the fourth quarter and we can talk about it after that.
But these are only a few examples of the many initiatives that we are into that should drive long term growth.
And it connects back to the kind of question Tien-tsin just asked how we are trying to grow.
Our business continues to have strong momentum.
We’re focused on delivering another good year and I just want to thank you for your support through this entire period and thank you for joining us on today’s call.
Welcome to the MasterCard Fourth Quarter Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Clifford and I'll be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Gasper you may begin.
Thank you Clifford and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for a discussion about our fourth quarter and year-end 2013 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website mastercard.com.
The earnings release includes reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to their GAAP equivalents.
The release and the slide deck have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for 1 week through February 7.
All of the EPS figures in our press release and those discussed on today's call are presented on a post-split basis consistent with the SEC's reporting requirements following our 10-for-1 stock split that was effective at market open on January 22.
In order to provide a bridge for you between the pre-split and post-split EPS figures we have added a page in the Appendix section of the slide deck that breaks out the 2013 EPS by quarter and full year as well as the 2012 figures recalculated on a pro forma basis.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filing.
With that I will now like to turn the call over to our CEO Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
So we're very pleased that we were able to deliver strong results in 2013.
And those results basically were in line with our expectations.
Our net revenue growth was 13% both as reported and adjusted for FX.
It was driven by solid operational performance in processed transactions in gross dollar volume and cross-border volume growth.
And we were able to deliver some margin growth in spite of investing more back into the business.
For the full year 2013 excluding special items we saw net income growth of 15% or 14% adjusted for currency and reported EPS growth of 19% or 18% on an FX-adjusted basis.
And then for the fourth quarter we came in about where we thought we would even after signing more agreements than we had anticipated some of which I will talk about in a moment as well as putting money and investing some money back into the business.
I'll let Martina get into the quarterly financial details a little later.
So let's go to the global economic trends starting with the United States where it seems like the economy is beginning to show a bit of forward momentum.
Our SpendingPulse data that showed that U.S.
retail sales growth x auto for the fourth quarter was 3.9% and includes the fact that holiday retail sales grew faster than last year with particular strength in the A&amp;M commerce space.
Economic indicators such as housing and employment also showed some improvement during the quarter and consumer confidence bounced back from what was the low of October.
We saw an increase in our United States business in the fourth quarter with volume growth of 7% driven by improvements in consumer credit and in debit.
In Europe overall economic growth in the fourth quarter remained subdued although there are some indicators of a potential recovery.
Consumer sentiment continued a slow but very steady climb as did business sentiment across our major markets.
Northern Europe continues at a solid footing.
Southern Europe is moving up although it's coming off a lower base.
Key contributors to our 14% fourth quarter volume growth in the region were Russia Sweden the Ukraine and Poland.
In Asia Pacific consumer and business sentiment levels declined in the fourth quarter across major markets including Australia.
In addition worries about slowing growth in China go beyond being just a domestic issue and have broader implications as you all know for other markets that depend on Chinese demand.
In Latin America economic growth slowed a bit in the fourth quarter with consumer confidence declining in both Brazil and Mexico.
But across the rest of the region it was fairly positive.
So despite these sluggish economic indicators in both regions our Asia Pacific Middle East Africa GDV growth was 20% and our Latin America growth was 17% in GDV with transaction growth in the high 20s and the high teens all for -- was a high 20% for Asia Pacific Middle East Africa high teen for Latin America all relatively similar to previous quarters.
The fact that we had a significant proportion of our growth in emerging markets comes from the secular shift to electronic payments which I think is relatively uncorrelated to some of the economic cycles that we see the emerging markets currently going through.
Overall it feels like the U.S.
and Western Europe markets where we generate well over half of our revenue are slowly starting to regain their economic footing.
The general consensus is the U.S.
should have a decent economic growth in 2014 and there is increasing optimism about Europe.
As these developed markets recover it could be a catalyst to spark further growth in Asia and Latin America.
So now before we go to the business highlights let me say a few words on the legal and regulatory front.
In December as you know Judge Gleeson issued final approval of the U.S.
merchant litigation settlement.
We anticipate that most of the larger merchants who opted out will initiate separate actions.
And based on that analysis we have taken a $95 million pretax charge in the fourth quarter.
The cases filed to date are in the early stages but most have been consolidated under Judge Gleeson's court.
Also in mid-January both the Federal Reserve and the merchant claim desk presented oral arguments to the appeals court in response to Judge Leon's July decision on the Fed regulation around implementing the Durbin Amendment.
But the Appeals Court will likely issue a ruling sometime in 2014.
And with regards to the proposed European legislation you've probably all seen the Rakuten [ph] amendments to the EC's initial proposal.
But you should know that there are also more than 300 amendments submitted from other members of Parliament.
So the process is quite complicated.
A committee of Parliament will now deliberate and vote on all of this in late February.
And a vote by the full Parliament is currently scheduled for April.
Also in late February the Council of Ministers is expected to start a separate parallel review of the legislation.
So we kind of continue to believe that the time line for final adoption appears ambitious.
But obviously we are watching that situation very closely on the ground.
We were disappointed to learn yesterday that the Advocate General of Luxembourg issued an opinion siding against our appeal of the European Commission's 2007 decision regarding our intra-Europe cross-border interchange rates.
The court now has to rule and we'll find out what they'll say at some point this year.
But keep in mind that we had already modified these interchange rates to 20 and 30 basis points for debit and credit respectively in mid-2009.
So in effect this changes very very little in that space for either the banks or the merchants or us as of today.
So now let me move on to some of our recent business activity.
As I mentioned we finished the year signing even more deals than we anticipated which is good.
It sets us up well for future growth.
But let me just sort of call out a few of these that I personally found interesting.
So first we were very pleased to be able to continue and in fact enhance our partnership with Citi on the American Airlines portfolio.
That's an important co-brand for both of us.
As you know American Airlines is now the world's largest airline after its recent merger.
Second we recently completed a new agreement with Chase for their U.S.
commercial card portfolio providing corporate purchasing and fleet cards for their customers across many industry sectors and these customers range from midsize companies all the way up to large multinational corporations.
In December we also renewed our agreement with the Bank of Montréal which for us is a very important partner in Canada and the United States.
And in fact in the U.S.
we expanded our relationship to include consumer credit.
And we also recently extended our agreement with Tesco Bank.
And as you know Tesco Bank is a part of the third largest retailer in the world for their U.K.
consumer credit card portfolio.
That's a very good partnership for us with lots of future scope for expansion.
And finally capping off a year of advancements in Africa from a $13 million identity card pilot being launched in Nigeria that we've talked about to the NedBank conversion in South Africa we have now recently signed an agreement with Ecobank.
Ecobank is the largest pan-African bank.
It has a presence in 23 countries in Africa reaching 65% of Africa's population.
The bank will now issue our debit credit prepaid and other payment solutions.
And also it allows us to expand our acceptance in these markets.
Meanwhile MasterPass.
Momentum in our MasterPass continues.
And by the end of last year of 2013 we are now live in 5 markets with actually many more in the pipeline.
You probably saw our U.S.
advertising campaign with J.Crew and MasterPass over the holidays.
But we also had a number of other major global retailers agree to accept MasterPass including Brooks Brothers Always [ph] Live Nation Ticketmaster Singapore Airlines that brings the total number of merchants to more than 30 000 with most of them already live.
We're continuing to add new banking partners around the world as well including Unicredit in Italy; the 3 largest banks in Sweden SEB Swedbank and Nordea; and Caixa in Brazil.
And this adds on to ones we signed up in previous quarters such as the [ph] one in MasterPass.
Now another big area of focus for us is processing.
And that goes beyond our traditional role of switching transactions but also includes providing processing services on either side of that switch to surround the transaction.
Now some of you heard from Gary Flood at Investor Day back in September the more transactions we touch the greater our ability to deliver a wide range of services and generate additional revenue.
Touching a transaction even if we don't switch it can be very valuable to us.
So let me give you a flavor of a few recent initiatives in this area.
We have now completed our acquisition of Provus a provider of issuer and acquirer processing prepaid solution and ATM processing services in Turkey.
That's going to enable us to increase our processing presence in the high-growth markets in the European region.
TREVICA an issuer and acquirer processor in Poland will provide processing services to all the largest retailers in Portugal.
In the first half of this year that retailer is expected to roll out a new store card that will be able to accommodate credit prepaid private label and installment payments.
And we recently announced a partnership with BICS B-I-C-S a Belgian telecom company and eServGlobal a mobile money solutions provider.
We have formed a joint venture that will enable their HomeSend platform to connect to any financial institution across the MasterCard network.
That service is already offered in 50 countries with mobile network and money transfer operators.
And as we build our P2P initiatives this joint venture along with our relationship with Western Union gives consumers more places to send money both domestically and internationally.
And finally before I hand this over to Martina let me talk about the topic of safety and security of payments which has received a great deal of attention given all that's happened in the recent past on data breaches.
In last quarter's call we discussed safety and security in some depth.
The fact is this is fundamental to everything we do and it's what consumers expect and what they deserve.
In the United States migration to EMV is a necessary and critical step.
It makes stealing data much more difficult.
And also it makes stolen data less valuable to a fraudster.
That's why we announced 2 years ago our plan for the U.S.
migration from mag stripe to chip technology starting October 2014.
Earlier this month we reiterated that we are holding firm to that date because we believe it's the right thing to do.
Beyond the 0 liability protection for which our rules already provide consumers should not be at risk of having their personal information stolen and face enormous inconveniences and distress as a result.
While EMV works to protect in the physical space we also do need to make sure that we are ahead of this issue in the digital space.
And that is why we announced tokenization standards with all our other partners back in October.
What we would now like to see is that all players within the payments ecosystem come together with a sense of urgency to ensure that the highest payment security standards are put into place.
This is not easy but it's key to doing the right thing and sustaining consumer confidence and trust.
So with that let me turn the call over to Martina for a detailed update on our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
As Ajay already said we are very pleased with our 2013 performance of 13% net revenue growth.
EPS growth was 21% adjusted for foreign exchange and normalized for discrete tax benefits in 2012 which is consistent with the calculation of our long-term EPS performance target.
I will now focus on the details of the fourth quarter results excluding the $95 million pretax charge that we took this quarter related to the opt-out in the U.S.
merchant litigation.
Let me begin on Page 3 of our slide deck.
And here you'll see the differences between as-reported and FX-adjusted growth rates for this quarter ranging from 0 to 2 percentage points for each line item.
And all of my comments today will pertain to the FX-adjusted growth rate.
So net revenue grew 11% driven by strong underlying operational metrics but primarily offset by an increase in rebates and incentives as a result of signing a significant number of agreements in the quarter.
Based on our net revenue and operating expense growth net income increased by 11%.
EPS growth was 16% benefiting from our share repurchase program.
During the fourth quarter we purchased 9.8 million shares of Class A common stock at a cost of approximately $750 million.
Quarter-to-date through Friday an additional 4.2 million shares were repurchased at a cost of approximately $350 million with $3.3 billion remaining under our current authorization.
We continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
And cash flow from operations was $1.2 billion.
And we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of $6.3 billion.
Now let's turn to Page 4 and here you can see the operational metrics for the fourth quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 14% on a local currency basis to over $1.1 trillion.
U.S.
GDV grew 7% with credit volumes growing 6%.
U.S.
commercial credit growth was in the low teens down from last quarter.
U.S.
consumer credit growth of over 3% was about the same level as what we saw last quarter.
And our U.S.
debit growth was 9% driven by solid growth across our consumer and commercial debit and prepaid programs.
Now outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 17% on a local currency basis.
And this continues to be driven by Asia Pacific Middle East Africa with 20% growth and mid- to high-teens growth in both Europe and Latin America.
Cross-border volume grew 18% on a local currency basis including more than 20% in Latin America and Asia Pacific Middle East Africa and growth in the mid-teens in Europe.
Let's turn to Page 5.
Here you can see processed transactions growing 13% globally to more than $10.4 billion.
We saw double-digit growth in most regions around the world with particular strength in our Asia Pacific Middle East Africa region driven by Australia and South Africa.
And compared to last quarter this growth rate was down slightly.
However when normalizing for the number of processing days processed transaction growth for the fourth quarter was similar to what we saw in the third quarter.
Globally the number of cards grew 9% to almost 2 billion MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards.
Now let's turn to Page 6 for some insights on our revenue.
We're very pleased with the 15% growth in gross revenues which was in line with our expectations and driven by increased volume and transactions along with some contribution from pricing.
In addition beyond the 2 functional currencies that we adjust for revenues were slightly impacted by the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar and the euro versus other currencies.
However net revenue growth of 11% came in a bit lower than expected as a result of signing more deals in the quarter which Ajay already called out.
So the rebates and incentives line increased by 23% but we view this as a good thing for long-term revenue growth.
Growth in domestic assessments continues to be driven primarily by stronger volume growth outside of the United States much of which comes at a lower yield.
And one last note on revenue.
Excluding pricing cross-border revenue growth was 12%.
The resulting GAAP between cross-border volume and revenue growth continued to be mainly due to the higher mix of intra-Europe activity.
Moving on to Page 7.
You can see that total operating expenses were up 11% in the quarter as we took the opportunity to reinvest more back into the business similar to what we did actually in the third quarter.
First the 12% increase in G&amp;A expenses continues to be primarily driven by investments related to all aspects of our growth strategy including initiatives such as MasterPass and tokenization.
Part of our investment was in people and we ended 2013 with approximately 8 200 full-time employees up 9% from year-end 2012.
And what's more interesting is that the people that we've been hiring for the last couple of years are coming from sectors such as technology retail consumer goods and government which has been helping us to execute in these areas.
Second advertising and marketing was up by 8% mainly due to higher customer marketing support and media spend.
And while not on these slides I would like to note that the other income-expense line was $9 million negative i.e.
it was an expense in line with our expectations and primarily due to a number of our joint ventures such as the 2 with Telefónica.
As we ramp up these initiatives you can expect this line to continue to be negative.
Let me now turn to Slide 8 and here we discuss first what we have seen in January through this past Tuesday.
Each of our business drivers were flat but slightly higher in the period compared to the fourth quarter.
So the numbers through January 28 are as follow.
Globally our cross-border volumes grew about 18% and that's about equal to our fourth quarter growth rate.
In the U.S.
our processed volume grew 9% about 1 percentage point up from what we saw last quarter due to improvements in consumer credit.
Processed volume growth outside of the U.S.
grew 17% and that's also a slight increase over the fourth quarter.
In particular our European processed volume growth was in the teens a continuation of the growth rate that we saw throughout 2013.
Globally processed transaction growth was 14% and that was also up about 1 percentage point over what we saw as a growth rate in the fourth quarter driven by higher growth in the U.S.
and in Europe.
Looking forward let me first start with our long-term performance objectives for the 2013 to 2015 period.
We remain confident that our business can deliver an 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR which includes a modest contribution from pricing over the 3-year period and an at least 20% EPS CAGR.
These growth rates are on a constant currency basis and exclude new M&amp;A activities.
We also remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
Now just one other comment about our EPS CAGR objective which we said was based on a normalized tax rate that excluded the impact of several onetime benefits that we were able to achieve in 2012 which you will recall resulted in a pro forma EPS number of $21.44.
But after adjusting for our recent stock split you should now be modeling EPS growth beyond 2012 using a base of $2.14.
So now I'd like to share with you some thoughts about 2014.
With respect to net revenue we have signed as you just heard a significant number of deals over the last couple of years.
And as the new deals onboard they will provide a tailwind for 2014.
However we are also expecting a headwind from 1 portfolio conversion to a competitor.
As you all know back in 2012 we lost our portion of Chase's consumer credit portfolio.
And while we expected some attrition would occur in 2013 that did not happen.
We don't have any specifics on how these cards will migrate but we are now assuming an impact in 2014.
Given the size of this portfolio we can offset some but not all of this attrition with our wins and as we expect net revenue growth for 2014 to come in at the lower end of our 3-year range.
We also expect to return to more normal growth rates in rebates and incentives in the second and third quarter this year versus what we saw in 2013.
We anticipate total 2014 operating expenses to grow less than the 9% that we saw in 2013.
As we have always said any upside to top line growth may provide the opportunity to reinvest more back into the business as well as determine how much if any operating margin expansion we can deliver in 2014.
As I just mentioned the impact of new M&amp;A activities is not reflected in our long-term performance objectives.
At Investor Day last September I talked about how we are looking more actively at potential M&amp;A opportunities that address our strategic priorities and provide us with critical capabilities.
We're pleased that we recently completed the Provus and HomeSend deals both investments that add to our capabilities.
And they will contribute some revenue but together with their base expenses and our integration work we expect to see $0.01 to $0.02 dilution to our 2014 earnings per share figure.
We will continue to update you as we go forward on these numbers as well as on the impact of any additional M&amp;A activities we may have.
For your modeling purposes you should assume a full year tax rate of about 32% which does not recognize the impact of any discrete item such as what we've seen in the recent past.
Finally with respect to foreign exchange if rates remain similar to where they are today with the euro trading at about the 1.35 level and the Brazilian real at about the 2.42 level for the rest of the year the net impact of the euro and the real would essentially offset each other for full year 2014.
And as I mentioned earlier foreign exchange had a slight impact on our fourth quarter beyond adjusting for these 2 functional currencies that we typically call out.
Given the current volatility in the FX market especially with an appreciating U.S.
dollar and euro versus other currencies we're carefully managing those exposures but we could see some impact depending on how these currencies behave in 2014.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin our Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thank you Martina.
[Operator Instructions] Clifford? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little color on the progression in 2014 of the cross-border price increase? I think you mentioned still about 1 000 basis points of benefit on your cross-border revenue growth.
When does it start to anniversary? And is there any limiting impact from additional price increases on your cross-border revenue growth? So Chris we put the cross-border acquiring price increase in place in April 2013.
So you will see that basically anniversary in our -- also at the end of the first quarter of 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any additional pricing actions that could mitigate that? No.
I said as part of our long-term objectives you will only see some modest pricing.
So this is still a big one that is basically going to anniversary.
Our next question comes from Craig Maurer from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> The advertising and marketing can you just provide some additional color on what drove that number up in the fourth quarter what opportunities you saw? And does the Chase deal include the same kind of network separation as you're seeing from Visa? It's Ajay.
I'm not sure I understood the second part.
If you are talking about the Chase commercial deal and that's just a regular deal like we would do with any other institution in our commercial business.
So that's how that's done.
The part of our advertising and marketing actually the fourth quarter has been the maximum transactions occur across most parts of the world.
And we've been trying for some time to get our advertising and marketing to fit and match the right time periods for when it should be correlated to our transaction spend.
And it kind of depends how it works.
In some cases you get the right opportunities.
In others we didn't.
In this particular one we got a great deal of opportunity around the end of the year to sign up a few things to participate in activities in social media and physical media around the New Year in different places.
So it gave us a chance to put ourselves back into people's eyes and minds at the right time of the year.
That's kind of what that is about.
So it wasn't out of normal -- if you look at our fourth quarter spend on advertising and marketing.
We should be spending this kind of money to correlate back to the kind of revenues and transactions that happened in the fourth quarter gross revenues.
And let me just add a comment to 2014 because I'm sure everyone of you would like to know a little bit about the cadence of our A&amp;M spend.
And the cadence will be relatively similar to what you saw in 2013.
The only thing that we're trying to do and Ajay had already referenced that is maybe smooth out a little bit the first and the second quarter.
So you might see a little bit more in the first quarter when we're talking just a bit more taking it out of the fourth quarter.
The second and the third quarter should be from a cadence point of view very similar.
Your next question comes from Jason Kupferberg from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So can we just get a little bit color and clarity on the full year 2014 rebates? I mean do you think they'll be -- will they grow faster slower or about in line versus gross revs? And do you guys think you can grow U.S.
consumer credit in '14 with the Chase volumes coming off that you mentioned? Well -- so first of all with your last question we are obviously growing credit because otherwise we wouldn't be able to offset some of the losses that we might see from the Chase portfolio in 2014 right? That was in my prepared remarks.
What was your first question? On rebates and incentives in 2014.
Yes rebates and incentives.
So let me just tell you rebates and incentives we think that is -- from a cadence point of view it's going to go back much more normal to what we have seen prior to 2013 right? So in the second quarter and then the third quarter you see normalized growth rates.
It's very tough for us to be telling you what you should be thinking about as a percentage of growth revenues.
But I would -- when I look forward I would look -- it's something not too different to what you saw in 2013 which would also suggest that overall the annual growth rate is not too different for 2014.
Our next question comes from Bill Carcache from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> In Europe you guys are significantly outperforming one of your key competitors who's still operating under an association structure and it seems like you're able to offer much greater value to both banks and merchants given your much more innovative offerings.
Can you talk a little bit about your confidence and your outlook for market share gains in Europe and perhaps just give us some color around competitively how you feel you're positioned there? So we -- look we enjoy our position in Europe.
And I've said a few times that I actually consider Europe to be a decent growth market for our company even the developed markets of Western Europe primarily because of the relatively high levels of cash that still exists in some of those economies.
If you take out the Nordics where cash is actually very small.
If you come to Germany or France there's still an overwhelming majority that's in cash and those are very attractive markets.
We have a good position.
We've been gaining shares that's absolutely correct.
We're doing a lot of things with data analytics with contactless with fraud early warning systems with inControl.
And so all those help us win deals.
And now we're focused on trying to process more and more of the transactions in Europe as we go along.
So even this quarter our processed transactions grew by 14% or so in Europe in SEPA.
So that's a good thing for us.
And we're focused on that.
And a lot of the work we're doing with Provus and TREVICA are all aligned around that set aspect.
So between digital and advisors and data in addition to what we already do in our core business we have a decent line of sight to where Europe is going.
But Europe is not without its challenges.
It has regulatory challenges that are unique to the way Europe is constructed and the way it functions.
And I talked a little bit about those in the form of the EC legislation as well as this recent ruling by the AG [ph].
The AG ruling doesn't impact anything directly because the raise [ph] is already there.
But could that spill over tomorrow into some other way of looking at regulatory arbitrage or thinking in that space in Europe? Sure it could.
And that's something we are always conscious of.
And we're always trying to make sure that we work well within that environment.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe give us a little bit about that kind of give-and-take between the 2 pieces of the Chase relationship like how do you see the growth on the commercial side versus the -- kind of the risk of kind of deconsolidation on the consumer side? Tough to say because I really can't give you that much detailed information about one set of clients and books.
But you should know that Chase is a very very large consumer bank with a very large consumer portfolio.
And they've got a strong corporate banking business that's growing but there's no way that those 2 are comparable.
So I don't see us making up what we are losing in the consumer side if it goes away in 2014.
I have no way to estimate what will happen.
I'm kind of assuming it's going away.
And I've heard the earnings call that VISA had where they talked about getting it.
So I'm assuming that they're both thinking similarly that 2014 is the year that it goes from us to them.
Sidemark [ph] you're going to make up for that but it will help just as all the co-brands will help.
And there are co-brands that we haven't been able to announce because of certain circumstances with those retailers and those issuers which will all become clearer to you over the next few months.
So I'm hoping that we'll eventually come up in the right place.
But 2014 is going to be the year of transition.
We've tried to factor that in when Martina said that we think revenue could be at the lower end of our long-term guidance.
Now if it comes in better that'll be great because if the attrition is slower or these co-brands come on quicker that'll be great as well.
But typically our co-brands after we announce it takes somewhere between 1 year and 1.5 years to start onboarding and kicking in.
So there's a timeline in our business and that's what we are providing for.
Look underlying trends in our business in the U.S.
and elsewhere have been good in our fourth quarter.
Our growth revenue actually came in better than our plan.
And what happened is that we signed more deals and I'm actually happy to sign those deals.
And so that's what I'm thinking about this whole circumstance around how to think about where our revenues and our company is going over the next couple of years.
Our next question comes from Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on some of your macro discussion Ajay with -- when I look at the payments volume the purchase volume by region there's a decent slowing in pretty much every market except for Latin America.
And I mean I think you were suggesting that you thought you were seeing a little more strength incrementally.
I guess the January numbers do suggest that you see a pickup from the fourth quarter.
But do you think -- I mean given the slowdown that you see across the board in payment and purchase volume doesn't that suggest that the economy at best is stable and at worst maybe we're seeing a little bit of a global weakening? I actually don't see it that way.
I see the U.S.
as -- if you just look at the U.S.
as a whole if you look at the drags on U.S.
economic growth that contributed to whatever happened in 2013 and 2013 turned out to end in a stronger way than people expected.
So there were lots of drags a lot of drags from the sequester to all the other kinds of stuff that happened there.
So I don't see the U.S.
as being slowing in any way.
I see it improving.
Actually Europe showing signs of life as well.
Northern Europe even the U.K.
which 1 year ago people talked about as being in very difficult and dire circumstances has clearly showed a recovery in where it's headed.
That brings us to Asia.
And Asia is dominated by what happens between China Japan Australia and India.
And if you think about China -- yes China's growth has slowed but China's growth has slowed first in domestic expenditure which impacts us very little because we don't get to play in the domestic processing yet right? Japan is actually beginning to show signs of life.
Australia depends a great deal on what happens with China because Australia's economy relies a great deal on the exports into China.
And India is just India.
India is being India right now.
It's going through all that it's doing with its elections and all that's -- underlying it.
But India's economy is 2/3 consumption.
And that consumption is still growing.
And while China and India may be growing slower than in the past they're still growing in very attractive numbers beyond the 10.
So yes -- perhaps the question about slowdown you got to remember the number of days in the fourth quarter the number of processing days.
And Martina went a couple of times to explain that if you took out the impact of the smaller number of days and look at the normalized data you will find this kind of similar growth.
But if you went to Asia and you went back 4 quarters in Asia you would find Asia today is a little slower in PCE growth than it was 4 quarters ago.
That's what I'm addressing when talking to you.
I'm not addressing the specifics of the processed transactions because I think Martina addressed those a couple of times in her opening remarks.
Our next question comes from David Togut from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First Martina you said that OpEx would probably grow a little less than 9% this year.
Can you give us a sense of where you might have the most operating leverage this year? So David what we are doing is -- I didn't say a little less I actually said less than 9%.
There is a little bit of a difference on those kind of numbers.
And what we are really doing is as we said we opportunistically put some more money into the business in the third quarter and into the fourth quarter.
And when we look at our budget going forward we are not assuming that we are going to have a repeat of that.
But as we have said before depending on how our top line will develop right and our top line is subject to what we just discussed on the potential migration of cards from the Chase portfolio we might be putting extra money into the company if we can do it okay? But it all depends on how we see the top line developing and the bottom.
So at this point in time the budget basically just said operating expenses will grow less than 9%.
Our next question comes from Darrin Peller from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just to dive a little deeper on the underlying trends in volume and we saw in the fourth quarter the trend shifts from about 9% down to 7.5% and back to 9% again you're saying in January.
If you could just explain a little bit about what's driving that first? And then really going forward I mean we're seeing underlying standards loosen a little more at the banks which I think should support more credit growth going forward as well.
And when you couple that with the trends you're talking about with all these deals does that -- is that helpful for you on pricing? If Chase comes off I imagine the pricing on that given the size was a little bit tougher than what you're bringing on is that a fair way to look at that? And then just one quick follow-up what drove other revenues up 22%? Okay.
Let me take the easy one first which is what drove other revenues up.
Other revenues were predominantly driven by our advisors' revenues as well as Access Prepaid.
So the other things that we are really focusing on from a service point of view and Ajay had already said something that we are really focusing on putting advisors out on the globe.
And you're actually seeing a really great benefit from that and that's why you see a 20% increase in other revenues going up.
That tends to be fee-based revenues just to be clear.
Yes yes.
Not volume or transaction-based this is all fee-based revenues right? Darrin you are asking us one tough question on the underlying trends okay? In terms of really figuring out why a quarter moves up or down from 1 or 2 percentage points is pretty tough to do.
All we can say is when we triangulated with the data that Ajay was already referencing from a GDP and from a PCE number that we actually felt that the fourth quarter both in the United States as well as in Europe was pretty healthy okay? So even though we had some move in the growth numbers it was pretty healthy.
And you could see that on the credit side and you could see that on the debit side.
Now Latin America Asia Pacific we know that there was some impact given what is happening from a China production point of view.
And hopefully if the world gets into a better footing that will resolve itself.
But it's very tough to be putting that down to very specific changes.
Our next question comes from Dan Perlin from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just quickly on the G&amp;A you mentioned Ajay MasterPass and tokenization were 2 of the key reasons for that to be up.
But there's a lot of incremental people that have put into that and that seems to be disproportionate for those kinds of technologies.
So I'm wondering is this back half kind of ramp let's call it $161 million or so is that a function of also putting more feet on the street with these deals that you've done in order to get the local market processing? So we are adding people in different areas.
It's not just in MasterPass and tokenization although that did add a fair number of engineers and development teams.
But we are adding people in sales.
We're adding people in client delivery.
We've added people in product management.
And when we open new countries -- China has people in the control functions so they open in a way that is well handled for the future.
That kind of -- all those things add up.
We have opened a number of new offices around the world as well over the last couple of years.
All that tends to add up.
What we're really doing is adding people who bring to us a different perspective on how we look at our business.
So we're adding people not just from banking and consulting although that still is a good source of people we're also adding people from consumer product companies and from technology companies and from marketing organizations and from government background and experience.
So when you pull all of that together that's the kind of people we're adding.
It's not anything specific in the fourth quarter or in the third quarter or the second quarter.
We've been adding people consistently over the last couple of years as we've tried to create the ability for us to have the right footprint and the right infrastructure to go into so many new areas.
So when you see us talk about advisors and generating fee revenues from advisors I can't get them without a certain quantum of people to have feet on the street as well as people who are doing analytics.
When you talk about Access Prepaid Worldwide that didn't exist in our book a couple of years back.
So when you sort of add all that together our company is changing and morphing.
And in that change and morph what I'm trying to do is to maintain our operating margin at a very healthy level but put money back into building the skills capabilities and technologies that is going to be required for this digital physical convergence combined with the data opportunity that our company is talking about.
So that's kind of what I'm trying to do.
Our next question comes from Kevin McVeigh from Macquarie.
I wonder if could you give us a sense just the uptick in data breaches how that's impacting the value proposition as you go out to clients and ultimately what's been the feedback on that? Great question.
Right now fortunately I haven't seen a great deal of impact coming out of that.
And as we just told you our first few days of January looked like they're actually a little better than the quarter that went by or similar.
It's a little better in some cases.
But there's no one specific data breach that causes trouble.
It's an ongoing feeling that consumers get about their safety and the security of their information.
And these recent data breaches are not just about cards they were about other consumer data tens of millions of stuff that went away.
And that creates its own angst in everyone's mind.
Fortunately our technology the technology of our competitor networks combined with some of the great tools that the banks and merchants have built along with us over the years has meant that people are trying to keep fraud under control and trying to help the consumer.
So I'm really -- that's less of the issue.
I'm far more concerned about getting the right things done so we get ahead of this as we go forward.
Otherwise they're going to have this keep coming.
And it -- the more often it happens the worse it feels.
So that's what I'm looking at.
And it's not about who did what and it's not about finger-pointing and it's not about I said this and they said that.
I really want to get past all that nonsense to the real stuff which is we need to get EMV in place.
In January Chris McWilton issued a letter to all our issuers and the merchant partners saying "We are standing by our deadline." We need to get this going and everyone needs to be on the bandwagon.
Banks need to be there merchants need to be there governments are clearly there.
We need to get the networks there and the acquirers there.
And I think there is a lot of progress on that front.
I know a large number of the big merchants are very committed to -- they have new terminals and new terminalization.
I know that the terminal manufacturers have geared up for that.
I know that a number of the banks have begun to issue chip cards already.
You can see people are making all the right efforts.
This should only redouble our desire to get this done quickly.
That's what I'm talking about.
Our next question comes from Bryan Keane from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the Chase migration.
Has Chase told you guys how much to expect to come off and when? Because I'm just trying to figure out how much...
No.
No.
Bryan no.
That's why we said that we are assuming some impact in 2014.
And I actually said that we assume that something would have happened in 2013 and it did not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just how much are you expecting in 2014 like 2 to 4 points of revenue or how much? Good try.
Good try.
I can give you marks for trying.
Our next question comes from Chris Donat from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask -- getting back to the fraud issue.
With your experience and what you've seen around the world the move to EMV how significant is that in reducing the -- either the sorts of things you've had in the United States or just really the fraud that existed in places like Europe before they went to EMV or even Canada? Very significant.
It's very significant to the views of the impact of breaches.
Look every time a chip card is used it uses the technology inside to create a unique data point for that transaction.
That kind of bolsters the security and the certainty of that transaction.
That's why chip transactions are virtually impossible to fraudulently replicate.
And of course because the darn chip is there it makes it hard to counterfeit the card in the first place.
So if I say it differently EMV would not prevent a data breach.
I mean look in the Target case there were stuff with cards there were stuff with data that happened in the Target system.
EMV is not going to protect from that data breach.
What it will do it makes that -- any data stolen much much much less valuable to a fraudster because it's tough to counterfeit the card and it's almost impossible to duplicate all the unique data that flows for that transaction to get approved.
So it's kind of got double layers of protection inside it.
That's what it's about.
But you need to understand that while it's good in addressing counterfeit fraud it's not the only solution a lot of single solution to drive security in the payment space.
There's going to be a ton of things that will happen with how data is secured how it's kept how it's encrypted in motion and address things that we all do things that very often -- you cannot expect small merchants to do in the same way or smaller acquirers to do in the same way.
That's one of the reasons why in the future with digital technology tokenization is actually a key because in tokenization that data doesn't even go to be stored in that location.
It's encrypted with a key that only the networks and the banks recognize.
And therefore the concept of that data line in the weakest link in the chain will go away.
So it's both EMV tokenization fraud tools all the things that are going on.
It's not one thing but EMV is a really big arrow in the quiver.
Our next question comes from Ken Bruce from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You've pointed out on a number of occasions that you're moving into processing.
I would like to ask specifically what you see as the strategic imperative and the financial implications beyond the EPS solution that Martina mentioned as you are looking at the issuer and acquirer processing? So the strategic implications really are back to what Gary and all of us talked about it on the Investor Day.
If you -- of course obviously if you switched the transaction as you know we only get to do a little around 50% of our transactions.
And I'd love to be able to get beyond that because as you switch the transaction first of all it will be much stronger position in the system.
Second you'll see all aspects of it coming and going.
And if you -- in addition even if you don't switch it but you see it pass through because you're either helping the acquirers process or helping the issuers process then you'd still have a lot of data that you can then use for developing fraud scores behavioral scores the advisor's fee revenue all that kind of stuff.
So getting in front or behind of the transaction is useful for someone like us.
I don't want to be just a payment switch that's not the business that long term can give us the ability.
And by long term I mean out a decade.
I'm not -- I'm trying to be more than that.
I want to be using our data to create the right revenue streams from data.
I want to be able to use in the digital world all the things we can do from before during and after the payment.
You can't do all that if you aren't a little smarter about processing.
So that's what we're trying to do.
Now in countries like the United States and Brazil we process almost all of our transactions.
However when you get into some of the emerging markets and of course as you know in China we don't process domestic transactions.
When you get to places in the emerging markets or the high-growth markets in Europe that's where these things can help us.
And as you know SEPA opened up the ability for us to reenter the processing market in the developed countries of Europe which we are trying our best to do and they're making very steady progress on that as well.
So it's a long way to answer -- that being in the center of the transaction and being there before during and after the transaction being on both sides of it are very very useful for this company.
And just add to this we already own a processor in Poland which is called TREVICA and now we are owning the processor the independent processor in Turkey Provus.
And when you look at these processes on an isolated basis of course they have a lower margin profile than our business.
But when we found that all the work that we did around TREVICA in the last couple of years that that really helps our main business and that we are able to win deals that the deals are more sticky and that we're actually able to give more services to the client because we actually saw the transaction.
So we really think from a strategic and from a financial point of view this is a very good way to go.
Before we take the next question I just got an email from somebody in our fraud area.
And going back to Chris' question about how significant has EMV been in reducing fraud when it's been adopted? We have seen anywhere between 60% and 80% decrease in counterfeit fraud after EMV has been installed in markets.
Our next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Can you just clarify the Chase consumer portfolio you're talking about the old continental co-brand program or it's something else? No.
We're talking about the entire Chase consumer portfolio.
Continental co-brand is different.
Continental co-brand actually has a lot -- has cards that are issued on MasterCard are protected for the life of those cards.
That's different.
But when Chase did the relationship that they did with VISA on the network at that time one of the items that VISA and Chase both announced was this migration of the consumer book inside of Chase the rest of it to our competitor.
It didn't happen in 2013.
That's what we're referring to.
Our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I don't want to -- mean to beat the dead horse but I just want to make sure I understand the Chase assumption that you guys are making.
For 2014 you're basically assuming some piece of that goes away and there may be residual impacts as we look out to 2015 and onwards? No.
I'm assuming that it goes away in 2014.
And by the way who did you call a dead horse? Our next question comes from Tom McCrohan from Janney.
Research Division</strong> A close look on EMV we -- I think people are aware that it reduces counterfeit fraud but fraud migrates to the online channel.
I'm just wondering if the tokenization efforts that you're working on are they going to be packaged with any EMV implementation? Because currently it doesn't really address that and that's what I think merchants are kind of digging their heels on.
They want some sun or line of sight into protecting the online as well.
Yes absolutely that's what we're doing with tokenization and that's exactly why we're at it.
And we're actually hopeful that it will all get done and start being out there in the marketplace as we said sometime in 2014 and then it'll keep rolling along from there.
And it's going to accept everything from secured elements to SIM-based solutions to other kind of efforts to get secured information into MasterPass and the tokenization.
We are very committed to that.
Our last question comes from Don Fandetti from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Ajay just to kind of wrap up on the strategic side.
We've seen Apple and Amazon talk a little bit more about payments.
I was just curious what your perspective is how that might change up the payment landscape and is it sort of in line with your expectation and timeline of what those companies might be doing? Sure.
Don thank you.
I actually -- it's actually what I expected.
You all know that they're all thinking about this.
And the fact that Google is out there first and actually doing something doesn't mean that the others weren't working on it.
They're all working on it.
And they're all trying to figure out what the right role to play for their respective strengths and weaknesses are as this payment opportunity evolves.
And it's not just payments.
When you talk to most of them they will tell you it's about the before during and after the transaction.
So Google tends to think about it as a metric to look at enhancing their advertising and consumer outreach business not really as a payments business.
Others think differently.
And everybody comes in from a different perspective.
So that's why what we're trying to do is to partner with as many of them as we can.
And we've managed I think well to shift the dialogue from one of distant mediation to one of partnership because we bring some very strong assets to the table in terms of what we haven't possess and also what we're investing in.
And so that's kind of where they're going with it.
That's our -- I'm not the least surprised.
I believe it's the right thing to do anyway with all the strong players in the digital world.
We'll have a role to play in some way to enable payments for their consumers.
It's the right thing to do.
So let me leave you with a few closing thoughts.
We had a very good 2013.
We delivered on our expectations.
We saw strong revenue and EPS growth.
We continued to invest back into our products our technology and our people.
Overall it seems like the economic environment is improving especially in the U.S.
and Europe.
I understand that emerging markets are going through a bumpy patch which we will continue to watch.
But remember they are starting in a much better place than they were in previous crises.
And so I believe that over a period of time that should stabilize.
Now looking ahead for the next couple of years the world generally seems to be headed towards a better economic cycle than what we have seen in the recent past.
And I hope those are not famous last words "That's kind of where my head is." Our business continues to have strong momentum as it shows in our GDV and our gross revenue numbers in the fourth quarter.
We are focused on driving the conversion from cash to electronic payments and at the same time very very focused on creating solutions and working with governments and other partners to advance financial inclusion.
Investing in our core solutions remains important.
So we're making investments in new products as well in new services and new capabilities all of which will help expand our presence in the area around payments as well not just the payments but before during and after.
And for sure we will continue our efforts to ensure that we make the best possible impact on ensuring safety and security for everyone in the physical payment space while carrying those competencies into the digital world as the 2 invariably converge over the next few years.
So thank you for your support and thank you for joining us on today's call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MasterCard First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Adrianna [ph] and I’ll be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Barbara Gasper.
Ms.
Gasper you may begin.
Thank you Adrianna [ph].
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for a discussion about our first quarter financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer as well as Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered for the queue.
This morning’s earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at mastercard.com.
These documents have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one week through May 8.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today’s earnings release I need to remind everyone that today’s call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard’s future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments here today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our most recent SEC filing.
With that I will now turn the call over to our Ajay Banga.
Ajay.
Thanks Barbara and good morning everybody.
For the first quarter we are very pleased to deliver strong results with net revenue growth of 14%.
That’s driven by a healthy growth in gross dollar volume by process transactions and cross-border volume.
And this combined with our operating expense growth of 12% is what’s helped us drive EPS growth of 18%.
So as usual let’s start by the global economic trend starting with the US.
Our first quarter SpendingPulse data showed US retail sales ex auto growing at 2.8% down from the 3.9% growth in the fourth quarter of last year.
And I guess that reflects the harsh winter weather conditions that affected parts of the US as well as later Easter.
But on a positive note consumers continue to spend more.
And so interesting sectors like airlines lodging restaurants furniture and furnishings and that reflectively increased consumer confidence we saw in the quarter.
And we’ve got to continue to watch these indicators in the coming months.
The good news is that despite the headwinds on consumer spending our US business in the first quarter saw process transactions and gross dollar volume growth higher than the fourth quarter of 2013.
In Europe the environment continues along a path of slow growth with positive PPE projection for the year although those are slightly down from last quarter’s forecast.
Across the region consumer sentiment and business sentiment have continued to improve and our MasterCard’s total Europe in volume growth for the first quarter was in the mid-teens and process transaction growth in the low 20s a bit higher than the fourth quarter driven by growth in a number of countries including Russia Sweden and Turkey as well as continued healthy growth in the UK.
In Latin America the overall consumer confidence is mixed across the region.
Brazil’s consumer confidence starting to stabilize in March.
And our SpendingPulse showed a 5.9% growth in consumer spending there up slightly from last year’s fourth quarter.
In Mexico consumer confidence also showed some signs of stabilizing and I think is expected to improve.
Our business in the region continues to do well with GDV and process transaction growth for the first quarter in the mid to high teens.
In Asia Pacific consumer confidence like in Latin American remain mixed with some evidence of a slight slowdown in consumer spending during the first quarter.
But in South Korea China and Southeast Asia they actually saw improvement in confidence levels.
Interestingly business sentiment was up across the region.
And our business in the Asia Pacific Middle East Africa continues to do well with process transaction growth about 30% and GDV growth in the high teens for the first quarter.
So overall the US and Western Europe seem to be continuing to move along a slope up through economic recovery.
While there has been increasing optimism of our Europe I think those recent geopolitical tensions could have an impact in consumer and business sentiment.
And growth in Asia Pacific and Latin America as you know is affected by among other things the continued global economic uncertainty but also by domestic concerns like labor market conditions and consumer sentiment and spending and elections and all of which we’ll continue to watch.
So before we move on to our recent business highlights a couple of quick words about legal and regulatory matters.
First at the end of March the US District Court of Appeals reversed Judge Leon’s July decision on the Federal Reserve implementation of the Durbin Amendment.
So absent further appeal the regulation remains as it was originally implemented by the Fed.
The appeals court decision is good for the industry for a couple of reasons including because it clears away one of the uncertainties in the market related to EMV adoption.
Second with regards to the proposed European interchange legislation you’ve heard us say before that this legislation offers us both opportunities and challenges.
A vote by the full parliament occurred in April which added among other things the merchant card interchange to the scope of the legislation.
Separately a battle review of the legislation will start in late Feb by the Council of Ministers and the European Commission will also need to weigh in.
Will actively engages all these parties there is still opportunity for the proposed language to undergo changes and we continue to expect that adoption is probably most likely in the first half of 2015.
So finally something about Russia and the geopolitical events going on there.
Over the past few years we have made a lot of good progress in Russia although it represents only a little over 2% of our total revenue.
The sanctions have had a significant impact in that market not as much from an immediate financial standpoint for MasterCard but rather on the ground where the Russian government is working to implement legislation to change their domestic payments market structure.
And we are still assessing all the elements of this new law.
I mean there are provisions there that I believe would create serious complications for the way that we can operate in that market.
One of those provisions these are the requirements for on-soil switching capabilities.
Now with our distributed network structure as a foundation we’ve actually moved further towards an environment that can be flexible in terms of on-soil requirements.
In fact earlier this year we launched a 24 by 7 operation center in Russia.
What we have in place today does not I believe meet all of the new Russian requirements although we’re still studying those but we believe may actually provide some of the ingredients that will be necessary.
We’re also very concerned about the new collateral requirements in the law which we continue to look at.
At the end of the day we’re going to need to conform to this new Russian law as well as international law when we operate our business in the Russian market just as it is in other markets.
So overall we expect a small impact from this current Russian situation on our results for 2014.
But the situation is fluid and it’s difficult for us to be certain numerically about the impact for 2015 and beyond at least until the law is clearer and we can work our way through those details which will take some months to happen.
So let’s move on to some of our recent business activities.
During the quarter we signed a number of new agreements that let us support the expansion of our business around the world.
And let me run through a few quick examples.
SEB Baltics [ph] which is a division of the SEB group.
SEB group is a key MasterCard relationship in the Nordics.
And SEB Baltics [ph] is in the process of converting their entire debit and credit card portfolio to MasterCard.
So as a result we expect to be the leading payments brand in the Baltics by the end of this year.
Additionally Svenska Handelsbanken the second largest retail bank in Sweden was big in converting all of their consumer credit debit co-brand and installment card across all their market including Nordic Baltics UK Netherlands and Poland.
This deal actually represents the largest conversion in Europe since we won the business with Swedbank and will make MasterCard both the exclusive partner of Handelsbanken but also the leading debit brand in Sweden which as you know is one of the countries with the lowest use of cash in the world.
Kenya Commercial Bank East Africa’s largest bank announced that it’ll issue 5 million debit prepaid and credit MasterCard products over the next five years.
That builds in the partnerships we’ve announced over the last couple of years in Kenya in both Nakumatt Supermarket and equity banks and more than doubles the number of our cards in that market.
Now as we said before over the last several years we’ve been focused on investing in deepening our merchant relationships as well.
And you’ve read that Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club announced recently that they will start converting their co-brand credit cards to MasterCard starting this summer.
And starting in early 2015 Target will be converting their Target branded credit cards to MasterCard.
Additionally their entire REDcard portfolio which adds in their private label cards will be enabled with our ENB [ph] solution and will support chip and PIN transactions in their stores.
We are delighted to be chosen obviously as Target’s ENB [ph] solution partner and for their faith in MasterCard as quoted from their press release that they will quote "aggressively move forward to bring enhanced technology with the most secure payment product available".
In addition we’re also expanding our relationship with Wal-Mart beyond the US to work with some of their Latin American affiliates.
So in Mexico their Sam’s and Suburbia co-brand cards have been converted to MasterCard one from a competitor the other from a private label store card.
In Chile they’ve recently started to migrate their private label cards to co-branded MasterCard and that Wal-Mart local supermarket brand is called Lider is one of the largest in that country.
That’s the one we are migrating.
One additional example of the progress we’ve made in expanding our merchant relationships is in Japan with Amazon.com.
We just recently launched a MasterCard co-brand card.
That card provides the card holder an opportunity to earn rewards when shopping on Amazon’s website or at any MasterCard accepting merchant as well as free shipping through Amazon Prime.
So moving on to the mobile front the convergence in the physical and digital world is reflected in the continuing shift in payments to digital form and more interestingly new payment flows.
It represents one of the most significant changes in our space since I think the introduction of plastic payment cards many years ago.
And over the last several years we’ve been developing a foundation to support this shift by establishing products services and standards to address the needs of this new ecosystem.
So you’ve heard all of us talk about many of these in the past.
MasterPass digital wallet is one example.
Our efforts around organization another example.
But we’re beginning to build on that and for example last quarter we announced our acquisition of C-SAM a leading provider of mobile wallet software.
The idea is that this would help us increase the base of the deployment of our MasterPass wallet as well as the development of additional services.
Customers first take [ph] offers for example loyalty and rewards for example.
So when it comes to mobile we are technology agnostic.
We support implementations based on different market models around the world.
One model puts payment credentials on the phone.
So for example we recently announced the collaboration between Trevica which is our European provider of processing services.
It’s a business we own.
And three mobile operators will represent about 80% of the mobile subscribers in Germany – Deutsche Telekom Telefonica Deutscheland and Vodafone.
Any bank in Germany that connects to Trevica will be able to provision their card to the phones provided by any of these three mobile operators.
A different model is to put payment credentials in the cloud as compared to on the phone.
And for that we will soon publish technical specs supporting what we announced a little while ago which is postcard innovation which will make it easier to roll out contactless NFC based mobile payments in markets that want alternatives to storing payment data on the phone.
For a final note MasterPass momentum continues.
We’re now in seven countries – the US UK Canada Australia New Zealand Italy and China with more than 40 000 merchants accepting the wallet.
In addition which I think is really interesting MasterPass will be available soon as an in app option so that it can be selected within a mobile shopping app eliminating the need for the consumer to have to enter payment card information of any type to make a purchase.
So with that I’m going to run it over to Martina for a detailed update on our financial results and on our operational metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of our slide deck where you see the as-reported as well as the FX-adjusted growth rates.
All of my comments pertain to the FX-adjusted figures which are essentially the same as the as-reported numbers due to the strength of the euro offsetting the weakness of the Brazilian real.
As Ajay said we are very pleased with our strong performance this quarter which we were able to deliver in spite of the mixed economic environment.
Net revenue growth of 14% combined with operating expenses growth of 11% resulted in net income growth of 14%.
EPS growth was 18% and share repurchases contributed $0.03 per share.
During the first quarter we repurchased just over 21.3 million shares at a cost of approximately $1.7 billion.
Through April 24 we purchased a little more than 6.2 million shares at a cost of approximately $450 million and we now have $1.5 billion remaining under the current authorization.
We will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
Now turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations was $568 million.
Additionally at the end of the quarter we completed an inaugural debt offering of $1.5 billion and we ended up the quarter with cash cash equivalent and other liquid investments of about $6.6 billion.
So let me turn to Page 4.
And here you can see the operational metrics for the first quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 14% on a local currency basis.
And that’s essentially the same as last quarter.
US GDV grew 9% and our US debit growth was also 9% again same as last quarter.
On the private side after some difficult quarters in consumer credit we are turning the corner with growth of 6% an increase from last quarter.
Also commercial credit growth was in the mid-teens up from the low-teens last quarter.
And outside of the US volume growth was 16% on a local currency basis.
And this continues to be driven by APMEA and Latin America with more than 15% growth and solid mid-teens growth in Europe.
Cross-border volume grew 17% on a local currency basis just slightly down from the 18% growth that we saw in the fourth quarter.
APMEA grew more than 20% with Europe and Latin America in the high-teens.
And countries contributing to good cross-border volume growth this quarter include Australia China Russia Italy and Sweden.
And we also saw some deceleration in Latin America and in Canada.
Turning to Page 5 here you see process transaction.
They grew almost 14% globally to more than $9.8 billion.
We saw double digit growth in most regions with particular strengths in APMEA and Europe.
And globally the number of cards grew 8% to just over 2 billion MasterCard and Maestro branded cards.
So let me turn to Page 6 for some insights on a few of our revenue line items.
Domestic assessments grew 8% while worldwide GDV grew 14%.
And then the gap between these two growth rates is 6 PPT [ph] which is driven primarily by the contribution of higher growth outside the US with lower than average revenue yield.
Also many of these non-US markets fall into the category of emerging markets where the growth of the ATM transactions is often higher than POS transactions.
Cross-border volume fees grew 17% in line with cross-border volume growth.
And when you drill down into the detail 10 percentage points of pricing the majority of which lays zapped in this quarter was essentially offset by a higher mix of intra-European activity.
Transaction processing fee grew 14% in line with the 14% growth in process transactions I just spoke about.
And overall as I said earlier net revenue growth was 14% growth both on an as-reported and FX-adjusted basis as the impact of the euro and the real offset each other.
Beyond those two currencies we had a roughly 2 PPT headwind from the weakening of other local currencies such as the Russian ruble the Canadian dollar the Australian dollar and the Turkish lira mostly in the domestic assessment in cross-border revenue categories.
And moving on to Page 7; here you can see that total operating expenses were up 11% in the quarter as it continued investing back into the business.
In addition I’d like to point out two other items that contributed to this growth.
First there was a 2 PPT impact due to the rebalancing of our quarterly cadence of A&amp;M away from Q4.
And second there was an almost 2 PPT impact due to acquisition.
Also D&amp;A increased 19% as we begin to see the impact of our growing levels of capital expenditures.
This primarily reflects investments and technology supporting initiatives like Priceless Cities and MasterCard.
Turning to Slide 8; let’s discuss what we have seen in April through this past Monday.
Each of our business drivers were flat or higher compared to the first quarter.
The numbers through April 28 are as follows – globally our cross-border volumes grew about 17% the same as our first quarter growth rate.
While US cross-border was down slightly rest abroad was a bit better driven by Europe.
In the US our processed volume grew 11% up about 2% from what we saw last quarter due to the continued improvement in both consumer and commercial credit.
Process volume growth outside the US grew 16%.
That’s essentially the same as the first quarter.
Our European processed volume growth was in the mid-teens; again the same as what we saw in the first quarter despite some deceleration in Russia.
And globally process transaction growth was 14% the same as what we saw in the first quarter.
Looking forward let me start with our long term performance objectives for the 2013 to 2015 periods.
We continue to believe that our business can deliver an 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR and at least 20% EPS CAGR over this period.
These rates are on a constant currency basis and exclude new M&amp;A activities.
We also remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
Since we first introduced these performance targets back in September of 2012 a number of things have happened in the payments space.
Three interesting and relatively recent developments are – one while we learned about the loss of the Chase portfolio in late 2012 we are only now in the process of working through that deconversion.
However you can already see our progress on winning new deals particularly in the US consumer credit space which shows up very nicely in our US credit metrics.
Two; the current geopolitical tensions around the Russia situation.
And three the continued evolution of the European payments industry regulation.
We expect minimal impact in 2014 from either the Russia situation or the European regulation.
Looking ahead Russia will be complicated to work through.
While that market currently represents a little over 2% of our revenue it’s unclear today how developments there will impact us over the next two to three years.
With respect to the European regulation like all other regulatory actions that we’ve faced over time it will create challenges for the payments space.
But as in other cases it will also open up new opportunities for those who are innovative and competitive.
And we will look for ways to take advantage of that.
We are monitoring each of these situations closely but after weighing a number of factors we are still confident about being able to deliver on our long term commitments.
That said remember these objectives exclude M&amp;A activities and since we’ve done a number of deals our as-reported results will include the impact of those.
So let me now share with you some more specific thoughts about 2014.
Over the past several months we have announced four acquisitions spanning the processing mobile and loyalty spaces.
Therefore I’m updating the EPS dilution in our expected as-reported results for full year 2014 from the $0.01 to $0.02 that I mentioned on our last earnings call to $0.06 to $0.08.
The quarterly impact will ramp up over the course of the year and the timing of the deal closings could affect the total dilution as well as the quarterly impact.
We will continue to update you as we go forward about the potential impact of any additional M&amp;A activity.
Turning specifically to net revenue let me highlight three points.
First Q1 growth came in a bit higher than expected; however we are still forecasting to come in at the low end of our three-year range for full year 2014 excluding M&amp;A and at the constant currency.
That includes some small impact from the Russian situation as well as the attrition that we expect from Chase.
Second we still have no definitive schedule from Chase and why deconversions have started a bit slower than we originally expected.
We continue to believe most of the attrition will occur in the latter half of this year with some continuation into 2015.
And third our new acquisitions are expected to contribute up to an additional 1 PPT to our as-reported net revenue growth.
On the operating expense front similar to net revenue we haven’t changed our view at all about expense growth from what we’ve said in January.
However when you now add in the impact of acquisitions the as-reported growth rate will be in the low double digits.
Growth in D&amp;A will continue to accelerate beyond what we have seen in the past likely in the 25% range due to our higher level of capital expenditures as well as the impact of amortizing intangible assets related to acquisitions.
As a reminder you will need add into your models roughly $30 million over the balance of the year to account for the interest expense associated with the inaugural debt offering that we did in late March.
And again for modeling purposes you should continue to assume a full year tax rate of about 32% which does not recognize the impact of the discrete items.
And finally with respect to FX in 2014 you need to think about it in two pieces.
First remember that when we talk about constant currency we’re talking about the impact from our functional currencies besides the US dollar.
If those rates remain similar to where they are today so that’s the euro trading at the 138 level and the Brazilian real at the 224 level for the rest of the year the net impact of the euro and the real would be a slight tailwind for the full year.
As I mentioned earlier the FX impact of these two currencies was minimal in the first quarter due to the strength of the euro offset by the weakness of the real.
Further beyond the functional currency impact of the euro and the real they have already seen a 2 PPT headwinds-to-net revenue growth in the first quarter from other currencies depreciating against the US dollar and the euro primarily.
While we are carefully managing those exposures we have assumed some impact for the rest of the year.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Martina.
We’re now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
In order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) And our first question comes from Dave Koning from Baird.
Go right ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning.
And great job.
I guess my question is just cross-border you mentioned the price increase that lapsed.
Should we expect now if we have high-teens cross-border growth to generate high single digit revenue growth so about a 10% a disconnect between the two for the rest of the year? Yeah.
I mean I’ve said that the pricing that we have put in last April in 2013 is pretty much lapping – almost all of it is lapping at this point in time.
So you should expect that what’s happening between the cross-border volume fees as well as the cross-border volume growth itself should be much closer in range.
The impact – it has continued to be impacted of course by two things – one the mix of the intra-European travel; and two by local currency as we’re still seeing and beaconing in foreign exchange rates versus the euro and the US dollar.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Dan Perlin from RBC Capital Markets.
Go right ahead sir.
LLC</strong> Thanks.
So the question I have I guess is the success you guys are starting to have in the current pace of kind of the co-branded card portfolios in the United States for credit I’m just wondering how is it that you’re differentiating yourself here in that environment? I know that your competitor recently announced that they’re going to drop I think 50% of their operating rules and I’m just wondering are you guys like cumbersome in that respect are you closer to these retailers? And just generally what is – I guess what is allowing you to differentiate yourself right now? Thanks.
So I guess – I’m not quite sure what the competitors are doing in that space.
We have already worked our operating rules down actually quite some time ago – a couple of months back three four months back towards the end of last year.
I’m actually not aware of exactly what the others are planning to do so I’m not going to comment on a comparison.
But I’m pretty confident that we aren’t winning our business based on operating rules only.
We win our business based on analytics and capabilities around those.
We’ve built our – we build our business based on what we do in terms of acceptance.
We build our business based on the kind of marketing and co-programs we do.
We build it based on relationships.
We – but of course we build it based on pricing and that’s always the thing that everybody looks at.
So it’s a mix of all those things.
And to me the last few periods of months when this entre issue with Target happened actually has opened a whole new set of discussions around EMV and chips and signature and PIN and tokenization and we think that we represent a good thought process in that space.
And so all these things put together I think are helping us win business.
Now we don’t win every deal we bid for don’t get me wrong.
We – and these are still going to be singles and doubles.
But – and I said that a year or two ago but we’re doing them consistently and steadily and we’ll win some we won’t win the others but that’s one of the ways for us to rebuild our position in the consumer credit business in the US in addition to what we’re doing with our bank partners where we are little by little winning deals in that growth area of that credit book too.
So it’s kind of a mixed bag of what we are doing.
I wouldn’t put it all down on any one silver bullet.
I wish life were that simple but it isn’t.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
And our next question comes from Tien-tsin Huang from J.P.
Morgan.
Go right ahead sir.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Just a follow up to that last question.
On the Target front I’m curious was – did your EMV solution cause you to win that or are there other factors behind it? And then as a follow on or a bigger picture question do you think this EMV push could actually drive some brand flips? Thanks.
Tien-tsin I – you will have to ask Target why they gave us all the business.
But at the end of the day again I believe it is a mix of things.
And I wouldn’t rely openly on any one thing because I don’t think any merchant or any bank goes based on any one item.
It’s the mix of things we bring to the party that allows us to win and in other times they will lose because you don’t bring the right mix to that party.
So I’ve kind of got my feet firmly on the ground about this issue.
I – we’ve got two of the largest retailers in the US between Wal-Mart and Sam’s on the one end and Target now but it’s kind of – it’s a win one by one at a time.
So I wouldn’t conclude too much either one way or the other unless you ask Target and they give you a different answer.
We’re just very excited to be their partner because I see in them having gone through what they’ve gone through the desire to really make a big difference.
And that’s useful for somebody like us who also is trying to grow in that space.
So that’s kind of what’s going on in these wins.
Will you get a chance to get more flips? I don’t know yet.
I honestly don’t know.
I’m still focused on the singles and doubles and just keeping my head down and trying to win deals.
Next question please operator.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Chris Donat from Sandler O’Neill.
Go right ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I wanted to ask a follow up on the Target and the chip and PIN enablement.
Is that something that – in the United States chip and PIN isn’t – entering PINs is not something I think US consumers are comfortable doing.
So is this more giving Target the optionality that if consumers do want that level of security they have it or is it a blanket for everything? Can you just help us understand where that fits in? Sure.
Sure.
Sure.
The whole EMV migration is going to depend a little bit on the manner in which this rolls out.
The chip cards will definitely be coming in.
I mean look a number of issuers are already issuing chip cards for their overseas travel.
And I have – my number may be wrong in the head.
It’s a month or two old but I do recollect somewhere between 6 million and 8 million cards but I might be a little off the number – already issued that are chip enabled for banks – by banks to individuals who travel.
I personally use those as well.
Our entire corporate card portfolio in MasterCard for our employees is chip-enabled.
In some cases it’s chip and PIN like our corporate card.
And in others like my personal card its chip and signature.
The – you will find that different models of this will emerge or appear over time depending on the adoption of PIN terminals or the point of sale depending on the banks’ concerns about different kinds of losses in their loss book and the advantages and disadvantages of those.
And then finally and most importantly it’ll depend on consumer behavior.
And so it’s a mix of those three.
And in all these cases while we are going to enable chip and PIN as you know we’ve even incented for people to have chip and PIN.
But at the end of the day we will work with what works in that environment.
And that’s what we’re trying to do.
Next question operator.
And our next question comes from Jason Kupferberg from Jefferies.
Go right ahead.
Thank you guys.
Ajay just hoping you could just drill a little bit more into the Russia legislative process to the extent you guys have some insight into some of the milestones or next steps I think you said it’ll probably be a multi-month process until it fully plays out.
So if you can help us understand that a little bit.
And in conjunction with that just how are you guys sort of probability weighting some of these I guess worst case scenarios if some of these more onerous provisions actually become law? I mean does it feel more like that’s just kind of some saber-rattling or is it felt to be a very serious threat of passage into law? Jason I think that the whole Russia situation is all very serious.
I – both at a geopolitical level and in our own small way.
I don’t think this is a saber-rattling situation any longer.
I just – I think this is going to be tough to work for almost everybody governments and companies over the next few months or periods of time.
It might last longer than that in one way or the other.
That’s just me and my personal opinion.
As far as we’re concerned as a company what we’ve seen in the recent legislation that got approved by the Duma and then by the Upper House but haven’t at least until this morning received the signature of the President but I’m assuming that’s a matter of time.
And somewhere over the next few days that’ll probably happen.
After all I know it could be happening now.
And therefore I assume that that legislation will get enacted.
Two of its provisions that are really interesting and complicated are the ones that I picked on and speaking and Martina picked on a little bit too.
One of those has to do with the on-soil requirement.
And the definition of on-soil obviously will depend – the devil is in the details of what constitutes on-soil versus what constitutes not being there.
Is it just a question of data moving is it a question of clearing is it a question of authorizing is it a question of settlement is it clearing authorizing and settlement? There’s a gazillion different – and gazillion’s a technical term – but there’s a heck of a lot of these different permutations and combinations that we are working our way through.
I actually don’t have clarity on that yet because a lot will depend on the dialog with the Central Bank of Russia which will establish the rules and the processes by which the legislation actually gets implemented on the ground.
My sense is that could take anywhere between if done rapidly 60 days to longer than that.
Given that Russia clearly feels that they need to get something done quickly I would expect they will make some energetic efforts to get it done quickly rather than later.
It was on that context that we came around to the belief that the limitation of the impact in 2014 will be small which Martina has factored into our estimate of our revenue growth for the year which is why – one of the reasons why even though our first quarter did a little better than we thought we’re still sticking around with the guidance we gave you earlier for the year as a whole.
Now if Russia doesn’t become as onerous than that or something else changes then life will change.
But right now we’re dealing with these imponderables.
And we didn’t want to not acknowledge the imponderables but at the same time tell you that in our head there is some checking balance in that system bringing us back to the guidance we already gave you earlier in the year.
That’s kind of how we are thinking about it.
There is another very onerous element in the legislation which has to do with the provision of collateral that will be required if somebody is considered to be a foreign payments player.
Now what’s foreign? What’s domestic? How do you become more domestic? Does on-soil with clearing authorization and settlement make you more domestic? Is it something else that makes you more domestic? Not clear.
So I don’t know all that yet.
I worry about all this because I consider myself to be a worrier and a paranoid guy about some of these things but I don’t know the answer yet.
So however I don’t think that will impact us directly in a financial sense as hard as could some other elements of this.
Now the third element of this is how our consumers in the market’s economy in Russia behaving.
In truth the Russian economy was already slowing over the last couple of years.
That’s public knowledge.
And we could see it in our data where we went down from very high growth rates and transactions and revenue a couple of years ago even though we’ve been growing shares in Russia over the last few years our growth rate is reducing – reducing but still very attractive in that sense.
What we have seen in the first quarter as Martina told you was really no direct impact.
Our people were doing what they had to do.
I guess that’s how it would be.
Remember that the sanctions of all the banks including the more recent ones in fact less than 1% of the cards we’ve issued.
So day to day sense people are still buying the stuff.
And what we are seeing changed however which is about to happen is some cross-border activity – people going in people coming out.
That I expect would happen when tensions increase in an area.
And I expect that to be the first impact even going out further as the Russian economy continues to get impacted by whatever goes on in the geopolitics and the reactions of the United States and Europe and other countries.
That’s kind of where I am.
It’s a long answer.
It’s a complicated issue.
We’ve tried to drill into it and come out with the thought that some impact will happen in 2014.
And probably ‘15 and ‘16 that’ll have more of the impact.
We’ve tried to give you guidance but at the end of the day this is a little over 2% of our revenue.
But it’s a good growth market so I don’t like it but it’s what’s happening.
It’s what we’ve got to deal with.
Thank you.
As well as at least that – when you look at the domestic value that has been going down from a growth rate point of view from very high growth rates last year [indiscernible] trending down given what is going on from an economic from a pure economic point of view in Russia.
And on cross-border volume we really haven’t seen a lot of change – a little bit of trending down but not a lot of change certainly not in the first quarter.
Only very recently over the last couple of weeks we’ve seen a little bit less as I said in my remarks for the April 28th numbers we’ve seen a little bit more of the growth coming down from a cross-border perspective.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Smittipon Srethapromote from Morgan Stanley.
Go right ahead sir.
Thank you.
My question is on there but your competitor recently spoke about weakness and debit payment volumes while your numbers seem quite robust.
Do you think you’re gaining share or are there any notable differences in debit exposure to call out that drove that divergence in trends? I guess the macro side [ph] we are gaining share but I don’t know what’s causing the issue for the others in truth.
I know that our in debit volumes continue to remain as I’ve said above that 400 million transactions a month which is up from the hundreds that we used to have pre-Durbin.
It goes up and down by 10 million 20 million transactions depending on where we are on the routing table of the larger retailers.
We have a very sophisticated way of comprehending where they want to pass that transaction.
But that’s kind of where we are.
Next question please.
We have our next question comes from Craig Maurer from CLSA.
Go right ahead sir.
Hey good morning.
Thanks.
Regarding how we’re progressing towards a mobile payments infrastructure in the US I was wondering how discussion with banks are proceeding in terms of MasterCard perhaps filling the role of a central token provider that can aggregate all the banks into a single token source and make it easier for a mobile rollout from someone say like Apple.
So as you know Craig we put out this whole announcement not just with MasterCard by the way but as an industry – Visa AmEx [indiscernible] in their announcement about providing tokenization as a way to help protect the increasing percentage of transactions that are digital because that’s where this impacts the most.
While at the same time allowing the right amount of information about which card is being used which category which type which institution who issued the card to flow back and forth between the merchant and the issuer.
That’s the whole purpose of what we’re trying to do with tokenization the way that Visa AmEx and us are trying to do it.
It’s really not suspect to us only.
The discussions are proceeding.
We’re talking to every institution we’re talking to merchants we’re talking to banks.
We’ve had discussions with legislators who want to understand tokenization although that’s in very early stages.
As you know there’s always interest in the legislative community around the whole mobile payment space more as a way of getting aware of what’s going on in the space than any other comprehension.
So that’s going on even as we speak.
So the dialog is usual.
We’re making progress in being ready to do all of these things.
We are – our technological development is continuing apace and in fact it’s going to keep adding to our CapEx.
That’s one of the things we’ve got to do.
We’ve got to invest money in tokenization and MasterPass and we’re doing it.
So that’s what’s going on.
But at the same time as I’ve said in my remarks we’re also working on different ways in which the mobile payments industry will develop.
It could be through secure elements it could be through postcard innovation.
And there are different levels of interest from banks merchants and hardware and M&amp;O [ph] providers on those two elements.
And then there’s of course the more old-fashioned way of mobile payments which is really more for transfers which is the SMS or simple wallet-based transfer of money.
We’re playing around with all of those from Telefonica which was more in the simple transfer of money to the conversations that you’ve had – you know we’ve been having with more sophisticated players who are trying out different ways of doing mobile payments.
So that’s the whole range.
And as I said in the past I don’t want to pick winners and losers in this.
I believe that one of the things we need to do as a company is to be a strong participant in these alternative ways in which digital payments will evolve.
And I actually don’t know that mobile payments is the only way digital payments will evolve.
It may be through wearables.
And mobility as a whole will probably be an asset.
It may not be only the phone.
And so we’re trying to play around all of those.
And between Ed McLaughlin in our emerging payments area and Garry Lyons in MasterCard Labs we have a very strong team that is working with our core products team to try and work with as many of these different methodologies as possible.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Go right ahead sir.
Yes.
So I wonder if you can just clarify two things in the 2% of revenues from Russia does that include cross-border volume and then could you give us – Yes.
Okay.
And so that could be a high percentage of that that might not disappear? And you said – Actually it’s not.
It’s not a high percentage.
It’s not.
It’s actually a relatively low percentage.
And first of all we said a little bit more than 2% of our revenues but it does include all of cross-border and it’s not a very significant – it’s some portion but it’s not the majority.
It’s much less than that.
Okay.
And could you just clarify what the – Dave let me give you a hint.
An overwhelming majority of the Russian revenue is domestic.
How’s that? Thank you.
That’s helpful thank you.
And could you just remind us what the revenue could be once the base portfolio [ph] is slowly deconverted? No.
So David we are doing it – all of my remarks that I have done for 2014 as well as for the longer period 2013 to ‘15 obviously takes them – takes the conversion.
But we are not calling out a specific number to a specific customer.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Kevin McVeigh from Macquarie.
Go right ahead sir.
Great thank you.
Just given what seemed like a little bit of higher level rebate incentives in Q1 and obviously Q4 should we expect that to tell off the balance of the year or just pretty consistent with historical trends as well? Should we see a bit of a step down given the investments in Q1 and Q4 or still at relatively historical levels? So Kevin let me just set this a little bit correctly.
What happened in Q4 was basically a catch-up from the prior quarters.
When you look at our Q2 and Q3 in 2013 rebate [indiscernible] the numbers were relatively low and then you had a catch-up in Q4 for that.
What you’re now seeing in Q1 of 2014 is very similar to what you have seen in prior years.
So you can actually say that 2013 was an anomaly from a quarter-over-quarter performance not from a whole year.
And now in 2014 you’re going to see something very similar to 2012 – in 2014 to 2012.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Go right ahead sir.
Thank you.
I guess the accelerating GDV and process transaction growth in the United States is pretty encouraging given the backdrop.
Could you just talk about what’s driving that? Is it your customer engagement or is it consumer spending more? And maybe you could just talk about kind of a broader lead across to the economy.
Thank you.
Hi Sanjay.
So yes as I said spending falls short at 2 point something – 2.8% or 2.9% growth in the first quarter ex auto.
As you know it was down from the growth rate of the fourth quarter over the same quarter of the prior year.
All these numbers by the way are not sequential quarter.
They are quarter-over-quarter same quarter prior year.
The – and that is down – by the way the fourth quarter was down over the third quarter.
So in a sense it feels like the growth rate of consumer spending ex auto in the US felt like it was slowing over these three quarters.
But interestingly when you unpeel the first quarter I should see two things that make me feel that we shouldn’t jump to that conclusion too quickly.
And the first one has to do with the regional spending trends in the United States in the consumer spending trend.
Aside from the Northeast which actually in our SpendingPulse data declined for the total consumer spending ex auto in the Northeast.
And actually the growth rate was minus.
So a little decline in the first quarter of 2014 over the first quarter of 2013.
And similarly in the mid-West where there was very bad weather we had a small decline.
Now a larger proportion of the US consumer spending comes from the Northeast than the mid-West.
On the other hand the Western part of the country from Seattle down to California grew very very handsomely almost in the double digits.
And the Southwest of the country Texas through Florida did something similar.
So when you put the whole of the United States together the weather truly truly did seem to have some kind of an impact because it just matches too closely to this pattern.
The second thing that was interest – and I don’t yet know how to calculate the impact of it – is Easter.
Easter is coming at a different time and therefore April’s numbers by and large look a little better for most of us and for the consumer spending early data that I’m seeing.
I haven’t yet seen our new SpendingPulse data.
It will come out within a few days of the 1st of May which is now so in a few days it will emerge.
That’s kind of what I know so far.
So overall I’d say that the US even though the numbers at a bold [ph] level look like the growth rate is reducing I wouldn’t jump to that conclusion too quickly.
And our next question comes from James Friedman from Susquehanna.
Go right ahead sir.
Hi.
And Ajay I wanted to follow up on the Svenska Handelsbanken win.
Congratulations I know that’s a very prestigious issue.
I think you had in your comments suggested it was your largest conversion in Europe since Swedbank.
So I don’t have to spend $10 000 for the Nielsen Report could you give us some context on Svenska how big are they relative to Sweden – to Swedbank? That would be helpful.
Thank you.
I think you spend the 10 grand and you’ve got to pay for all this people too.
I’ll send you my copy.
How’s that? I’ll tell you this.
I don’t want to talk about a particular institution.
It’s not what I would do in terms of their size.
But I will give you this idea.
In the Nordics there are three of four very large institutions and you’re counting – the two names you mentioned are among those three or four right on the top.
The Handelsbanken is actually the second largest retail bank in Sweden.
It’s presence outside of Sweden in the rest of the Nordics is lower than its presence in Sweden so it may not be – in fact I don’t think it is the second largest for the whole of the Nordics.
But it is very – one of the large three or four big ones there.
But it’s pretty significant for us because we’ve been trying to build our share in the Nordics now for a little while partly because that’s one of the markets where cash is truly not king where electronic payments are king.
And so much so that I think the estimate of cash in terms of percentage of transactions in Nordics is between 5% and 10% or even lower in some cases which makes it quite the opposite of the world which is 85% cash and checks.
And so we’ve been doing well there.
We were not in a great position four five years ago.
We’ve actually grown ourselves nicely and that’s the flavor I was trying to provide you in terms of becoming among the largest players in the Baltics and now the largest debit card in Sweden and we’ve grown our share in credit and commercial and installment cards and co-brand cards and I feel generally good about where we are there.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bryan Keane from Deutsche Bank.
Go right ahead sir.
Yes hi guys good morning.
Just more details that have come out on the European regulation front so I just want to get an update from you guys on any details on the potential challenges the MasterCard – I know you guys mentioned that is something you’re highlight.
So what are the kind of things that you guys are looking at that could be a challenge? Well there’s multiple things in that legislation the way it is currently worded although it has changed also from the original wordings and in some ways the current wording is less onerous and in others it is more onerous.
The one that came through the last round added commercial card interchange to be controlled and dictated just as consumer interchange in the current space is going to be controlled and dictated.
I actually don’t like that because it – remember we are inside this legislation.
The aspect of other full party [ph] schemes as well as schemes that look like full party [ph] but may not be called full party [ph] are also included.
But at the end of the day I think what really happened here and this is information gleamed more from hearsay than reality is that my sense is that the recent work was a confused one.
The legislators actually did not believe that commercial cards should be dictated in the same way as consumer credit cards but in a mix up in the wording pattern it got worded the wrong way.
I don’t know whether that will get corrected over this coming process but that’s kind of what we’re discussing openly and transparently with the legislative community and the regulatory community in Europe.
I would like that to not be in the rules really.
But beyond that there’s a bunch of other rules that had started.
Remember the one about separation of management between scheme and processing.
And there was this whole thing of what’s constituted in separation and what’s not.
We’re getting a little more clarity it feels like the way it looks today but management would have to be separated you would have to have some legal entities separated.
But the holding company could be the same.
Now that’s complicated but not impossible.
It’s a pain in the neck but it’s not impossible.
And so those are the kind of things we’re working our way through.
Some of them have more implications for other players in the ecosystem – for merchants for banks for us it kind of varies each time.
And we’re trying to take a balanced view for it.
I know for sure that when regulation comes in it causes some amount of uncertainty in movement.
But on the whole what we’re trying to do here is work our way through the details of it talk to the regulators and the community there about the whole aspect of the regulation.
I think they’ve tried to bring in more elements around the level playing field that they’re asked for.
I don’t know that all the elements are there yet in reference to commercial card for example but they are in the others.
And so kind of a mixed bag.
And I’m not going to go much further on this call.
But I’m going to work my way through it over the next six months.
Remember we’re talking about first half of 2014 when this will probably get batted down.
And we’ve got as you can imagine a number of very smart people working at it in some detail.
First half of 2015 correct – 2015 sorry not ‘14.
Error.
2014 is what we’re in.
2015.
As you can see I’m losing track of time just like advancing age.
Looking ahead.
Okay thanks for the call.
Operator next question.
Our next question comes from Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Go right ahead.
Thank you.
Ajay I wouldn’t send that Nielsen Report because I don’t think Nielsen likes that.
There’s a very sharp word in the – so I was just wondering if you could give – with the Russia noise if you can give an update on China and have you seen any movements there for opening up local processing in country and if you feel you’re in a position if they’re – if you think that other countries are going to follow what Russia is doing and when you see the effects that sanctions can have on a payments industry and on the banking industry.
So if you could talk a little bit about Russia if you’re seeing any movement there.
And then at what point do you just – I mean on Russia I think one of the terms that I saw on one of the – I’m not sure what exactly what they passed but they wanted Visa and MasterCard to put up $4 billion $3.8 billion two days processing or something like that is – at what point do you just throw in the towel on Russia? So I mean there are two different kind of parts there.
The one about the level of collateral and as I mentioned that’s one of the issues.
I actually don’t think the number is what you just said.
I think it’s a lower number than that.
But having said that it’s not a number I’m interested in.
So to be clear either which way I’m not a happy boy on that one.
But I don’t know we’ll see.
We’re going to have the discussions with the Central Bank.
We are very transparently in conversation with them.
It’s kind of interesting on the ground in Russia banks and their clients and merchants are still doing a lot of new things with us.
And it’s almost like that’s continuing.
We’ve actually launched new things in the last three weeks with them.
And then on the other hand and having a very open by the way transparent discussion with the Central Bank which as you would expect with a good regulator you would expect that transparency of discussion.
Clearly there is a political circumstance in Russia that is driving in a different direction.
This whole thing of having domestic payment schemes is not new to us.
But we’re dealing with it in Europe for a long time before SEPA which of course changed it.
And as you know that’s opened the doors for us there.
Recently in Mexico which has always been dominated domestically by two domestic payment switches that were owned by the bank the Mexican government has just literally – and I think it’s three four weeks ago has put out a new regulation that actually opens that space for people like us and our competitors to attempt to begin to process domestic transactions.
Now it’ll be a long road.
Nothing happens overnight.
I mean SEPA has been one of the longest winding roads that we can think of.
But it’s there.
We’re going to go after that kind of stuff.
So stuff comes in stuff goes out.
I don’t know that any one incident makes that whole domestic payment switch versus foreign company being – working here whether it changes the balance greatly.
Stuff comes in stuff goes out.
People keep talking to us – we get peaks and trust [ph] of conversation around that space.
And remember within it there are flavors.
There’s domestic payment switch versus on-soil processing what constitutes on-soil as I was explaining in the earlier answer is in itself a very detailed conversation.
So that’s kind of the whole element there.
China we’ve continued to grow in China with the partnership that we have with China UnionPay.
As you know there’s been an actually overwhelming majority of the co-brands that get issued for domestic use with the cup blub [ph] on it and for overseas travel with MasterCard on it.
And that’s a good thing.
We’re also doing things with them on eCommerce.
We’re doing things with them on expanding acceptance from China and outside.
But as far as the regulator is concerned my sense is that they’re actually working their way through what kind of policy they would have to open up their domestic market while ensuring that their country’s needs are met and protected.
So I don’t know that you’ll go from having a completely closed domestic market to a US kind of market.
I never expected that to tell you the truth.
The question is where in the middle does it come.
And honestly I don’t know enough about that.
To let you know I was there I don’t know five six weeks ago at the China Development Forum.
When I go and speak there and I talked about a few things and I met a number of regulators.
I met senior leaders there.
And my sense is they’re very engaged and very open about the dialog but they’re not there yet.
They’re still working their way through it.
Okay thank you.
Sir I think we have time for one last question.
Of course.
And our last question will be from Darrin Peller from Barclays.
Go right ahead.
Thanks guys.
Listen I saw your comments on the European regulations [indiscernible] the Russian invocations chase [ph] all three of those not impacting your guidance I guess long term is helpful.
I just want to be clear.
First of all that is long term right? That’s the 11% to 14% CAGR you’re talking about? And then Martina just as a follow up around the dilution I guess you mentioned earlier I think from acquisitions during the year being $0.06 to $0.07 now versus $0.01 to $0.02 earlier in the year.
Can you just give a little more color on what’s different now than in January? Maybe you can just brand [ph] the size – the relative size of the deals? I’m from the first part and let’s not do the acquisition part as well.
Let me give a little clarity of what I – I want to make sure that you hear where I’m coming from.
The guidance we’re referring to is up 2013 through 2015.
That’s the guidance we have given that’s what’s called our long term guidance.
Right.
I believe that what’s going on between Russia and the European regulation Russia actually could be even more complicated given the level of detail we’re having here as a conversation.
Europe could be – some early impact this could be negative but that could be where if we are innovative if we are creative and if we are competitive on the ground I continue to believe that Europe is an enormous opportunity given that so much of Europe’s expenditure outside of the Nordics is still in cash.
And I think we bring a lot of assets to the table for the European government and the European consumer and the European merchant and the European banks and the European M&amp;Os who are now good partners of ours.
So that’s where we’re coming from and that – we think that there’s a lot of negative in this but there’s a lot of positives too in a business like ours – conversion of secular trends the market share we’re winning the deals we are doing and somewhere in there is our attempt to balance and get to the guidance that we’re giving you.
It won’t be easy but it’s what we are committed to doing.
We have in the past found our way through somewhat complicated situations.
And I have some confidence that’s what we’re doing here too.
Yes.
So as you can appreciate we had to do a number of scenarios that gives us the comfort that we can go to the 11% to 14% for the 2013 to the 2015 period.
And that we feel comfortable that we can do that.
Now you asked your second question on the acquisitions.
What’s changed is what acquisitions we have made.
So first of all we had only two acquisitions Provus and HomeSend this is the processing play as well as the remittance play that we talked about on the first quarter – on the fourth quarter earnings call in Chile.
Sure.
And those were relatively small properties.
The other two that we have announced one we have now closed was C-SAM that already Ajay quoted in terms of the mobile platform capabilities that C-SAM brings to us.
That is relatively larger property as well as Pinpoint which is the loyalty play in Australia that will allow us to actually expand our loyalty capabilities all over Asia Pacific.
So both – that hasn’t closed by the way.
Both of those are a little larger and that leads to the $0.06 to $0.08.
Okay got it.
So I got to add.
Pinpoint’s also factor into Martina’s thinking even though it’s not closed.
That’s the real clarity that we want to make sure you get.
And by the way back to the earlier question to make sure you feel comfortable where we’re coming from.
Honestly what made me comfortable is the fact that there’s a range there.
And I don’t know yet.
I’m no crystal ball to tell you I’ll end up where in that range.
And I know I’m going to have ups and downs.
But that’s what you guys invest in us for which is to stay committed to trying to get to the right market share and revenue growth.
And that’s what we’re going to do.
All right very helpful guys.
Thanks.
And Barbara do you have any final remarks? I’m going to turn the call over to Ajay for just a second.
Thanks Adrianna [ph].
So everybody thank you for your questions and I’m going to leave you with a couple of closing parts.
So we’re off to a very good start in 2014.
We feel good about them despite the mixed economic conditions.
And I think we all believe those mixed economic conditions will probably be around for the near term.
We do have some challenges with Russia and the European payments industry regulation with the new wrinkle [ph] of commercial cards potentially being included that I just talked about.
But you know what there are opportunities too around the world which we believe give us some balance.
And that’s what the answer was just now in the last question about our guidance.
As Martina said we’re staying with our long term guidance.
We’ve continued to make good progress in winning deals around the world including our singles and doubles in US consumer credit.
We’re also investing in new technology and other services.
We’re doing it organically.
You heard about that through MasterPass and tokenization.
We’re also doing it through acquisitions – C-SAM which will help us scale MasterPass and other things in that space the loyalty acquisition Provus and processing and so on.
All of these help increase our share.
They’re creating new opportunities for our business.
And most importantly they’re driving the conversion of our set target our 85% cash that exists in the world.
So all in all our business continues with strong momentum.
We’re focused on delivering another good year.
And I want to thank you all for your continued support and your consideration of what we’re doing.
And thank you for joining today’s call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MasterCard’s Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us for a discussion about our second quarter 2014 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
Even if you think you have already dialed into the queue you will need to register again following our prepared comments.
This morning’s earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at mastercard.com.
These documents have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one week through August 7.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today’s earnings release I need to remind everyone that today’s call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard’s future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our most recent SEC filings.
With that I will now turn the call over to Ajay Banga.
Ajay? Thank you Barbara and good morning everybody.
So for the second quarter we are very pleased to report a net revenue growth of 13% both as-reported and adjusted for currency.
That increase is driven by healthy volume and transaction growth which resulted in net income growth of 10% as-reported or 9% adjusted for currency and an EPS growth of 14%.
And these results include the impact of all the acquisitions that we’ve completed so far this year.
So let’s start with looking at the underlying global economic trends with the United States where the economy seems to be improving but not without some challenges.
Our second quarter SpendingPulse data showed U.S.
retail sales ex-auto growing at 3.8% and that’s a noticeable improvement over the first quarter number of growth of 2.3%.
However over that quarter the monthly trend decelerated partially as a result of lower gasoline spending which consumers did not appear to rollover into additional discretionary spend.
Having said that overall we think that current U.S.
economic recovery is very much a work in progress.
We see some favorable indicators the continued improvement in unemployment figures consumer confidence levels and so on.
But in fact early indications for July retail sales again ex-auto are showing further improvement over the second quarter.
But there are some factors that could weigh on that economic recovery like the slowing recovery in housing and the improvement in unemployment coming in part from an upswing in part-time workers rather than just full-time positions.
So despite those mixed segments our U.S.
business saw an improvement in the quarter primarily driven by stronger growth in our consumer credit volume and continued good growth in commercial credit.
Europe.
Europe continues a slow recovery path.
PCE growth projections remain unchanged for the year at 3.5%.
Consumer confidence economic sentiment unemployment rates all continue to improve across the region.
And if you add to this in the case of the U.K.
in particular our SpendingPulse data showed retail sales ex-auto growing by 4.8% in that quarter one of the strongest rates in the last four years with growth specs evenly across the sectors.
So MasterCard’s total European volume growth for the second quarter was in the low-teens process transaction growth was in the high-teens both a bit lower than the first quarter.
The region’s growth was driven by number of countries including Russia Turkey Sweden and Italy.
In Latin America full-year GDP growth expectations for the region have been revised down from 2.5% to 2.3% because of slower than expected performance in some of the key countries including Brazil and Mexico.
And our second quarter SpendingPulse data for Brazil shows that retail sales grew 4.1% down from the 5.9% growth in the first quarter.
And this by the way is the weakest growth rate since August of last year.
On the other hand the Mexican economy showed some improvement in the second quarter and we believe that will continue as the U.S.
economy improves.
Our business in the region remains healthy but it has slowed somewhat over the first quarter with second quarter GDP growth in the low-teens and process transaction growth remaining in the high-teens.
Across the Asia Pacific region business sentiment and consumer confidence were up with improvements in many countries tied to changes in their political environments.
And our business in Asia Pacifica Middle East Africa continues to do well with process transaction growth remaining about 30% and GDP growth in the high-teens for the second quarter.
So before we go to some of our business highlights let me say a few words about a couple of legal and regulatory matters.
And first with regards to the proposed European Interchange Legislation.
Not much has changed since last quarter.
We are actively engaged with all parties while the Council of Ministers continues its review.
And we still believe that the proposed legislation is most likely to be adopted sometime in the first half of 2015.
Second let’s talk about Russia.
As you know the Russians are implementing changes to their domestic payments market in the form of a new payments law which will impact MasterCard.
We are pursuing multiple options to comply with the new law while fulfilling our U.S.
obligations.
And according to that law ownership of domestic Russian switching has to be majority controlled by a Russian entity and should use Russian technology in order to relieve a foreign payments network from the collateral requirement that is now been delayed by the way till October 31.
The law provides some flexibility.
And you were all aware of our RFP process to find the local switching partner as one part that we are pursuing.
In addition the processing center we currently have in Russia we believe gives us the basis to build our own on-soil switching capabilities and we are exploring options to leverage that as well.
Overall we expect only minimal impact from the current Russia situation for our 2014 results.
So that situation is still fluid as you all know it’s difficult to put any future annualized impact into precise dollars but if you look for a number press for a number our estimate today would be that our revenue could be impacted but something less than $50 million in its full calendar year of this effort.
The exact amount along with any investment requirement for our on-soil switching capability will obviously depend on the final form of our operating concept in Russia.
So let’s move on some of our recent business activity.
First talking about Russia.
I want to tell that as we continue to work through the challenges there our business continues to move forward.
For example we just renewed our business agreement with Alpha Bank Russia’s largest private bank and that should help us expand our existing partnership in issuing affluent cards and accelerating the growth of contactless technology in the Russian market.
So let’s go beyond that to talk about how we deepen our relationships with merchants and leverage these into partnerships to grow our business.
I am going to highlight some recent additional activity in that space but not only with merchants but also with mobile operators and with governments.
We’ve been investing in our merchant relationships over the past few years.
They are now 40% of our customer facing people sales people in the United States are dedicated to that space.
Last quarter I mentioned the Wal-Mart Sam’s Club and Target wins.
And this quarter we got a few more to talk about.
At the beginning of spring of 2015 BJ’s Wholesale Club will be converting their entire credit business to chip-enabled MasterCard credit cards.
And we are very pleased to be chosen as BJ’s partner to help them deliver most secure solution for their cardholders.
We’ve also had a couple of important renewals in our merchant co-bank business with Sears and Expedia continuing our longstanding relationship with both of them.
Outside of the U.S.
MasterCard was selected as the co-brand partner for the Landmark Shukran credit card in the U.A.E.
Landmark Group is one of the largest retail organizations in the Middle East 1 800 stores.
They also are the region’s largest retail loyalty program in seven countries with almost 6 million members.
For us our goodness of merchants is not just about co-brands.
We are also working with merchants in a number of activities that leverage our other assets; Advisors MasterCard Labs and so on.
So using our Advisors’ data analytics we are working with Expedia to help them improve the effectiveness of their marketing campaigns by identifying the best people to target and with Shell and Williams<i>-</i>Sonoma to enhance their loyalty propositions.
Another example we work through the major cruise line to identify opportunities for them to reduce their costs by moving their B2B payments from check writing to ACH to purchasing costs and virtual card numbers using our in-control capability.
And finally with MasterCard Labs we’re bringing our partners together to help solve some of that business challenges.
And one example earlier this summer MasterCard worked on this first ever in-flight wearable technology Hackathon with American Airlines where we gave our technology and our mentorship.
We used technology tools like Simplify Commerce and MasterPass to develop wearable solutions for travel.
Moving onto mobile.
Last quarter we talked about mobile as being just one of the many ways that consumers are shifting from physical to digital payments and now it represents one of the most significant changes in our space.
In this quarter we continue to develop and expand our partnerships with both handset manufacturers and network operators.
So a couple of examples.
We worked with Samsung in Australia last year if you remember we continue to deepen that relationship by launching Russia’s first contactless mobile payment service with Russian Standard Bank using Samsung phones Russian Standard’s mobile banking application and MasterCard’s Mobile NFC technology our prepaid products and enhanced processing services.
This partnership kind of brings our products and services together to deliver innovation in yet another market with Samsung.
In Canada Rogers Wireless which is that country’s largest wireless service provider they have got 9 million subscribers or so recently launched their suretap wallet and that’s got a MasterCard prepaid card embedded inside.
That new application allows Rogers’ subscribers to use their NFC-enabled smartphones to make contactless payments which were already accepted for example in Canada in the 18 of the 20 largest merchants.
Moving onto MasterPass.
We’re continuing with our global expansion of MasterPass.
MasterPass as you know is our got digital acceptance platform connecting consumers and merchants.
In this quarter MasterPass launched in Singapore in Poland and South Africa.
We are now up to 10 markets.
We expect to do four more by the year-end.
It’s more than a wallet by the way.
It’s a platform which provides a safe and secure foundation to support multi-channel shopping and the ability to create innovative tools that you could use to enhance the consumer buying experience before during and after the actual purchase.
Over the next two years we think we will be in all the markets that represent about 75% of our total volume.
MasterPass have been designed from the start with tools that make it very easy for merchants and issuers to integrate with it.
Last quarter we launched our in-app payment capability.
Now we’ve got a number of merchants.
One example is Starbucks in Australia committed to including MasterPass in their apps.
So finally partnerships with governments and our efforts in financial inclusion.
To drive this expansion you’ve got to connect the right technologies and platforms.
You’re going to prepaid and mobile payments with the network and then adapt them to a local marketplace.
And the only way that happens is you have the right partnership between the public and private sector.
We’re actually seeing the results of some of that work happen today.
In the last two years we’ve launched over 100 new programs designed to bring access to millions and security to over 350 million people around the world who didn’t have access to financial products before these programs were launched.
You already know what we’ve done in South Africa and Nigeria.
And let me give you some more color with a few more examples this quarter.
So in Pakistan we are partnering with the Bank of Punjab to issue millions of prepaid cards with biometric recognition to the nearly 90% of the Pakistani population who are unbanked and receive funds from government disbursement programs.
This program has helped the government of Pakistan improve their service reduce inefficiencies reduce leakage in the process.
And in June we announced the launch of the first Arabic mobile money implementation with the National Bank of Egypt and a mobile network Etisalat.
This service is called a Flous wallet I hope I get that right will allow Etisalat subscribers to transfer money pay their bills top-up their mobile phones and make purchases either online or face-to-face.
And also in June Tabung Haji the first and largest Islamic non-bank financial institution in the world launched their first Shariah-compliant debit MasterCard.
So cardholders can use their card anywhere MasterCard is accepted including on their pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina.
This event marks the beginning of broader collaboration with Tabung Haji in the Islamic payment space and together we are supporting Malaysia’s economic transformation program to drive financial inclusion and to accelerate that country’s migration to electronic payments.
So with that let me turn the call over to Martina for an update on our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of our slide deck where you see the as-reported as well as the FX-adjusted growth rates.
All of my comments pertain to the FX-adjusted figures which are almost the same as the as-reported numbers.
So we are very pleased with our strong performance this quarter.
Net revenue growth was 13%.
This combined with operating expenses growth of 14% resulted in a 9% increase in net income.
While acquisitions had minimal impact on net revenue and net income in the quarter they did contribute 3 PPT to operating expense growth.
EPS growth was 14% and share repurchases contributed $0.04 per share.
During the second quarter we repurchased almost 16 million shares at a cost of approximately $1.2 billion.
Through July 24 we purchased an additional 1.4 million shares at a cost of approximately $106 million and we now have $728 million remaining under the current authorization.
We will continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
Cash flow from operations was $729 million and we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalent and other liquid investments of about $5.7 billion.
So let me turn to Page 4 where you can see the operational metrics for the second quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 13% on a local currency basis down slightly from last quarter.
Overall our U.S.
GDV grew 9% which was essentially the same as last quarter.
On the credit side we had strong volume growth of 10%.
This was an increase from last quarter driven by improvements in consumer credits with growth in high-single-digits and continued strong growth in commercial credit which was in the mid-teens.
Similar to last quarter our U.S.
debit growth was 9%.
Outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 15% on a local currency basis.
This continues to be driven by APMEA with high-teens growth.
Cross-border volume grew 16% on a local currency basis just slightly lower than the 17% we saw in the first quarter.
Growth in both APMEA and Europe was in the high-teens.
Key contributors to this growth included the U.K.
Italy and Sweden.
The deceleration of cross-border volume growth in Canada and Brazil continued into the second quarter.
And in addition we saw a deceleration in Australia Russia and China with Australia likely due to currency.
Turning to Page 5.
Process transaction grew 12% globally to more than $10.6 billion.
We continue to see double-digit growth in most regions.
And globally the number of cards grew 8% with over 2 billion MasterCard and Maestro branded cards.
Now let’s turn to Page 6.
And here we’re going to go through some insights on a few of our revenue line items.
Domestic assessments grew 10% while worldwide GDV grew 13%.
This 3 PPT gap is primarily due to higher volume growth in markets with lower than average revenue yields.
This lower yield continues to be impacted by two factors.
The first is lower fees in some markets as a result of either local market structure or the existing domestic schemes that we compete against.
And the second is a higher proportion of cash volumes particularly in emerging markets.
Now the second factor actually does provide us with a good opportunity for future growth as we work to influence consumer behavior to use electronic forms of payment directly at the point-of-sale instead of cash.
Cross-border volume fees grew 13% while cross-border volume grew 16%.
After excluding the 4 PPT contribution from pricing the resulting gap between revenue and volume growth continues to be due for the most part due to higher mix of intra-European activity.
Transaction processing fees grew 14% primarily driven by the 12% growth in process transactions.
Overall net revenue growth was 13% both as-reported and FX-adjusted as the impact of the euro and the real al essentially offset each other.
Beyond those two currencies we still experienced some headwind although a little less than last quarter from the weakening of the other local currencies such as the Russian ruble the Turkish lira the Argentine peso and the Canadian dollar and that was reflected mainly in the domestic assessment category.
Let me move to Page 7.
And here you can see total operating expenses were up 14% in the quarter in line with our expectations.
As I said before 3 PPT was due to expenses related to acquisitions which were mainly in the G&amp;A line.
So when looking specifically at the 19% growth in G&amp;A our acquisitions primarily C-SAM and Provus along with the consolidation of our majority-owned HomeSend investment contributed 3 PPT.
The balance of the growth is primarily due to the continued organic investments we are making in strategic initiatives.
The decrease in advertising and marketing was mostly due to lower media spending relative to last year.
And finally the $20 million increase in D&amp;A is the result of our growing level of capital expenditures mainly associated with additional investments in technology to support initiatives like MasterPass and Priceless Cities.
It also includes the impact of the amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisitions we made.
Turning to Slide 8.
Let’s discuss what we have seen in July through the 28th.
Each of our business drivers is slightly down compared to the second quarter but most are still in double-digits.
All of this has been factored into our full-year outlook.
So the numbers through Jul 28 are as follows.
Starting with processed volume we saw global growth of 11% down slightly from the second quarter.
In the U.S.
our processed volume grew 8% down 2 PPT from what we saw last quarter.
As expected we are now seeing more of an impact from the Chase migration.
Process volume growth outside of the U.S.
grew 14% about 1 PPT lower than the second quarter primarily due to some continued deceleration in Brazil Russia and Canada.
Globally processed transaction growth was 10% also by 2 PPT lower than what we saw in the second quarter including the Chase migration.
And now with respect to cross-border.
Our volume grew at a healthy 14% globally about 2 PPT lower than second quarter.
For the most part this deceleration can be explained by three factors.
The first is the timing of Ramadan the impact of which we expect will reverse in August.
Second the impact of foreign exchange on consumer purchasing power in certain travel corridors such as Canada to the U.S.
And lastly the impact of some government imposed taxes on foreign purchases particularly from Brazil.
Looking forward let’s begin with our long-term performance objectives for the 2013 to 2015 period.
We continue to believe that our business can deliver an 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR and at least 20% EPS CAGR.
This includes our views on the developments related to Chase Russia and the European regulations that we talked about.
We also remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
Remember these objectives are on a constant currency basis and exclude new M&amp;A activities.
As we discussed at last year’s Investor Day we are looking to add capabilities in strategic spaces such as loyalty processing mobile information services and safety and security both organically and inorganically.
Over the past four to five years we’ve looked at a large number of opportunities but only a few have met our strategic and financial criteria.
Although it can often take many months to evaluate and close a deal it just so happens that several have come to the finish line within a relatively short period this year.
Our past acquisitions like Datacash and Access Prepaid along with the five we’ve done so far this year.
So that’s Provus C-SAM ECS Pinpoint and our majority investment in HomeSend all of these deals are un-point from a strategic perspective and help us grow our business.
You should expect us to continue to evaluate more such investments.
Now moving on let me offer some commentary about 2014.
So while M&amp;A activities are not included in our performance objectives we continue to get a lot of questions about how they will impact our as-reported financials.
So let me take this opportunity to provide a little more color on that.
As I discussed on last quarter’s earnings call EPS dilution is expected to be $0.06 to $0.08 for the full-year 2014.
Specifically most of the impact will show up in the G&amp;A line and we expect G&amp;A to increase by about $80 million in each of the two remaining quarters before considering any organic growth in G&amp;A over last year.
Including the impact of these acquisitions the expected growth rate in G&amp;A for the second half of the year will be in the high-teens.
Now here are some additional thoughts about 2014 which are essentially unchanged since our last call.
Our expectations of full-year net revenue growth remains at the low end of our three year range.
The strong underlying close trends we are seeing in volume and transactions is allowing us to absorb the minimal impact expected from the Russian situation as well as a good portion of the attrition that we anticipate from Chase this year.
The pace of the Chase attrition during the second quarter was essentially in line with our internal projections and we continue to believe most of it will occur in the latter half of this year with the remaining flowing over into 2015.
In addition we also continue to expect a 1 PPT contribution to our 2014 as-reported net revenue growth from our M&amp;A transactions.
Overall we haven’t our changed our view about total operating expense growth from what we said in May that we expect the as-reported growth rate for full-year 2014 to be in the low-teens after including the impact from M&amp;A activities.
Along with the growth in G&amp;A that I just talked about we continue to expect D&amp;A growth in the 25% range for full-year 2014 due to our higher level of capital expenditures as well as the impact of amortizing intangible assets related to acquisitions.
As a reminder you should be reflecting roughly $10 million per quarter to account for the interest expense associated with the debt offering we launched in late March.
When we look at the sell-side models out there it appears that many of you still have not accounted for those in your other income and expense lines.
For now you should also continue to assume a full-year tax rate of about 32% but recognize that we’re still working on a number of initiatives to better align our tax structure with our business footprint which will likely result in a lower tax rate over time.
Finally with respect to foreign exchange in 2014.
If those rates remain similar to where they are today so that’s the euro trading at the 134 level and the Brazilian real at the 223 level for the rest of the year the net impact of the euro and the real would be a slight tailwind for the full-year.
Further beyond the functional currency impact of the euro and the real we have already seen almost 2 PPT headwinds to net revenue growth year-to-date from other currencies depreciating against the U.S.
dollar and the euro.
As I said before we carefully manage those exposures but we have also assumed some impact for the rest of the year.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thanks Martina.
We’re now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
Don’t forget my earlier comments that if you dialed into the queue when you first joined the call you will need to register again to ask a question.
And in order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
Christine?  Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Tien-tsin Huang of JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Thanks for all the details.
Just want to ask on the cross-border yield which was stronger than we expected.
I heard there was some pricing that helped there but can you also just comment on how sensitive your revenues can be from the FX volatility? I know that Visa has put that in our minds quite a bit so curious how much settlement trading has an impact on your business and also if this new pricing that you’ve put in is sustainable? Thanks.
So I am going to take this.
Tien-tsin it’s Martina.
First of all we said that we had in the quarter 4 PPT impact from pricing in the cross-border fees.
Quite the majority of that is actually going to roll off next quarter okay.
Secondly with respect to foreign exchange volatility.
Our cross-border volumes are really only impacted from a foreign exchange volatility in terms of what the exchange rates are in terms of where people are actually transacting.
What we do from a settlement trading revenue point of view when we actually affect that exchange that is not reflected in the cross-border fees it’s actually reflected in the transaction processing fee.
And when we look at the foreign exchange volatility it did go down over the last year or so but in terms of an impact on our settlement trading fees what’s relatively small we’re talking about $10 million or so.
So it was not a big factor for us at all.
Next question please? Thank you.
The next question is from Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi guys.
Just wanted to follow-up on the cross-border.
Just trying to understand when we look at the competitors in your volume your volume seems to be so much higher.
Just trying to figure out how much of that is share gain or is that just business mix? Obviously Europe plays a part in this.
So if you can just help us understand kind of volumes versus the industry? Thanks.
Yes Bryan.
So when we look at our cross-border as I said it was 16% this quarter.
In the prior quarter it was 17%.
And when we pull out Europe in the prior quarter we basically said it was the same number 17% growth.
When you look at this quarter in the second quarter and you pull out Europe actually for the rest of the world we grew 14%.
So it all depends on mix in terms of where people are traveling to and what the overall mix comes out.
Thank you.
Okay and… So I was just going to ask any share gains there before – is share gains explaining a lot of this besides mix? I mean are you gaining share and taking away from competitors? Look I think it’s a number of factors.
One is obviously what are you doing with the existing portfolio that you have of banks and in terms of how you are pointing the portfolios to be able for people to really use those cards across borders and transact in other countries.
Two obviously there are some share gains in it but I think you’re going to have to look at those very comprehensively that there are number of drivers.
Okay helpful.
Thanks.
Yes I just want to correct one thing.
When I said I pulled out Europe it’s not all of our European regions it’s really Western Europe which is anonymous to where Visa Europe is operating.
Okay thanks so much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from David Hochstim of Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I wonder if you could just provide some more color on the consistent increase in growth in U.S.
purchase volume we’ve seen over the last few quarters.
Is most of that Citi reinvigorating the American Airlines co-brand or there are other things that are big contributors? It’s Ajay.
It’s a bunch of things.
We’ve been winning some co-brands over time.
Citi American is clearly one of them but there are others too.
And going against it is the roll-off of the Chase book that’s been relatively slow in the first half but its picking up as we expected in the second half.
So it’s kind of an in and out over there that’s going on in the consumer part of the book.
And our commercial traded book continues to do well.
It’s a higher growth rate in the low to mid-teens kind of number compared to the number for the consumer book but it’s a mix of two things that’s going on.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Sanjay Sakhrani of KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I was hoping to just get a little bit more cadence on the rebate line given the Chase conversion is now underway.
Could you just talk about how we should think about how that progresses through the rest of the year? Thanks.
Sir I don’t think that you should be expecting any major surprises on that.
So when you look at this year versus last year on a quarter-by-quarter basis the only thing that you saw last year is that we had a little bit less of rebates in the second quarter and a little bit more in the fourth quarter.
So I think for this year you should just expect a little bit more of an even distribution of that i.e.
you’re not going to see the fourth quarter going up in such a significant way.
And then maybe just for the year.
It’s kind of comparable then? Very comparable.
All right great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
I wanted to kind of turn back to the acquisitions because I guess the guidance you gave us on revenues 1% for the full-year.
So that’s roughly $140 million.
I mean it sounds like the costs are still higher than that kind of on a run rate.
So could you talk a little bit about how you see that progressing into ‘15 and ultimately – I understand that some of the acquisitions don’t have a ton of revenue coming with them.
So could you just talk a little bit of how you think about them in terms of the returns that they are going to generate for the company? Yes look we are separating acquisitions really into two buckets.
One bucket is capability set and the things that we really need to do in order to affect some of our strategies.
I would put for instance a company like C-SAM in that.
To be honest C-SAM did not come with a lot of revenues but they came with a huge amount of capabilities over 200 engineers in India that are really very well trained in the mobile platforms and helping significant on our execution on the MasterPass arena.
The other part of the acquisitions are buying fully fledged businesses like the business that we just closed which is Pinpoint and that came in literally at the end of the quarter.
So you’re not seeing a lot of revenues there.
That’s a fully vest business.
It comes with revenues.
It comes with expenses.
And you will be seeing that coming in over the next couple of quarters a more still given the other acquisitions on the expense line on the revenue line but you should be accepting that over a number of years will be really helping – that these businesses really will be helping aiding our growth.
From a dilution point of view I already talked about the 6% to 8% in 2014.
I think you should still expect some dilution in 2015 probably to the tune of half of that number.
Just remember that these acquisitions are lapped during the year.
Different ones are done at different times of the year.
The impact of that dilution will depend on that portion of the impact in the calendar and that portion will run over into the next year as well.
That’s what Martina is referring to.
By and large most of the deals we do you would get – even if they’ve got revenue there may be a dilution in the first year because they are ending up either putting an investment into their capability to either raise that safety and security capabilities or their accounting and compliance capabilities to what we would feel comfortable.
We have just given how that interfaces with the rest of our company.
And so a lot of money goes into that effort into upgrading the accounting into upgrading the compliance into upgrading their firewalls into upgrading their safety systems their capabilities inside with security hiring of a few new people.
That’s what goes into the first slot.
That tends to create some dilution.
Companies like C-SAM on the other hand are all about rolling out MasterPass and all that you want to do in the mobile space.
As I said we’re in 10 countries already.
That’s way more than anybody else is in.
And by the way we are adding four more by the end of the year.
And in two years we’re going to be in 75% of our GDV.
I doubt we could have done that without the acquisition of C-SAM and its inmate capability of that very talented workforce that they have.
Thanks.
Just as to follow any comment on the current pipeline of future deals? You will listen to us when we have a day to tell you about it.
Thanks so much.
Honestly we – I’ve been here these five years now almost.
I think Martina and I have probably looked at 100 plus deals right.
And we have done two before this year three maybe including Truaxis which has capability small.
And now you’ve added these five here.
Some of the five we’ve done just now like ECS we’ve been – we bought a share in ECS two years ago and we’ve worked with them for two years before entering into this transaction.
We’ve been working with C-SAM for well over two years as well.
So lot of these deals they are in the hopper for a while and there are others in the hopper.
I have just no ability to predict to you when exactly they may come to fruition or frankly we’ll just get away from them because they don’t work either in a return sense or a management capability sense or a geography sense or a product set sense or – it’s going to fit one of those strategic means and that’s kind of how its constructed.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Jim Schneider<i> </i>of<i> </i>Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering if you could just comment on the domestic assessments yields that you mentioned the lower yield trend you saw in Q2.
How should we think about that trend continuing or reversing over the next few quarters please? Look I think you should be thinking about that trend continuing.
This is not a new trend.
We had been seeing that for a number of years actually.
And you will continue to see it as we are really growing in a major way in markets outside of the United States in many emerging markets where they have certain structures and in some markets you have domestic schemes where you have to compete against.
And so you’re going to have to align your pricing structure in that way.
In addition to that look at all of the things that we’re doing in the financial inclusion space.
Ajay was talking a little bit about it.
When people get an electronic payment means in their hand first.
Typically they’re accessing ATMs first and pulling cash out of the ATMs and then they walk across the street to be buying something in the store.
That is typically a lower yielding transaction for us.
As we are actually working with those countries and with those consumers to be migrating them to be not going to the ATM but directly to the store that is where you are going to see some movements from us in terms of being able to get a higher yield but I think you should continue to see that trend for quite sometime to come.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Moshe Katri of Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Is it possible to quantify the impacts on the Chase conversion in terms of what’s embedded in your guidance for the year? And any sort of color on the potential margin or a yield impact from that? Thanks.
Yes.
So Moshe actually all of that is comprehended in what my thought said about 2014 revenues.
It’s also comprehended in the 2013 to 2015 performance targets that we laid out.
It’s just – we saw only a little bit in the second quarter right.
You saw a little bit of an impact when you look in particular in our U.S.
credit numbers even though they are very strong at the 8% range.
And you are going to see more in the third and the fourth quarter.
We think that a fairly large portion of the portfolio will be rolling off but we also believe that some remaining portion of the portfolio will be rolling off in the first and the second quarter.
As we told you before we do not have a schedule from Chase so we don’t really know.
This is all our own internal projections.
And as we’re having in these earnings calls we’ll update you.
And anything on yield or margin impacts? On the yield I think you should see some relatively same yields that you saw over the last couple of years.
I think you should see very similar yields development going forward.
There is not going to be too much of a difference.
Yes remember our yield is comprised of many different things.
It’s just not just one client even if they are a decent sized one.
It’s all to do with geography.
It has to do with mix of products.
It has to do with mix of clients.
It has to do with so many factors that trying to isolate that one client’s yield impact on MasterCard’s total.
That’s the rat hole you’re going into.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Darrin Peller of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Trends I mean even beyond cross-border on the top line look pretty strong at least versus our estimates.
I mean notably the transaction processing line in particular also I mean it grew.
And it grew materially faster than the actual transaction process growth itself again.
Just so if you can give us a little more color on sort of what drives that difference? And then secondly on the other revenue line.
Anything that is notable there from the sequential revenue increase? Yes okay.
So first of all from a transaction processing fee point of view you have a little bit of pricing in there which is by the way coming off in the third quarter as you have a little bit of the acquisition revenues in there okay.
So while that is not a real driver on the total top line at some acquisition revenues as in the transaction processing fees.
And by the way some of that – some little acquisition revenues is also in the other growth line but the over revenue growth line is really driven by a couple of factors.
One our Advisors consulting business is doing extremely well.
This is the business that is really helping many many banks as well as merchants around the world to be executing on the projects that they have to execute on.
Secondly you’re seeing our information services business that is where we are actually doing the data utilization and really helping people to be analyzing some of the things that they would like to do.
That is really coming to fruition.
And lastly we are also seeing some very nice growth with Access Prepaid.
So for instance we talked to you last quarter or the quarter before about Qantas.
Some of these deals that Access Prepaid are doing are actually going into the line item.
All right.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Brendler of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask sort of a large – a broader strategic question on pricing.
It seems like you had a little bit of tailwind this quarter that is lapping and sort of gone away next quarter it sounds like.
So not much pricing for the rest of this year.
But as you look out and I know you’re always opportunistic but it seems like one of your largest competitors has been more drawing a line in the sand on pricing.
And I was just wondering if that in anyway impacts your thinking and how you view pricing going forward relative to how you use pricing over the last four five years? Thanks.
Well we have to look at pricing in isolation.
Pricing has to be part of the business and we have to be sure in terms of the value that our products develop that we put the right kind of pricing in the market in order to make sure that people are using our products.
And from thereon that is our pricing stats.
And that has really not changed over the last few years I would say.
So you see so for some years where we have fairly small pricing for some years we have a little larger pricing.
And I don’t think from a strategic point of view we have seen changes in the market that would lead us to believe that we are changing our thinking on that.
My view is – by the way just to be clear the impact of pricing in the second quarter of this year.
Yes there as some impact leftover in the cross-border area but if you look at our total revenue growth for the quarter there was very little impact from pricing.
Just to be clear.
That is there in the first quarter it was not there in the second quarter.
The second part of this is that if you look on our strategy on pricing.
Our strategy on pricing is that we effectively look – there is so many lines of pricing in so many countries that people are always looking like Martina said for the opportunity at the right place where the value equation makes sense.
I very consciously took pricing off the table as part of our guidance when I came because I don’t believe that’s the strategy for the company.
The strategy for our company to grow our franchise and to grow our revenue and keep taking some pricing benefits as they come.
And that’s what we are doing.
And could you talk about how our numbers are doing this quarter or last quarter vis-à-vis any other competitor.
I don’t even look at it as a traditional competitor.
I look at our growth in the space of how much opportunity there is in our industry.
And I think 13% revenue growth is a good place to be.
I agree.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from James Friedman of Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
I wanted to ask about the commercial product.
Ajay had alluded to the progress there in some of your prepared remarks.
Two questions there.
Do you believe you’re taking market share in commercial? And secondly is it biased more domestically versus internationally? Thank you.
Hi.
So first I am very glad you use the carefully word prepared word prepared.
Barbara thinks I don’t follow my prepared remarks and she was making jokes about it before we started the call about my ad living [ph].
So anyway I will remind her of that and I will ask her to talk to you in great detail.
Now the actual commercial product thing.
Yes we are gaining share.
We’ve been gaining share for a few years now two to three years.
I actually think there is more opportunities up ahead.
If we can keep executing on the hard work that our product teams have done to put together a value process that make sense and there is more to be done in that space.
We are really on a journey on this whole commercial space.
I don’t believe MasterCard had adequately worked in this area five seven years ago.
So I think we’re really getting to our right place there.
Just [indiscernible] is it biased on the U.S.? Not really.
Actually to make sure I answer the question correctly we are growing in commercial around the world.
The U.S.
was the one that first jumped on to executing against the improved product quality and using all our tools like Smart Data and Virtual Cards and Purchasing Cards and all those pieces and they worked on it.
They now move overseas as well to other regions but it started in the U.S.
The commercial card tends to be used not just domestically but also cross-border just by nature of the kind of the book it aims at.
So it’s got a mix of everything inside there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Glenn Greene of Oppenheimer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I want to go back to maybe Martina for the pricing just to clarify the impact in the quarter and going forward.
And I realize I guess it was the 4 point benefit on the cross-border which I guess was a little bit more than I would have thought but I think more importantly just to sort of make sure we’re on the same page for the back half.
Are we fully anniversaried on the cross-border going into 3Q and should the delta on volume and revenue growth would be something like maybe five points of overall revenue growth and volume growth going into the back half.
Is that the right way to think about it? So first of all we had – yes the pricing was pretty much in cross-border.
I call it as the 4 PPT.
That was much lower than what you saw in the first quarter.
In the first quarter in that line item it was actually 10 PPT.
And yes that is anniversarying in the third quarter.
So you are not going to see that going forward.
And then there was a little bit as I said from a transaction processing fee point of view but when you look at the overall net revenues and you extrapolate those line items to overall net revenues overall pricing in the quarter actually was a relatively small very small contributor.
And how you should be thinking about that is all of these thoughts that we have about pricing roll into what we are saying about 2014 what we see from a net revenue point of view as well as roll into our long-term performance targets.
That’s where we are wrapping it into.
Yes I was thinking more about you’ve had a delta on the volume and revenue growth negatively because of the strong intra-European volumes? Yes.
And you’re going to continue to see that likely just because when you see the growth of the intra versus the inter-regional volume developing.
So Europeans and the fact that was little bit even has changed when you look versus the year ago volume Europeans are staying closer to home both it looks like from a pleasure point of view as well as from a business point of view.
And as long as they stay closer to home our European cross-border transactions are priced lower than the inter-regional transactions.
So that’s where the mix is coming in and the relative growth of inter-regional versus intra-European numbers impacting those mix.
I don’t see that changing for at least a number of quarters to come.
Okay thank you.
Let me answer this.
It’s just really interesting if you look beyond this a little bit and to understand what’s going with the Europeans for example or other – if you look at all our data on which are the hottest travel places around the world you’ve got London you’ve got Bangkok you’ve got Paris and cities like that.
If you look at that data tourism into Southeast Asia has been impacted over the last six eight months because you’ve had some unrest in Thailand you’ve got problems in Vietnam with the Chinese situation.
You’ve got people canceling trips into that part of the world.
It’s similar inside Russia for all the obvious reasons that we’ve been talking about.
So what’s happening also I think in this last quarter or two is that people are staying closer to where they are comfortable and the Europeans in particular are relatively intrepid travelers outside.
They have been – and they travel frequently.
They take a few holidays a year in case you sort of look at how many holidays the Europeans do get in their course of the year they have cut back as Martina is laughing at me.
She is half German half French.
So they take the most holidays in the world.
But the fact is that if you sort of look at what’s going on there there is a genuine difference right now in the way people are traveling.
It just is – and that’s an addition to what’s going on with the China where you can see the impact of a change in policies and growth on the ground to what’s happening to cross-border volume and trade outside of China.
So this is something you’ve seen.
Having said that I think we have a pretty strong transaction growth rate in our cross-border and we do a lot of work to make that happen both from share but also the kind of work we do with issuers and merchants to make that work in the right way.
Christine I think we have time for one last question.
Okay.
Our last question is from Bob Napoli of William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Martina did I hear you suggest a tax inversion but my real question was… Not really but we like to align our tax footprint to our business structure given that most of our revenues and profits are still rolling up into the U.S.
and into Belgium which are high tax countries but 60% of our business is really in many other jurisdictions.
Right okay.
But my real question was… No tax inversion.
Okay.
With the changes in technology with the EMV higher focus on security.
Do you think that – has MasterCard benefited – do you think you’re gaining some market share head-to-head when it comes down to bigger focus on technology? I don’t know.
I do know that we’ve put a lot of effort in the space on both innovation and technology.
Look at MasterPass.
I consider MasterPass to be the wallet part of it.
There is more to come.
As I said it’s an old platform.
And the fact that we’re live in more countries that we’ve actually got tens of thousands of merchant signed up that we’ve got some momentum on the ground in terms of MasterPass being both an online and in-app and a physical space play.
And the fact that it was designed in a way that allows banks and merchants to integrate very easily much easier than many competing wallets.
All of that’s helping us when we go to sell.
The focus on security is helping us when we go to sell.
But I don’t know that I could pick one of those and tell you that a client or merchant or a bank or a government is turning business to me just because of that.
I actually don’t think that anybody thinks so single patterned way.
It’s always a very complicated discussion.
It always has pricing built into it as you know but also always has all these other aspects.
And I think all I am trying to do in the company what we are doing is to assemble a portfolio of assets there the security part the EMV part the innovation part the loyalty and rewards the processing.
That’s why you’re seeing us invest in those areas.
That’s where our organic and inorganic money is going.
It’s going into those very specific areas because we think they help us build a portfolio to go top line [ph] and that’s what we’re trying to do.
Thank you.
That was it? Last question done.
Back to me.
Okay.
Closing remarks I guess.
So we delivered strong results for the first half of 2014 in spite of this mixed economic environment.
And we are focused on delivering yet another good year.
We have worked through the regulatory challenges in Russia and Europe.
We’ve got a track record of managing through these situations in other markets.
Every situation is different but we have managed our way.
We feel confident we will be able to navigate our way through these most recent one results.
On the other side of this we see many opportunities around the world that kind of provides some balances to these challenges we talk about.
We’re investing in new technologies I was just telling Bob and other services both organically and through acquisitions including our recent transactions in the loyalty processing person-to-person and mobile spaces.
As Martina mentioned that pace of M&amp;A activity has accelerated recently.
There is a shortage of growth opportunities in our business frankly.
And while our investments are having an impact on our OpEx right now we believe that we are investing in a thoughtful way that ensures continued top line growth and good long-term return for all of you who invest in our stock.
I am hoping many of you will be able to join us at one of our Investor Days in September either in St.
Louis or in Dublin where you will have a chance to hear more about our strategic focus areas and you can get to touch and feel some of our innovative products and services.
Thank you for your continued support to the company.
And thank you for being on our call today.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MasterCard Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us for a discussion about our third quarter 2014 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
Even if you think you have already dialed into the queue you will need to register again following our prepared comments.
This morning’s earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at mastercard.com.
We’ve added a new table in the slide appendix to the deck that breaks out the impact of acquisitions as an easy reference for those of you who track that detail.
These documents have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one week through November 6.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today’s earnings release I need to remind everyone that today’s call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard’s future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I will now turn the call over to Ajay.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
We had a good third quarter.
We saw a net revenue growth of 13% along with net income and EPS growth rates of 15% and 19% respectively.
So we delivered another quarter of strong results and we’ve continued the momentum you’ve seen from us over the course of this year as we are navigating through I think what everybody would agree is a mixed global economic environment.
So let’s take a look at the underlying global economic trends for the quarter and let’s start with the US and there the recovery continues.
Our SpendingPulse data showed sustained growth over the course of 2014.
US retail sales ex automobiles in the third quarter were up 4.2% and that was a higher number than the second quarter growth of 3.8%.
However the monthly growth trend showed some deceleration with several sectors lodging furniture furnishings grocery experiencing some noticeable slowdowns in September.
So these are mixed trends in the US but overall the underlying indications [have been] positive.
In October the consumer confidence index is up over September as well.
Excluding the impact of the Chase de-conversion in both the second and third quarters our core US GDP growth rate was roughly the same.
Europe’s recovery slowed in the third quarter.
Annual PCE growth projections have been revised down from 3.5% to 3.1% and our SpendingPulse data for the UK also showed third quarter retail sales ex auto growth slowed to 2.9% down from the 4.8% growth that we saw in the second quarter.
Consumer confidence economic sentiment also down slightly but unemployment levels continued to show improvement across the region.
MasterCard’s total European volume growth for the third quarter was in the low teens and process transaction growth in the high-teens about the same as the last quarter.
And the region’s growth was driven by a number of countries including Russia Turkey and Sweden.
In Latin America our third quarter SpendingPulse data for Brazil showed retail sales growth of 2.5% down from 4.1% in the second quarter.
Across the region annual GDP growth expectations were also revised down from 2.3 to 1.3.
The primary exception in this whole thing is Mexico where they continued to benefit from improving exports to the US and our business in the region remains solid.
Third quarter GDP and process transaction growth is in the mid-teens again about the same as last quarter.
In Asia Pacific there is a decline in business sentiment in the third quarter mostly because of everybody’s being concerned about the economic slowdown in China but consumer confidence held steady.
And our business in the region continues to do well GDP growth in the mid-teens process transaction growth in the mid-20s in the third quarter down slightly from last quarter.
So in summary the economic environment is mixed.
The US is in relatively decent shape.
We’ve got some challenges in Europe and Brazil that we will keep our eye on but we are not seeing anything to cause us immediate concern and you will hear that from Martina when she updates you on our October trend volumes.
So before we go to our business highlights a couple of legal and regulatory matters.
First of all nothing to report new on the European legislation.
The council of ministers continues their discussions regarding the proposed legislation.
We remain actively engaged with all parties.
We still believe that the proposed legislation is most likely to be adopted sometime in the first half of 2015.
Now Russia.
As you know there are some new amendments to their national payments law.
These have just recently been signed into law.
What those amendments do is principally two things.
And the first is the deadline for compliance has now been extended further to March 31 2015.
And the second is related to local processing.
As you know the original law required us to find a local processing partner for domestic transactions.
And we’d begun to do that through an RFP process.
The new amendments clarify that the local processing partner will now be the central bank’s new domestic switch.
So we clearly need to work out all the operational details to connect to this new switch but nothing else has really changed in terms of being able to issue MasterCard branded cards for use in the Russian market or for that matter the potential financial impact of this new law for us.
If you recall in the last quarter earnings call we had given some idea of the dimensions of that financial impact and our best estimate continues to be something less than $50 million on an annualized basis.
You’ve probably also seen some recent news stories about the Chinese government announcing that it will allow qualified domestic and foreign companies to apply for domestic bank card switching in China.
This is the first of many steps we will get to know what it will take to become a qualifying institution nor do we know what the broader regulatory framework will look like.
And of course there is no -- right now no indication of timing.
So while we are awaiting all these details the fact is we are pleased with the announcement.
We see it as a good step in the right direction.
So with that we’ll move on to some of our recent business activity.
You’ve kind of heard from us during the recent investor days in September and you’ve had an opportunity to see first-hand a number of the product and service innovations we are rolling out.
So rather than go back over the deals and the innovations I am only going to pick a few items that we may not have talked about in those inventor days.
A year ago on this call we talked about tokenization the development that everybody was focused on in the area of payment safety and security.
We talked about how we were working with the broader group that included technology companies and merchants and trying to create better consumer and merchant experiences while ensuring safer and more secure transactions.
And for the recent launch of Apple Pay will only help with the convergence of the physical and digital worlds and we are actually pleased to be working in partnership with Apple and they are using our digital technology and our security protocol to enable MasterCard credit and debit cardholders to use Apple Pay.
It is the simplicity of Apple Pay that makes it attractive the ability to make a payment with as little as your fingerprint.
We’ve worked closer with Apple over the last two years and helped them deliver a user-friendly safe payment experience.
We’ve provided the most secure combination of payment technology [indiscernible] more issuers continue to sign up.
I think the most current number is something like 500 and is growing.
Now of course Apply Pay has gotten a lot of attention.
However there are many other elements of mobile payments and we are working with all of them.
And our strategy has been to work with all players to ensure that we have the capabilities to meet the needs of different market models and make choices available to consumers.
So our most consumers have a phone a number of them have PC a tablet a game system a connected appliance and increasingly connected cars.
So our innovations using MasterPass are all designed to work across all of those devices.
As many of you saw last month at our investor days you saw a number of those devices actually in operation.
So remember that tokenization used by all of these digital payment options is based on an industry open standard that the networks have developed together.
As a result others will be able to leverage this technology to enable secure digital transactions across any device think of it like EMV an open industry standard that allowed all issuers to issue cards with chips that conform to that open industry standard.
That’s what this tokenization is all about.
Now all these new mobile payment options are putting more focus on contactless.
And we continue to drive contactless technology which is a key component of our cash displacement efforts.
Momentum is building globally.
All terminals are being replaced with new ones that are contactless enabled while being installed.
Australia is leading in the adoption of contactless payments.
More than half of all face-to-face transactions under $107 are now contactless.
We are also seeing progress in countries such as Canada in Turkey in Poland and just recently in the UK we worked with Transport for London to expand contactless payments to the underground enabling commuters to use their credit debit and prepaid cards across London’s entire transit system.
In the first two weeks alone over 1 million contactless journeys were taken.
And this adds to the list of transit agencies around the world whom we are collaborating with we’re trying [ph] to use our thought leadership in the transit space to migrate their riders from cash to electronic payments.
So Apple Pay and Transport for London are just a couple of recent examples of how we are creating better shopping experiences for our cardholders using contactless technology.
As you know we just opened our new technology hub in New York City earlier this month.
And we’re just continuing to invest in innovation designed to make payments easier and safer.
There are a couple of examples that demonstrate how we’re creating a better cross-border shopping experience.
In this quarter we announced a partnership with Transforex.
This is a company that is working with 7 leading tax groups in China to launch the largest tax refund platform in China.
Chinese travelers leave as much as €3 billion worth of tax refunds unclaimed.
The idea of this new platform will make the tax refund process much easier for the Chinese travelers by enabling them to receive their refund back to their MasterCard and do it all from the comfort of their own home when they return from that trip.
In South Africa our prepaid program manager Access Prepaid Worldwide is working with the VAT Refund Administrator of the South African revenue service to migrate their single currency refund card to a four-currency MasterCard prepaid program allowing tourists to reclaim their VAT as they leave the country.
So that’s just two examples in that tax refund space.
Finally our work with governments continues to grow.
We’ve talked about this a few times in the context of developing markets and financial inclusion.
But we are actually doing a lot work with governments in the developed markets as well.
So for example the UK government has awarded the Royal Bank of Scotland the contract for their e-purchasing card.
Over the next two years all 17 central government departments the Ministry of Defense and some regional governments will migrate their existing government purchasing cards to MasterCard’s purchase and pay solution it kind of combines our multi-card smart data and inControl technologies.
And of course we are continuing to add programs focused on financial inclusion in the developing markets and I will give you a couple of examples.
In Mexico BANSEFI is converting their entire $6.5 million social benefits card portfolio to MasterCard debit and that’s going to be enabled with the EMV chip technology.
And in Africa EcoCash which is a mobile money provider in Zimbabwe launched the MasterCard Companion debit card that’s linked to their mobile money wallet a first in Africa by the way.
The card will be issued to more than 3 million EcoCash customers making it the largest rollout of EMV cards in Zimbabwe to date.
So with that let me turn the call over to Martina for an update on our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on Page 3 of our slide deck where you see the as-reported as well as the FX-adjusted growth rates.
All of my comments pertain to the FX-adjusted figures which are essentially the same as our as-reported numbers.
We’re very pleased to deliver strong performance again this quarter.
Net revenue growth was 13%.
This combined with operating expense growth of 12% and a lower tax rate resulted in a 15% increase in net income.
EPS growth was 19% and share repurchases contributed $0.04 per share.
During the third quarter we repurchased 5.3 million shares at a cost of approximately $400 million which reflects a slower pace of buybacks we expected.
Through October 23 we purchased an additional 1.7 million shares at a cost of approximately $120 million and we now have $310 million remaining under the current authorization.
We continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
Cash flow from operations was $1.4 billion and we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investment of about $6.3 billion.
So let me turn to Page 4 where you can see the operational metrics for the third quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 12% on a local currency basis down slightly from last quarter.
Overall our US GDV grew 7% which was down from last quarter.
On the credit side volume growth was 7% down from last quarter primarily due to the Chase de-conversion.
Similar to last quarter our US debit growth was 8%.
Outside of the US volume growth was 14% on a local currency basis and continues to be driven by APMEA.
Cross-border volume grew 15% on a local currency basis and that’s just slightly lower than the 16% we saw in the second quarter.
Growth in Europe APMEA was in the mid to high teens.
Key contributors to this growth included the UK Germany Italy and Sweden.
The deceleration of cross-border volume growth in markets like Canada China and Russia continued into the third quarter.
Turning to Page 5 you would see process transactions grew 10% globally to almost $11 billion.
We continued to see double-digit growth in most regions.
Growth was down from the 12% we saw in the second quarter primarily due to the US and Latin America.
Now globally the number of cards grew 8% with 2.1 billion MasterCard and Maestro branded cards.
Let’s turn to Page 6 for some highlights on a few of our revenue line items.
Overall net revenue growth was 13%.
In total acquisitions contributed 3 PPT to our net revenue growth.
Domestic assessments grew 7% while worldwide GDV grew 12%.
This 5 PPT gap is primarily due to the lower than average revenue yields in many markets outside of the US due to market structure domestic payment schemes or a higher proportion of cash volume.
This is similar to what we've seen in prior quarters.
Cross-border volume fees grew 13% while cross-border volume grew 15%.
The gap between revenue and volume growth continues to be due for the most part to the higher mix of intra-European activity.
But the gap is narrower this quarter versus what we saw in the recent quarters due to better mix with an increase in the proportion of Europeans traveling outside of Europe versus within Europe.
Transaction processing fees grew 13% primarily driven by the 10% growth in process transactions and other revenues grew 38% driven largely by contribution from our Pinpoint acquisition as well as our Advisors business.
Moving onto page 7 you can see that total operating expenses was up12% in the quarter in line with our expectations.
Of this growth 9 PPT was due to expenses related to the acquisitions along with our majority-owned HomeSend investment and were primarily in the G&amp;A line.
Now when looking just at the 14% growth in G&amp;A our acquisitions contributed 11 PPT to the total growth and the balance was driven mainly by the organic investments we're making in strategic initiatives.
And finally 19 million increase in D&amp;A versus the same period last year continues to be the result of our growing level of capital expenditures principally due to the additional investments in technology to support our strategic initiatives but also includes the impact of the amortization of intangible assets related to our recent acquisitions.
Turning to Slide 8 let’s discuss what we’ve seen in October through the 21<sup>st</sup>.
Most of our business drivers are up compared to the third quarter.
All of these have been factored into our full-year outlook.
The numbers through October 21 are as follows: Starting with processed volume we saw a global growth of 11% up 1 percentage point from the third quarter.
In the US our processed volume grew 7% that’s very similar to what we saw last quarter.
Processed volume outside the US grew 16% about 2 PPT higher than the third quarter primarily due to improvements that we see in Europe and in Latin America.
Part of this is attributable to one of our deal wins in the Nordics as well as overall volume increases in both regions.
Globally processed transaction growth was 11% 1 PPT higher than what we saw in the third quarter also driven by improvements in Europe and in Latin America.
And with respect to cross-border our volumes grew at 17% globally about 2 PPT higher than the third quarter driven by improvements in Europe.
And we saw a strong growth across most major markets including contributions from online travel programs.
Looking forward let's start with our long-term performance objectives for the 2013 through 2015 period which remain unchanged.
We continue to believe that our business can deliver an 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR and at least 20% EPS CAGR.
We are also committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
Remember these objectives are on a constant currency basis and exclude new M&amp;A activities.
Moving on let me offer some commentary about full-year 2014 which is mostly unchanged from my comments last month at our investor day.
Our expectation for full year net revenue growth before any contribution from acquisition is now slightly better than the low end of our three-year range we previously thought due to our better-than-expected third-quarter revenue performance primarily due to higher underlying volume and transactions.
Additionally while the pace of the Chase card attrition year to date has been essentially in line with our internal projections the volume shift has been a bit slower than we initially anticipated.
Therefore we now estimate less than half of the volume to roll-out this year with the remainder in 2015.
We continue to expect about 1 PPP contribution to our 2014 as reported net revenue growth from our M&amp;A transactions.
Overall we haven't changed our view about total operating expense growth for full year 2014 from what we said last month at investor day.
We expect the as reported growth rate for full year 2014 to be in the low teens after considering the impact from M&amp;A activities and this does include high teens growth in G&amp;A and D&amp;A growth in the 25% range again totally in keeping with what we discussed previously.
Our view of potential EPS dilution from the 5 M&amp;A deals that we also previously discussed continues to be about $0.05 annually for each of 2014 and 2015.
You should now assume a full-year tax rate of slightly below 32%.
The change in outlook is primarily due to our third quarter tax rate coming in lower than we expected due to some discrete benefits that only became known as we finalized the quarter.
And as I have said before although the exact timing is uncertain there may be some potential to lower our tax rate further as we continue to work on several initiatives geared at better aligning our tax structure with our non-US business footprint.
Finally with respect to FX in 2014 if the rates of our functional currencies remain similar to where they are today so that’s the Euro trading at the 1.27 level and the Brazilian real at the 2.44 level for the rest of the year the net impact of the euro and the real would be a slight headwind for the full year.
Further beyond the functional currency impact of the euro and the real we have already seen a 1 PPT headwind to net revenue growth year to date from other currencies depreciating against the US dollar and the euro.
As I have said before we carefully manage those exposures but we have also assumed some impact for the rest of this year which will likely continue into 2015.
So now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Martina.
We’re now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
And in order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
Christine?  (Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Bill Carcache of Nomura Securities.
It looks like your revenues per dollar volume reached an all-time high this quarter.
Can you remind us how you think about this metric and how sustainable it is at these levels? And then separately I was hoping that there has been some evidence of competition becoming more intense in the co-brand spaces some contracts have come up for renewal.
I was hoping that you could just comment on what you're seeing there? Thank you.
So I am going to take the first question Bill.
Look how we look at revenues is -- not every revenue is driven equally.
We have domestic assessment fees which are predominantly driven by the volume and the volume growth that we have all around the world.
And there you have to make some significant differentiation between how much is driven domestically versus how much is driven cross-border.
So the mix is very important on that.
Secondly in a number of countries we’re actually processing most of the volume and that is when we get an additional transaction processing fee but there are a number of countries where we are not processing the volume so that is also driving the mix in terms of how much we are processing in a country and where you see the growth on that versus where we are not processing and where you’re using the growth in that that is very much an impact.
Further on this quarter's numbers you did also see an impact on the – from the recent acquisitions that we did and you see that in the other revenue line item which increased by 38% and that is mostly driven by the terrific acquisition that we did down in Australia the company is called Pinpoint and it’s a play in the loyalty space.
Bill it’s Ajay.
About the co-brand space actually the co-brand space has been pretty competitive for quite a while.
I have talked about it a number of times in the earnings calls about how we’re going about trying to be players wherein we [ph] win there regularly.
And we have been winning a number of deals there.
In fact I didn’t mention it this time because over the investor day period and then we’ve talked about this a little while but for example we won RAI [ph] over the course of this quarter – it’s every quarter that deals would come and go in the US and overseas.
And that’s a competitive space as I think new in that space.
I think the one development that’s interesting in that space has happened over time is that more and more the merchant driven co-brands tend to be driven with an issuer and the network is being separately approached during the course of the co-brand process.
Years ago it used to be that they were done together.
That’s kind of a trend that's pretty much changed – pretty clearly in the US not so much overseas.
So it’s a competitive space and it’s a space that you have to be very careful about both in terms of pricing but also in terms of the value-added features that you can bring to the party when you try and go win that co-brand.
And you will kind of win some you won’t win all of them so nothing new on that space.
Thank you.
The next question is from Smitti [ph] of Morgan Stanley.
Maybe just a follow up on the other revenue line items.
Can you just help us maybe rank order the various pieces of the business that are in there I mean loyalty advisors data analytics repaid and then from maybe largest to smallest and also just wanted to get some additional perspective on how meaningful data analytics is to the revenue contribution today and given the progress that you’ve highlighted at the analyst day on this front? Look Smitti the other revenue line item is driven by a lot of different things.
Certainly some of the items that you have been calling out i.e.
our loyalty business and it’s not just the Pinpoint business that have actually very thriving big loyalty business across-the-board in a number of our regions.
It’s one of the big drivers in there.
Our advisors business which actually consists of three different pieces quite a few of the revenues that are related to those pieces both in the consulting side as well as in the data side is actually related to that.
And then we have a number of other businesses little bit on the program management that we are doing out of Access Prepaid et cetera that are driving that line item and I'm very pleased to say actually that all of those businesses are growing very nicely.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bob Napoli of William Blair.
Just on the Apple Pay I was wondering if you could maybe give a little bit of color on what you’ve seen from your customers and uploading and then how do you balance working with Apple Pay and with your MasterPass product and with other wallets – are there conflicts in there that you have and -- so that would be helpful a little more color on that.
Bob it’s Ajay.
The people signing up for Apple Pay is actually pretty good.
I would say the first few weeks have been very encouraging.
You see us in – if you’d been to the Giants game and Kansas City Royals game in the San Francisco stadium which unfortunately I didn't go to see even though I was hanging around in San Francisco but I met a number of people who have been there.
We were using and demonstrating the work of Apple Pay for purchasing in the stadium we had advertising we had activities and promotions going on in there.
So there are a lot going on in the Apple Pay space right now.
I don’t know that I would sort of agree that it conflicts with the stuff that we're doing in anywhere else in mobile.
I think you have to think of mobile and digital as a very wide space.
One of those spaces – I have been looking at many different aspects to it.
One aspect to it is are you going to put your credentials on the phone like in Apple but are you going to do it through postcard emulation which is what many others will do or are you going to do it through NFC like Apple or is it in app like Apple or is it browser based like others.
There are so many elements through mobile and digital commerce I wouldn’t call it conflicts I’d rather think that there is a lot of opportunity and lot of open space.
The objective of MasterPass – MasterPass is not just a wallet by the way – please don’t think of it like somebody else’s wallet it’s not.
MasterPass is a broad set of technologies it’s got wallet yes which is both wallet branded as MasterPass but also a wallet servers for our issuers and merchants.
We do value-added services with MasterPass loyalty programs will be in there.
In the future there will be new additive ideas in that but I would label cost [ph] could be in there in-store checkout is coming in there online is already there with MasterPass.
So it’s got a bunch of things in it and those full elements of the MasterPass strategy is what we are rolling out around the world.
We are now in 11 countries the US plus 10 others Australia Canada China Italy New Zealand Poland Romania Singapore South Africa UK others.
We are adding Taiwan soon.
So we are in a number of countries with MasterPass we are working with different banks of different sizes in these countries ranging from Commonwealth bank and WestBank [ph] in Australia and New Zealand to BMO in Canada with Citibank and Credit Union in the US to Standard Bank in South Africa.
So it’s got all that going on there is 40 000 plus merchant signed up I got to see this as being a series of parallel activities which are all aimed at providing choices to consumers.
And once you do that then they are going to walk with their wallets on their feet on where they go and we want to be able to be the provider of that space.
We are not in the consumer business directly.
We are a B2B2C company and therefore we are trying to be that in every piece of what we do.
Our next question is from Jason Kupferberg of Jefferies.
Thanks guys.
Just to start can you just clarify what the cross-border volume growth ex Western Europe would have been and then can you separately clarify your stance on when you might implement tokenization pricing? We know that you’ve got the rate card out there but your biggest competitor has obviously said they are waiving those fees through 2015 so just wondering if the same is true for MasterCard? Yes on the latter question it’s exactly the same.
And on the first question from a cross-border ex Europe typically we don’t give these numbers but it's not too different if you’re actually excluding Europe for the MasterCard volume side.
So you are waiving your pricing through 2015 as well? Yes.
Yes that’s actually out in the market.
We said we’d only put it in there starting at the end of 2015.
We put out our card and said we will do it early 2016.
So that’s not new position [ph].
Our next question is from Darrin Peller of Barclays.
Just on the cross-border growth rate I think you mentioned Martina earlier that the spread narrowed a bit more because of the mix in terms of intra-Europe versus people traveling from Europe to elsewhere so that’s good to see.
I guess just if you could touch on were there still any lingering additional pricing changes in that line and then maybe if you could just comment on the potential for merchant assessment change on the horizon as well? Yeah so first of all on the pricing side there is no impact from pricing in that line item.
And in fact when you look at our entire revenue growth there is really no material impact at all on pricing as most of you know our main pricing actions that we took some time ago have been pretty much all lapping with the second quarter of 2014.
So you are just not seeing that in this quarter at this point in time.
And in terms of future pricing actions look first of all we are not going after pricing in order to make our top line so when you actually look at the 2013 to 2015 long-term performance objectives we have relatively small aligned pricing embedded in that.
And if there were to be any changes we will be talking about it when they were to be evident in our financials but we don't really see anything at this point in time.
You’ve just got to remember we’ve got thousands of lines of pricing in the system and there is some pricing we are going on in every country while we speak.
So pricing is a part of the way we approach the entire marketplace.
But I wouldn’t tell you that there is some strategic plan to put in some new price starting on a particular date next year kind of stuff.
That’s not currently in our outlook.
Our next question is from Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank.
Hi just want to ask on the Chase card transition.
Are we a quarter of the way through that or just trying to get a sense of that through the third quarter ’14? And then secondly on FX Martina maybe you could just help us to make sure we’ve got it right.
Are we looking at 2 to 3 points or in the fourth quarter for FX headwind and then if rates held today I just want to start to set our models for next year is it about the similar 2 to 3 point FX headwind for next year as well? Your first question was – Just on Chase migration just want to make sure where we are so far? On the Chase migration so what we said actually for when you look at all of 2014 we probably have less than half of the Chase volume rolling off.
So you would still have some impact for 2015 and the way that it has been rolling off as we said before we didn’t see much in the first and second quarter we saw more in the third quarter.
And I think you should see more in the fourth quarter.
This is all subject to our own estimation.
We don't really have a schedule from the customer but this is the best that we can at least get our hands around it based on what we see today.
From an FX point of view for the fourth quarter we are going to see a little bit of an impact on two things one from a functional currency point of view.
You're going to see about a 2 to 3 PPT impact on all line items and then from a local currency point to view so those are the currency rates other than the euro and the real.
So those are all the foreign exchange payers that are excluded on that versus the US dollar and versus the euro we think we’re going to probably see another one PPT impact for the fourth quarter and that’s very similar to what we saw in the first second and third quarter.
And then into 2015 if rates stay the same? You should expect some headwind of course given the strength of the US dollar versus many currencies in the world.
Our next question is from Moshe Katri of Cowen &amp; Co.
You said quite an impressive success in gaining share in Europe was in Europe during the past year or two.
Is there any way to kind of talk about this in the context of how MasterCard has been competing against Visa Europe and have they been losing market share to MasterCard? Any color on that will be helpful.
[We’ve been going on] for a few years.
I think if you look at the whatever public information that is available for Visa Europe you will find and there is some available you will find that they themselves talk about losing share to us in the course of the last couple of years there.
How we are competing is – it’s not just the Visa Europe we are competing around the world with a series of different things but obviously everybody starts with the conversation around what’s the financial impact for anyone at the other end of the deal.
But we’ve tried to talk about all the things we do with advisors all the things we do with data all the things that we can do with loyalty and rewards and that’s – processing if you look at our strategic plan we used to add all those value-added services so we can be a better service to the issuing community.
And Europe is reflective of that very approach and if you look at the acquisitions we are doing we’ve had success in acquiring stuff in Europe as well both in the prepaid programs space as well as in the space of loyalty and rewards.
That’s what we are up to.
So it’s pretty much the same around the world.
Our next question is from James Schneider of Goldman Sachs.
Understanding that it’s very early days with respect to China and there are still a lot of details to understand.
Can you maybe share with us your approach to the overall Chinese market and how that might differ from other geographies specifically the existence of UnionPay and new entrants likely Alipay in that market and how you might plan to attack the market generally speaking from a top level perspective? So over the last couple of years what we have done there three or four years is that before this whole announcement we were allowed to do – was to do no domestic processing but we were clearly the cobranded card is what you could be with China UnionPay so that when Chinese traveled overseas they could use their cards.
Over the last few years all the new co-brand cards that were being announced I think we were the winner and the overwhelming majority of them I am talking 90 plus percent of those deals over the last two years.
And that helped us a great deal in terms of changing our market share on the ground on cards issued in China where the flow of new cards issued was all coming our way when they were co-brand.
In the meanwhile China UnionPay both operates in China and also have begun to strike over the last many years bilateral deals for acceptance outside of China.
The impact of those depends on the marketplace whether it’s Hong Kong they’re obviously stronger there if it's the United States way weaker.
And so in addition to the fact that we had to compete on the ground in China you have to be thoughtful about what is going on with these bilateral acceptance deals.
And we went and stuck partnerships with China UnionPay to help them where they are expanding some acceptance in return for expanding our acceptance in China.
So when someone like you went there your MasterCard as I hope you carry issued here was being used in China in as many places as possible.
That’s kind of the way we were working kind of like a partner but with a clear acknowledgment that they were in a position that gave them a monopoly benefit inside of China and yet were an interesting partner to play with.
That’s the way we were approaching China.
Meanwhile we were also dealing with the Alibabas and Alipays and the TenCents of the world and in fact we signed work with the Alibaba and Alipay where we were helping them think about cross border acceptance for their websites and helping them tackle fraud and counterfeit goods on their websites and so on.
Now when that changes with this announcement it doesn’t change yet.
The announcement just indicates the direction is there but remember this announcement is innovated now for quite a few months ever since the WTO ruling had its deadline set up.
So what’s really going to matter is how they propose the regulations what’s called a qualifying company would we need to be constructed differently in China to be eligible to be a qualifying company or would we be allowed to participate there with the domestic processing capability? I don’t know the answers to all that yet but in general we’ve already made a number of steps that I will not competitively disclose that allow me to be relatively confident that when they make the right moves we will be able to respond.
That’s kind of where we are.
You had a question there about – how does that differ from other markets – well there isn’t a lot of other examples where a domestically mandated monopolistic switch exists that’s not been our experience.
You could have banks coming together to create domestic debit schemes like Europe used to have in many countries which have been [ph] on the payment systems directive have actually opened that up and that’s one of the ways they are growing in Europe we are seeing more and more domestic transactions in the developed European countries as well.
But – and then there are similar domestically handled – domestic debit switches in Australia and Canada so dealing with domestic debit switches and domestic debit systems is something we’ve had experience on for 30 years.
It’s just that China was uniquely different because not only did you have a domestic switch for debit it is for every card being processed there issued domestically was controlled in terms of who could handle that transaction on the ground.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Brendler of Stifel.
I wanted to ask about the Asia-Pacific market for a second.
Looks like the growth rate there has slowed down a little bit now midteens on an FX adjusted basis as well as it’s been basically since the crisis.
Is that mostly the Russian impact? I know there is also some macro weakness in that area.
But fundamentally do you expect the Asia-Pacific market to return to just the historical stronger growth rates over the medium-term or is it -- that markets are restructuring getting more further along on the secular shift to electronic payments not much secular growth available that will be helpful thanks.
I think secular growth in Asia is still very much available.
The level of cash utilization in the Asian market is the highest probably around the world other than a few Latin American markets.
I mean China and India are still in the 95 to 99 plus percentage of transactions being in cash and that even Japan which is a developed country in that part of the world has a 75% to 80% cash percentage in its transaction in the country.
So I'd be very careful to think that secular growth in Asia is beginning to slow.
I think the real issue in Asia – by the way when you start – when you grow at 15% 20% you’re not growing at 21 of 22% big deal.
And just you should take that in this context.
And it’s still growing very rapidly and ASEAN is probably growing faster than mainland China just because mainland China is genuinely facing a change not just in its GDP growth rate but in the manner of spending on the ground in China with all the different efforts of the leadership of the Chinese government is putting into place on what’s going on in the ground.
So that’s kind of two or three things going on there in China.
India itself had slowed down over the last few years.
It’s actually with the new government beginning to pick up again.
So there is movement in economic growth indicators around there.
There isn't much impact from Russia into Asia that's not what I would lay as the main cause of what we are discussing it’s both the macro growth factors of China and then at the low level of India ASEAN continuing to doing well Australia slowed a little bit over time as the commodity boom has slowed.
You know Japan is going through its own stresses and changes.
But don’t conclude – at least I wouldn’t yet that the secular growth rate of cash converting to electronic in Asia is yesterday story.
I think that’s the moral story yet to come.
Just on that topic since you mentioned it.
I mean India with its plans to leverage national payment scheme like RuPay and it’s not clear at this point how big of a role you guys can play.
How should we be thinking about the opportunity in India? I guess my question was more about -- markets like Hong Kong and Australia that are very highly card penetrated you're not thinking about India as a huge opportunity for MasterCard but maybe that’s not the right way of thinking about it is India still a very much a greenfield for MasterCard? Yes.
And we have some significant growth there and it’s growing actually by quarter.
It is.
Absolutely it is a significant opportunity.
I mean RuPay is not a government mandated local monopoly unlike China UnionPay.
RuPay is an effort by the government to create a national payment switch that operates in parallel and competitive about us and Visa and others.
And clearly when you have a government switch they get certain benefit.
Guess what I was saying we've used to dealing with the domestic switches in a number of countries that’s kind of been true for Europe for the last so many years it’s true for Mexico it’s true for Canada it used to be the case in a number of Latin countries it’s around the world.
We do that -- we can compete on a level playing field because technology is superior fraud capability data analytics the ability to do things with local banks we can do that.
So I still consider India to be an enormous growth opportunity.
Just as by the way I consider China to be an enormous growth opportunity.
And by the way I consider Australia to be an enormous growth opportunity given the relative the penetration of cards because even now the percentage of retail transactions in Australia that are cash versus electronic are still in the majority.
That’s why contactless in Australia has been doing so well for the past two years.
A large number of the retail transactions that were cash in Australia was small ticket and Australia contactless first started doing well in small tickets and now it’s moved up.
That’s why understanding all the way up to Australian 100 dollars more than half of those transactions in just two years have migrated to contactless that’s almost all of it is fighting what used to be cash.
So it’s pretty interesting what’s going on in that part of the world.
As it is the other parts of the world.
I’ve risked of rules violation here but you mentioned it – one more question on that topic.
Australia is there still a surcharging headwind there or has that abated somewhat so thinking about these small ticket transactions I have seen that 30 potentially 40% of retailers potentially surcharge in Australia is that – No no that’s not true.
You get surcharging in a great deal from online transactions where people don’t have much choice.
And that’s always been an issue but in the real world out there yes surcharging is but it’s a small number it changes over the period of quarters and I don’t consider that to be an issue.
This is what I would like to see because I believe that consumers should be able to pay with whatever way they like to pay without having to face surcharges and then by the way the Australian central bank has come back and put in restrictions on the level of surcharge for that very reason.
So there is a lot of stuff going on in the marketplace down there and guess what that’s our life it happens in different countries I still consider Australia to be a growth partner.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Craig Maurer of Autonomous Research.
Two questions considering the slower de-conversion at Chase when you now expect co-brand winds could start to offset that de-converion and additionally we saw the growth in Maestro cards continue to fall and drop to flat should we expect to see that turn negative in the coming quarters? On the first one Craig we had always had our wins in the co-brand space will be offsetting the Chase de-conversion over time.
So that we are not talking quarters we are talking over a couple of years.
And you will see that coming in from a volume point of view already seeing some of the co-brand wins actually coming in and you will see that more coming in next year.
In terms of the growth of the Maestro cards look the Maestro business is very good and very live and what we are doing around the globe is that from time to time we are giving – we are working with our clients in terms of whether the Maestro product is appropriate or whether they would like to go with MasterCard debit card and you will see a number of switches in terms of where portfolios are going simply because of the kind of product construct and services that our customers are demanding.
So that’s really what you are seeing going on it is more switching from a Maestro to a MasterCard debit card portfolio.
Craig I would like to just make sure that the Chase de-conversion issue doesn’t overtake what everybody is thinking.
So just try to think through for a second.
The co-brand cards have a certain vintage built-up all cards have that behaviour.
The Chase cards were already vintage.
When they go up they go up for the certain volume spend pattern.
New cards take some time to build up to that pattern.
You will see in the number of cards being issued that the US is continuing to do well and frankly despite losing the Chase de-conversion of the consumer business that you are seeing you are seeing that our GDV is still doing okay that’s because we are growing with the other cards as well as in the commercial space.
So our portfolio is a healthy mix of many clients across many types of cards and what we are trying to do as we win and lose clients is still stay focused on growing the overall business in a tangible way.
That’s what you are seeing.
We’ve got 13% revenue growth this quarter we had good revenue growth for the past few quarters through this so called Chase de-conversion.
In the meanwhile by the way Chase has been a really good partner on a number of other cards they are doing with us co-brands as well as large corporate.
So life goes on from there and there are other wins that keep coming and going and that’s the context in which you should see our business portfolio.
As I know you understand because we’ve travelled together a couple of times and we’ve talked about this.
But I just want to make sure everybody on the call gets that picture.
Our next question is from Lisa Ellis of Sanford Bernstein.
I had a question – one quick follow up question on China UnionPay I am wondering if you are seeing them at all in issuer negotiations outside of China they have been making some noise on directly verified by us that they are starting to get some traction signing contracts outside of China let’s start with that.
So first of all glad to hear a woman’s voice on the phone asking me a question.
Honestly I haven’t seen what you are seeing.
I have heard noise about it in Russia for sure when the whole situation with the sanctions happened.
Clearly there was noise on the ground of issuers looking into possibility and I can understand that at that time although that didn’t go very far in the meanwhile the law changed and has amended and adapted.
So I think it depends where that goes.
So I don’t know.
And in my general perspective bigger perspective on this is that given that 85% of the world’s retail transactions are still in cash I am a little less fuss about every new effort being put into payments being a direct competitor as against being a part of the whole ecosystem that must fight cash have been talking about this for five years cash is the real opportunity for a company like ours.
And that’s what we are focused on.
It doesn’t mean I am not competitive trust me I am very competitive on share and you would see that growing share quarter by quarter in markets around the world.
But I don’t really view each entry or exit as a direct competitive issue.
I view that as something you’re going to be careful of but you’ve got to also realize that few players that are aiming at cash is probably a good thing.
And then just quick follow up in the emerging market programs you are doing like I think the one you mentioned in Nigeria where you’re partnering on sort of these mobile prepaid or other types of migrating on bank to bank via some sort of digital prepaid model.
Can you give us some color on the economics to MasterCard of those types of programs? So Lisa it’s Martina let me start with that.
First of all typically in all of these agreements our normal pricing applies.
So if we do [inaudible] if you just do and see the volume from an assessment fee point of view the price gets – there are no really changes on that.
But you’re going to have -- when you think about it when we start those kind of undertakings so for instance in South Africa where we are much further along we have 10 million cards out there for the social program and people typically utilize those cards in such a way that they go to the ATM and pull out cash and then they pay at the merchant.
That is typically a lower yielding transaction for us and then over time as we’re actually establishing the acceptance base in those merchants where they could be using the card and we are having programs in place so people rather going to the ATM go directly to the merchant and [save up for the band] – they are not carrying cash around et cetera et cetera then we are starting to go into the higher yielding transactions.
So you have to look at this as an evolution we first develop the infrastructure it’s first being used in a lower yielding way you see that coming through our numbers and in a number of ways.
And then as we are migrating people to be using the cards at POS you’re going to see higher yielding transactions coming through and that is pretty much the experience that we have had so far on all of these programs.
The only other thing I would add is beyond all digital by the way you’re talking digital programs – South Africa and Nigeria are cards with a chip on them in both biometric enabled and South Africa is even voice enabled to be recognized at the back-office.
But in Nigeria it’s the biometric card with a chip enabled card and the other side is the payment card.
It is mobile based in some markets but it’s also card based so the world food program example in Syrian refugees and Lebanon Jordan is also a card.
It just depends on what's going on in that marketplace and its ecosystem.
Building a mobile ecosystem for delivery of product to people at the disadvantage level when you start a remittance which is what the [impasse] type of thing is that’s not easy because if that mobile system isn’t accepted at a shop it’s not a lot of use to the consumer.
So I’d be careful to assume that it’s all about mobile I think it’s about different ways of reaching these consumers and getting them into electronic payment system and then the revenue dynamics as Martina said low in the beginning because of higher cash use you will see it in our numbers and in terms of the cash transactions and lower yield on those.
And then hopefully over time the people will migrate towards being more in the system and using their cards at the point of sale at which point of time you would see a bigger impact in our revenues.
Thank you.
Our last question is from Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Most of my questions actually have been asked and answered.
But I was hoping you could kind of give us a little more detail around the acquisition activity and how that shakes out.
I mean Martina you had said that at least one of them was already contributing to revenue and that there still would be this EPS dilution can you talk about the revenue path and the earnings path as you go forward? We are making acquisitions for a number of reasons.
Some of the reasons like the Pinpoint acquisition as well as Provus the processing entity that we bought in Turkey it’s really because the building and expanding our business and they will be contributing over time to our topline.
What you should be expecting from them in terms of how the loyalty space is growing that’s how Pinpoint will be growling what we are doing in the processing space in order to take Provus which are connecting to our processing in Turika [ph] and Poland together you should be expecting them to grow based on how the processing space and the expansion grows.
However we also made a couple of acquisitions which have basically built our skillset.
Such as a company called [Sesame] where we acquired a terrific workforce engineers mostly based in India who really have a significant skillset in the digital and in the mobile space.
That did not come with a lot of revenues but it came with a capability that we are now using for a number of engagements in the digital and in the mobile space.
So clearly you will see more expenses coming through on that and that when you put everything together as we are in the early stages of integration you are seeing that $0.05 dilution in 2014 which we are expecting to be the same number in 2015.
But some of that would have been money you would have spent anyway wouldn’t it? Exactly.
So you are kind of penalizing yourself a little bit? That’s a good way to penalize Martina and I love doing that.
And I will buy you a beer for that though.
So guys thank you all for your questions and Lisa thank you for yours.
And I will leave you with a closing thoughts.
Yes the global economic environment remains mixed but I think we are demonstrating that we can navigate through this pretty well and to this last question you will see us continue to invest in our business on products on services on technologies that are key to our strategy not just organically but also through acquisitions.
I really appreciate your continued support of the company.
Thank you for being on the call today.
Thank you and thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MasterCard fourth quarter and full-year 2014 earnings conference call.
My name is Heather and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Gasper you may begin.
Thank you Heather and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for a discussion about our fourth quarter and full-year 2014 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
Even if you think you have already dialed into the queue for the Q&amp;A you will need to register again following our prepared comments.
This morning’s earnings release and the side deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at MasterCard.com.
We’ve added a new table in the slide appendix to the deck that breaks out the impact of various items to our financial results as an easy reference for those of you who track that detail.
These documents have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one week through February 6.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today’s earnings release I need to remind everyone that today’s call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard’s future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I will now turn the call over to Ajay.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
I’m very pleased that we were able to deliver strong results for both our fourth quarter and the full year performance despite what everybody knows is a mixed economic environment.
In the fourth quarter after adjusting for currency we had net revenue growth of 17% and EPS growth of 25% driven by solid underlying metrics.
For the full year we saw net revenue growth of 14% and EPS growth of 19%.
Both EPS growth figures exclude the impact of last year’s special item for a charge related to the U.S.
merchant litigation.
So in total we had a good year where we were able to continue to meaningfully invest in growth initiatives that I think will position us very well for the future.
Those initiatives included actions resulting in a restructuring charge in this past year’s fourth quarter which Martina is going to go through in some detail later.
Moving on to look at some of the current underlying global economic trends let’s start with the United States which is in relatively decent shape.
Our SpendingPulse data showed U.S.
retail sales growth ex-auto was 2.9% in the fourth quarter and that’s down from the third quarter growth of 4.2%.
Most of that deceleration is due to lower gas prices.
Excluding auto and gas retail sales growth was 4.1% for the fourth quarter versus 4.8% for the third quarter showing just a modest deceleration in spending.
Even though 4% growth is nothing to sneeze at we haven’t yet seen the extra savings from lower gas prices translate into additional discretionary consumer spending.
While overall retail spending growth softened in the quarter underlying economic indicators did remain positive with unemployment levels and consumer sentiment both showing some improvement.
Looking at our own U.S.
business as we have said for the past couple of quarters the Chase de-conversion is having an impact on our U.S.
GDP growth rate but if we take that out the underlying growth remained roughly the same over the course of 2014.
Outside of the U.S.
Europe’s recovery slowed somewhat in the fourth quarter it still remains challenged and across the region consumer confidence and economic sentiment decelerated slightly.
While unemployment levels were high they remained steady with the prior quarter.
There were a few bright spots - the U.K.
experienced good momentum in the quarter.
SpendingPulse data for the U.K.
is showing fourth quarter retail sales growth of 3.6% up from 2.9% in the third quarter.
Even in Spain preliminary indicators are showing some early signs of recovery.
MasterCard’s total European volume growth for the fourth quarter was in the mid-teens and process transaction growth in the lower 20’s both of which increased from the last quarter due in part to a number of our recent wins across several European markets.
Latin America a number of indicators there that highlighted the sluggish economic performance across the region.
Our fourth quarter SpendingPulse data from Brazil showed retail sales growth of just 0.9% down from the 2.4% growth that Brazil saw in the third quarter.
For the entire region annual GDP growth is now expected to be around 1% down slightly from earlier projections of 1.3%.
Mexico however is an exception.
It continues to benefit from improving exposure to the U.S.
and actually is undergoing a slow recovery.
Our business in the region remains solid.
Our fourth quarter GDV and process transaction growth is in the mid-teens about the same as the last quarter.
Across Asia-Pacific overall business sentiment actually improved in the fourth quarter.
Optimism from Indian companies following the recent elections has driven some of that but was tempered a bit by lingering concerns over the slowing economic growth in China.
Consumer confidence across the region is holding steady.
Our business in the region continues to do well.
GDP growth in the mid-teens process transaction growth in the mid-20’s is about the same as the last quarter.
So overall the economic environment hasn’t changed much from last quarter.
The U.S.
looks to be in a little better shape challenges remain for continental Europe for Brazil and parts of Asia.
But despite all of this you can see the strong fundamentals of our business have not changed.
So before we go to our business highlights there has been recent news about European regulatory matters and Russia so let me touch on those a little bit first.
Let me start with the proposed European legislation related to card payments.
The European Parliament the Council of Ministers and the Commission have reached an agreement in December and we are waiting for the formal adoption and publication of the final text.
As expected interchange caps have now been established for consumer credit and consumer debit cards.
Commercial cards are excluded.
The regulation provides for a level playing field by imposing interchange caps on three-party networks when they operate similarly to a four-party network.
There are some possible exceptions to this but overall we are pleased with the outcome at this point because it is an important one for us.
Also a network will no longer be allowed to charge a co-badging fee if it does not process the transaction and finally the regulation requires the functional rather than legal separation of scheme and processing functions an outcome that we had sought once it became clear that some form of separation would be required.
We are now working to build this separation the functional separation into our operations.
The next formal step is for the language of the agreement to be endorsed by parliament and by the member states.
Our best estimate this will occur in the first half of 2015.
Interchange caps will become effective six months after that.
All of the parts of the legislation will apply to us starting 12 months after the endorsement so that’s probably sometime in 2016.
So now a little bit about Russia.
We’ve been working through the challenges of connecting to NSPC which is the domestic processing switch of the Russian Central Bank in order to meet a late March 31 deadline.
Going forward by the way nothing has changed in terms of being able to issue MasterCard-branded cards for use in the Russian market.
In terms of the financial impact to our business our best estimate is still something less than $50 million on an annualized basis.
It will now hit our GMA line the expense line as a data processing expense rather than the revenue line as we’d previously shared.
Moving on to some of our recent business activity we have expanded relationships with a couple of our large global customers and that’s great news.
We renewed our multi-year global partnership with Bank of America that will expand share opportunities for us both domestically and outside of the U.S.
and primarily on the commercial side.
We recently won new business with HSBC which involves converting the remainder of their U.S.
consumer credit portfolio to MasterCard in the first half of this year.
In the Middle East and Africa we signed a number of new business agreements in the quarter.
That should help us increase our credit debit commercial and prepaid businesses in countries such as Nigeria Tanzania Rwanda Jordan Kuwait and the UAE over the course of 2015.
It was built on the strong momentum that we’ve developed in the region.
Over the last two years we’ve signed close to 100 new business agreements.
We now have an acceptance footprint in 50 out of Africa’s 55 markets.
We feel strongly about activities that take our services to people who were previously excluded from access to the financial system.
In Africa close to 95% of the region’s transactions are still done in cash and 80% of adults don’t have access to a bank account.
Working on that whole aspect and reflecting our commitment to what’s going on in Africa we have also launched a number of financial inclusion initiatives and today I’m going to pick on two of those.
First last week we announced the start of a collaboration with the African Development Bank to broaden access to financial services.
We are going to do that in partnership with local governments in Africa and private sector companies.
We have the expertise to design and to scale financial solutions and the African Development Bank is a major source of funding for the economic development of its 54 member countries.
We believe together we can help drive financial inclusion and economic development across Africa over the next few years.
Secondly last December in partnership with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation we announced that we will be opening a MasterCard Lab for Financial Inclusion in Kenya.
This is our seventh global innovation hub but it’s the first that we have in Africa.
It’s also the first to receive outside funding.
The lab will be dedicated specifically to creating and incubating programs that are targeted to more than 100 million people in this part of the world who are financially excluded or underserved.
Our efforts on innovation by the way are not limited to one region like we were discussing Africa or only to the labs.
We’re also opening up our technology to external developers something we’ve been trying to do for a while now.
The most recent example is the 10-city hackathon competition that starts next month in Sydney in Australia and will go on to Hong Kong Singapore Israel Brazil Canada the U.K.
and the United States.
This competition which has already been planned for some more cities beyond these will bring together developers and entrepreneurs using MasterCard APIs to create a new generation of commerce applications that leverages our platforms our product capabilities such as [indiscernible] from our information services business our MasterPass and our prepaid our loyalty and our fraud solutions.
Meanwhile continuing with the global expansion of MasterPass since this introduction in the spring of 2013 we now have the platform launched in 16 countries and just recently signed on a number of new merchants - Neiman Marcus Office Depot Blue Nile Broadway.com - just some new names in the merchant list.
We’re also creating some new and noteworthy partnerships.
One example is with Paylib in France.
Paylib was initially formed by BNP Paribas La Banque Postal and Société Général who are by the way mainly customers of one of our key competitors and yet they have chosen to partner with MasterPass because of what they believe is our global reach in handling all of their cross-border ecommerce transactions as well as some of the domestic transactions too.
With this partnership up to 40 million people will have access to MasterPass acceptance with Paylib wallets linked to a card from their bank.
So before I turn it over to Martina let me quickly update you on two recent acquisitions.
In December we acquired the payment gateway services business of Transaction Network Services TNS.
That deal gives us the ability to expand our payment gateway to the U.S.
and Mexico and to position ourselves more competitively around the rest of the world whereas you know with DataCash and our original mix platform we’ve only had a presence.
So for example in Asia-Pacific and the Middle East and Africa we will add new capabilities - tokenization fraud management and we will also be able to leverage what I think are highly skilled product and software teams that have now recently joined the company with this transaction.
Additionally we acquired 5one Marketing Limited.
That’s a marketing analytics and consulting firm and their clients are basically large retailers across many different consumer sectors.
5one has some proprietary software.
They have used that to develop insights from a retailer’s own data that can be used for marketing for merchandising and for operational decisions.
You take that and you combine that kind of in-depth merchant understanding with our existing advisors’ capabilities and I think that will allow us to provide greater insights to retailers and the ability to expand our business opportunities with the merchant community.
So with that Martina for an update on financial results and operational metrics.
Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
As Ajay already said we’re very pleased with our 2014 full-year performance which delivered net revenue growth of 14% and EPS growth of 19%.
I now turn to the details of our fourth quarter results.
<br>Let me begin on Page 3 of our slide deck where you see the difference between as reported and FX-adjusted growth rates for this quarter is more significant than it has been in the recent past.
This is primarily due to the headwinds from the euro-U.S.
dollar exchange rate especially with what we saw in the FX markets during the last 45 days of the quarter and its continuation into this quarter.
These figures also exclude the impact of the special item related to the U.S.
merchant litigation taken in the fourth quarter of 2013.
I’d like to highlight three things while on this slide and then dive into the details of the major P&amp;L line items and subsequent lines.
First EPS growth was 25% after adjusting for currency and share repurchases contributed $0.03 per share.
During the fourth quarter we have purchased 2.1 million shares at a cost of approximately $155 million.
Through January 23 we repurchased an additional 2.5 million shares at a cost of approximately $250 million and we now have $3.8 billion remaining under the current authorization.
We continue to look to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis.
Second part of the EPS growth is the result of a very favorable tax rate of 20.3% in the quarter as some initiatives only came together within the last couple of months to better align our tax structure to our European business footprint between Belgium and the U.K.
We took some of that benefit to reinvest back into the business which I’ll discuss on the operating expense slide.
Third cash flow from operations was $725 million.
We ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of about $6.4 billion.
So let’s turn to Page 4 where you can see the operational metrics for the fourth quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 13% on a local currency basis up slightly from last quarter.
Overall our U.S.
GDV grew 8% similar to last quarter.
Credit growth was 7% and debit growth was 8% both the same as last quarter.
Outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 15% on a local currency basis and primarily driven by Europe.
Cross-border volume grew 19% on a local currency basis higher than the 15% we saw in the third quarter primarily driven by Europe.
Growth in Europe was in the low 20’s.
Key contributors to this growth included the U.K.
Italy Germany and Sweden.
All regions except the U.S.
saw an increase in cross-border volume growth in the fourth quarter.
Let me turn to Page 5 and here you can see process transactions grew 11% globally to $11.6 billion.
We continue to see double-digit growth in most regions.
Growth increased from the 10% we saw in the third quarter primarily due to Europe driven by Russia Sweden Poland and the Netherlands.
Globally the number of cards grew 9% with 2.1 billion MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards.
Now let’s turn to Page 6 for highlights of a few of our revenue line items.
Overall net revenue growth was 14% as reported or 17% FX-adjusted due to currency headwinds primarily from the euro exchange rate.
Additionally the impact of local currency exchange rates to the functional currency billing rates was a little more than 1 ppt.
In total acquisitions contributed 3 ppt to our net revenue growth.
So after excluding the impact of both local and functional currencies as well as the impact of acquisitions we saw very strong underlying growth of 15%.
Looking at the individual revenue line items on an FX-adjusted basis domestic assessments grew 7% while worldwide GDV grew 13%.
This 6 ppt gap is primarily due to the impact of local currency and lower than average revenue yields in some markets outside of the U.S.
similar to prior quarters.
Cross-border volume fees grew 8% while cross-border volume grew 19%.
Of the 11 ppt gap about 7 ppt is due to the impact of local currency.
The remaining portion of the difference is mainly due to the higher mix of intra-European activity.
Transaction processing fees grew 15% primarily driven by the 11% growth in processed transactions.
This line item also benefited from additional revenues not driven by transaction count and some pricing partially offset by mix.
Other revenues grew 28% driven largely by contributions from our Pinpoint acquisition as well as our advisors business.
Moving on to Page 7 you can see that total operating expenses were up 26% in the quarter or 29% on an FX-adjusted basis.
Of this growth 9 ppt was due to expenses related to our acquisitions.
The other big driver was the restructuring charge which contributed 8 ppt to the growth so let me focus on that a bit more.
Specifically we took an $87 million restructuring charge to cover a series of actions.
First as you know we have made a number of acquisitions in the processing space and we are now consolidating all of our processing assets under one organization thus driving significant synergies.
Second we are realigning some roles within the company’s business groups and redeploying resources geographically in order to invest in and enhance our capabilities in new product areas and technology such as digital and mobile.
Overall these actions will impact over 500 people but our total headcount will decline by a smaller amount given the reinvestment that I just mentioned.
The remaining opex growth of 12% was primarily driven by some opportunistic spend such as adding A&amp;M spend around our Apple Pay and Priceless initiatives as well as continuing our digital investments such as MasterPass and tokenization similar to prior quarters.
Let me turn to Slide 8 and here we discuss what we’ve seen in January through the 21<sup>st</sup>.
Most of our business drivers are similar to what we experienced in the fourth quarter after excluding the impact of lower gas prices particularly in the U.S.
The numbers through January 21<sup> </sup>are as follows.
Starting with processed volume we saw global growth of 9% down 2 ppt from the fourth quarter.
In the U.S.
our processed volume grew 3% down 2 ppt from what we saw last quarter primarily driven by lower gas prices.
Processed volume outside the U.S.
grew 16% about 1 ppt lower than the fourth quarter with growth of mid to high teens in each region.
Globally processed transaction growth was 11% similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter with double-digit growth in all regions except the U.S which grew in the low single digits.
With respect to cross-border our volume grew at 19% globally the same as our fourth quarter growth.
We continue to see high growth in major European markets including the U.K.
Italy and Sweden.
Looking ahead let me start with some commentary about full-year 2015.
Given what’s happening with currency rates and the impact being seen by U.S.
multinationals across a number of industries I’m going to start with that especially since it was back in 2012 that MasterCard last faced such a big impact from FX.
Remember that currency impacts us in two ways.
First we have the impact of local currency rates relative to the functional currencies and this is the FX exposure that we actively hedge normally on a rolling 12-month basis and typically as you know we hedge about 50 to 75% of our total net exposure for about 30 currency pairs.
Given that many currencies have depreciated against the U.S.
dollar and the euro new hedge contracts will come on at lower rates over the year thus we continue to expect some net headwind throughout the year both to revenue and the bottom line.
Based on the current rates this is likely to be in the 2 ppt range and this is already included in our FX-adjusted guidance.
Second we have the impact of the translation of our major functional currencies which are particularly the euro and the Brazilian real into U.S.
dollars to consolidate our financials and we do not hedge those exposures.
When we talk about FX-adjusted growth rates we are only adjusting for the impact of these two functional exchange rates.
If the rates for our functional currencies remain similar to where they are today so that’s the euro trading at the 1.13 level and the Brazilian real at the 2.58 level for the rest of the year the net impact of the euro and the real would be a 4 to 6 ppt headwind and it’s actually driven mostly from the euro to our as-reported results for the full year depending on which line item we are talking about - revenue net income or EPS and I will get into that a little bit more.
With that backdrop now let me get into some of the P&amp;L line items.
We expect high single digit net revenue growth for 2015 on an FX-adjusted basis and that will be before and after a roughly 2 ppt contribution from last year’s M&amp;A transactions.
Our underlying business remains strong and we are seeing traction from many of our recent portfolio wins and new product initiatives; however this year’s FX-adjusted revenue growth will be impacted by some items specific to 2015 and that’s including the remaining Chase portfolio attrition mostly impacting the first half of the year as well as the local currency headwinds I just talked about.
Also included are a couple of expected significant contract renewals some of which will likely have more front-loaded rebates and incentives than our typical agreements but these renewals provide the foundation for future growth.
On an as-reported basis the net revenue growth rate will likely be in the mid-single digit range as a result of strong FX headwinds primarily from the euro functional translation.
Based on current FX rates this would be about a 4 to 5 ppt impact.
Overall we project the growth rate for total operating expense for full-year 2015 to be in the high single digits on an FX-adjusted basis.
This growth is predominantly due to a roughly 6 ppt impact from our previously announced acquisitions with more of that impact occurring in the first half of the year.
The as-reported growth will likely be in the mid-single digit range after considering a roughly 2 to 3 ppt range impact mostly again from the euro translation.
Let me give you an update on potential dilution from last year’s acquisitions.
Now that we’ve done a few more deals like TNS and 5one that Ajay just mentioned we now expect total EPS dilution to be about $0.08 to $0.10 for the full-year 2015 and a little less than half of the expected dilution is actually due to the amortization of acquired intangibles.
You should now assume a full-year 2015 tax rate of about 28% due to the continued benefits we expect from the tax initiatives I discussed earlier so this is a sustainable tax benefit for future years.
Now given all the detail that I just went through let me step back and summarize for you.
We expect solid fundamentals to drive our business in 2015 despite the mixed economic environment and significant headwinds from FX and gas prices.
We continue to sign customer contracts and invest in the right strategic areas while managing our expenses prudently.
Finally let me move on to our long-term performance objectives for the 2013 to 2015 period.
Given our expectations for 2015 revenue growth we now believe that we will deliver at the low end of our 11 to 14% net revenue CAGR.
We continue to expect at least 20% EPS CAGR for the three-year period due to continued expense management as well as benefits from our lower tax rate and share repurchases.
We remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
Remember these objectives are on a constant currency basis and they exclude our 2014 M&amp;A activities as well as any new ones that may occur this year.
As a reference point for your modeling when looking at our performance from a two-year CAGR perspective so that’s for 2013 and 2014 on a constant currency basis we have delivered a net revenue CAGR of 12.5% and an EPS CAGR of 21.1% which is based on the 2012 normalized EPS of $2.14 per share that we provided to you earlier.
Now many of you have asked when we will be rolling our performance objectives forward.
As you can see the underlying drivers of our business are in good shape and we are expanding our reach in areas that we are strategically targeting such as processing loyalty information services and all things digital.
The overall growth prospects for the payments industry have not changed and for now we have given you some clarity around 2015 as this is the last year of our current 2013 - 2015 performance period.
Once we have worked through the many moving parts including the impact of those resulting from the final European payment regulations and the new payments environment in Russia both from a revenue and an expense perspective we will provide you with our new long-term objectives before the end of this year.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Martina.
We’re now ready to start the Q&amp;A session and I would just remind everyone that in order to reach as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
Heather? [Operator instructions] Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW is on the line with a question.
Thank you good morning.
I guess I had a question on the quote Ajay had in the press release.
It mentioned new wins and renewals in the pipeline.
Is it both wins and renewals because I know you guys talked about the renewals; and then just on the tax rate Martina that 28% can that come down further in future years? Thanks.
Hi Sanjay good morning.
It is wins and renewals.
If you recall my earlier comments I talked about Bank of America’s commercial and some consumer so those were actually wins.
HSBC is a win - we’re actually converting the rest of their portfolio.
There is renewals as well.
There’s a combination of renewals with a deeper extension into other markets which I would count as a part-win so it’s kind of a mix of both and all that is happening as we speak actually.
So on the tax rate Sanjay as you know we are very much committed to be aligning our business operations to our tax infrastructure and over the last couple of years we’ve been able to work down the tax rate quite considerably so in fact in 2014 we are ending up at 28.8%.
We’re planning that that will go down to 28% in 2015 and over a longer period of time we believe that we will have even more work that we can in order to lower the tax rate.
Thanks.
Operator next question? Tien-tsin Huang is on the line with a question from JP Morgan.
Thank you and good morning.
Just wanted to follow up on Sanjay’s question.
The small rise in rebate was surprising this quarter given your comments on the deals so just curious if there were any unusual items within that.
Can you give us Martina some context on where rebates could trend this year? It sounds like like you just said there will be some renewals and wins.
Yes so first of all in the prior year quarter in 2013 we actually had some relatively large contracts coming to fruition both from a new and from a renewal point of view so this is just the year-over-year cadence.
There’s nothing unusual that is going on in the Q4 of 2014.
Looking forward when you talk about 2015 as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we are expecting a number of customer renewals that will have more front-loaded rebates and incentives into the front part of the year not smooth over the entire years of a contract.
So it will have a more considerable impact on rebates and incentives in 2015 and that is all baked into our net revenue guidance of the high single digits FX-adjusted.
And to be clear it’s renewals and wins as I said.
It’s not just renewals.
Andrew Jeffrey from SunTrust is online with a question.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Ajay I wonder just from a high level if you could step back and described the acquisition strategy just in the context of your long-term growth.
It seems like you’re perhaps ramping up some of your acquisition activity and I wonder if there is some specific criteria you evaluate when you look to do a deal and also just whether or not there’s an overall or overarching narrative that we might think about in terms of how MasterCard is augmenting its robust organic revenue growth and position.
Okay this particular year we actually ended up doing six acquisitions and one JV.
We had TNS 5one Pinpoint ECS C-SAM and Provus starting in January though December and then the HomeSend JV.
But that’s--I wouldn’t say you should take that as the norm.
Deals are deals when they happen.
You can look at 25 30 deals in a year and sometimes in the previous two years one or two worked out.
It just so happened that a number of these were in the hopper so to say and they began to close at different times in the year.
So the first thing I’d say is don’t take this as trend line of how it happens.
It’s just the way deals work out.
Now you deeper question was around what we’re doing and where we are going for what’s the big picture here.
The big picture here is we are trying to expand our presence in the payments value chain not just in being in the clearing authorization and settlement business but everything before during and after a transaction how can we expand our presence so we can be stickier and we can therefore extract better value for the services we offer and that provides us with some new capabilities and hopefully gives us some space to become bigger leaders or better leaders in key growth areas.
So what would those areas be? Data and analytics which is what the information services is about so 5one for example is right in that space.
Processing which is what we’re doing with Provus and with ECS and ENS [ph] also does fit in there.
We’ve had the key commerce gateway businesses bought over time.
That are these things that all tie back to processing.
And why are we doing processing? Because the idea is to be able to see more of the transactions around the world because that allows me to use that knowledge in my data analytics business so it’s interconnected to that space.
Then the third area is safety and security so DataCash got us some great fraud management solutions.
There are similar ones in some of these - the HomeSend JV could actually be very useful not just for moving money around the world but also for safety and security.
Then loyalty which is why Pinpoint came into it [indiscernible] some years ago.
So these are all in that bailiwick of data and analytics processing safety security and loyalty and mostly we try and figure out if there is a good strategic fit.
Are these companies giving us some critical capabilities we didn’t have on our own - technology product distribution some geographic reach maybe and do they have the right kind of risk profile and are we getting some talent and skills we would not have been able to get easily.
So C-SAM for example brought us a number of very highly qualified mobile payments technicians.
Hiring hundreds of them organically would be a very slow build.
This gave us the ability to get with it much quicker.
It’s kind of a mix of those reasons and that’s what we’re trying to do.
In addition to the strategic evaluation we obviously do a financial evaluation and we do an integration possibility evaluation.
So on the financials first of all we differentiate between those acquisitions as Ajay said that are really bringing us skill sets that don’t necessarily bring us in the immediate term revenues that would be good over time but it brings a skill set.
Then we have acquisitions that are more the traditional acquisitions like Pinpoint or TNS that are bringing us also revenues.
We do the very traditional cash flow modeling with the right kind of hurdle rates vary it by the type of business the riskiness of the business where the business is located and then beyond that analysis we obviously also do an analysis on the integration possibility of this particular business with our company so that we can drive some synergies on the bottom line.
Kevin McVeigh with Macquarie is on the line with a question.
Great thanks.
I wonder if you could just give us a sense of the advertising and marketing line in Q4 and then how we should think about that over the course of ’15 as well.
Yes so first of all in Q4 as I said we took actually advantage of some of the goodness that we had on the tax side to be reinvesting that and we did specifically reinvest that in [indiscernible] as well as in our price initiatives.
So you saw a little bit of a higher number in A&amp;M than you otherwise would expect in Q4.
I think for the full year of 2015 the A&amp;M spend is really embedded in my comments that I said about operating expenses and I don’t think you should be expecting too big of a difference from a overall A&amp;M spend number for 2015 than what we had in 2014.
Bob Napoli from William Blair is online with a question.
Thank you.
I just wanted to follow up on the growth in local currency of the debit and credit businesses internationally.
It’s pretty impressive the 17% going to 23% in debit and a little bit of acceleration in credit.
I was just trying to get a little more color and what your outlook is for those pieces of the business given that the global economy doesn’t seem so hot right now outside of the U.S.
Well Bob as you heard Ajay speak actually a big part of this is due to the terrific work that our European colleagues have been doing.
A number of the countries that we called out - the U.K.
Sweden and some others - have been growing terrifically in these kinds of businesses so that obviously contributed to our bottom line growth despite where the economic environment is at this point in time.
Yes the economic environment translates into consumer confidence translates into spending and that does impact quickly; but we also have--what’s going on here is share growth in some of these markets and what’s also going on here is conversion from cash to electronic and it’s kind of a mixed bag of all three that comes out into the numbers you’re seeing.
You can actually make that work faster and harder for you if you’ve got the right marketing and the right approaches so there’s a lot of blocking and tackling that’s going on to help us get to where we’re getting.
Great thank you.
Jason Kupferberg from Jefferies is online with a question.
Yes hi guys.
I was just curious sin terms of what theories you might have as to why we haven’t seen the pick-up in discretionary spending from U.S.
consumers given the magnitude of the drop in gas prices.
Separately can you just clarify your pricing assumptions in the 2015 guide? So Jason that’s actually a very good question.
I myself I’m kind of stumped with what’s going on there.
I think about the fact that it’s $800 a month or whatever it is to a middle class family the gas prices are down 40% over this same time the previous year and that’s not a small number.
So when we put all that into context you would have thought it would flow through.
But the way I think about it and [indiscernible] we’ve talked to so many other fields about this I just feel that maybe it is that it’s going to take three or four months for the U.S.
consumer to feel that this is something that’s going to with them for a little while.
If you have a longer term perspective of the price of gas not going back to $100 but maybe settling in at $75 $80 that’s where we’re thinking.
I don’t think the U.S.
consumer knows whether to expect this to be sticking around or not so I think there’s some degree of let’s say the desire to see that through before they really start spending that kind of money.
That’s kind of where I think this is.
So if you were to ask my opinion and my guess I would say we’re probably a month or two or three away if this price stays where it is for them saying you know what? I do have $800 a month more in my pocket and I could afford to go and buy X.
I think that’s kind of what I think about it.
But on pricing Martina? Yes on the pricing side for 2014 actually for the whole year we had about a 1% price increase so relatively small.
We think that what we have out there for 2015 it will be relatively similar.
Glenn Greene from Oppenheimer is online with a question.
Thanks good morning.
Martina I know you like to level-set us in terms of expectations and there was a lot of commentary on guidance but I just wanted to clarify and make sure I heard it right.
So in terms of revenue you talked about high single-digit net revenue on an FX-adjusted basis including M&amp;A.
So the first question would be how much M&amp;A benefit is there? And I was unclear exactly what you said in terms of the expense expectation given the FX impact and the M&amp;A.
Okay well let me just go through it.
Yes she’s very good at level-setting expectations inside the company too so don’t feel discriminated against.
Good to know! So you’re absolutely right - FX-adjusted high single digit net revenue growth for 2015.
That includes about 2 ppt of M&amp;A transactions.
But by the way even when you pull these 2 ppt of M&amp;A transactions out you still get to high single digit growth on the underlying business so you can probably get a good sense on the numbers on that one.
On the expense side what I said is also on an FX-adjusted basis you have operating expenses high single digits and actually most of that - 6 ppt - is due to the acquisitions so the underlying growth of our underlying expenses is relatively small okay? Now when you put the FX translation into it you have to deduct about 2 to 3 percentage points so you’re getting for the as-reported opex growth into the mid-single digit range.
So you get a benefit from the euro and expenses just that you get a headwind on the revenue.
That’s kind of what’s going on.
The M&amp;A transactions what’s happening is you typically get--the first year or two you tend to get the expenses that you’ve got to either get them up to speed with our systems or with our security or the investment you’re putting in to do things with their technology or their geography or their distribution and then you get the revenue that comes in a little later.
Or you get things like C-SAM which are really more building our capacity our mobile and digital and doesn’t really give you a lot of revenue in the first year or two or three.
That’s the mix that’s going on inside our company.
Don Fandetti from Citigroup is online with a question.
Yes Ajay I had a question around tokenization.
I was wondering if you can help us understand sort of the timeline for tokenization for online browser-based purchases.
I think Visa had mentioned there could be some products over the next few quarters.
How will that sort of play out? You know before digital space if you kind of bust it up between in-app contactless and online browser as you read through it contactless is still relatively small in the U.S.
online browsing tends to be the large amount.
A number of the merchants and retailers have been launching their own apps in an effort to get people to come straight to their [indiscernible] and then hopefully control more of the transaction as well as the relationship with the consumer when they’re inside their app as compared to coming the usual way.
So it depends who you believe but everybody is making projections based on whatever they think about where these three will go over the next few years.
My sense is you’re going to get NFC growing decently particularly with terminalisation and I believe terminalisation will happen with all the EMV and chip migration as well as the fact our new terminals are coming contactless-equipped so you’re probably seeing a two or three-year cycle of a fairly dramatic increase in contactless-equipped terminals in the United States.
That’s only happening by the way in Australia and Canada Turkey and some other countries.
But the U.S.
which is the large one I think you’ll see that.
In terms of browsing browsing tends to be the large chunk and I still believe that online browsing will remain a pretty large number for a few years to come and I think you’ll get two or three kinds of efforts made.
You’ll get a lot of effort made around improving the card and file experience.
You’ll get a lot of efforts made around improving the use of easy use checkout wallets whether it be MasterPass or Visa’s offering or PayPal or other such offerings.
And I think you’ll get all of those getting a degree of capabilities built with tokenization just making it safer and safer over the next few quarters.
So we’re all working on similar things and I don’t think you should read too much into a quarter here or a quarter there.
These things are slow burns.
You saw Apply Pay talk about their mobile payment growth and at the end of the day yes they’ve done a great job and it’s excited the market but it’s still a very small percentage of what the total number of transactions are.
So I would take all this in that context and not run to the races with more than that.
But we are very focused on--you know tokenization and [indiscernible] just to make sure I don’t miss that aspect.
It’s a very important aspect of where we’re going for safety and security.
Apple Pay was the first version of that to come out.
We’re putting it into MasterPass just regular MasterPass over the next few--period of time let me put it that way so I don’t give you information that’s beyond what is likely and that will be--you’ll see in a year or two’s time tokenization will become kind of fiddlesticks in the game on ecommerce.
[Indiscernible] James Friedman with Susquehanna is online with a question.
Hi.
I was hoping you could share some perspective on the relative performance of debit and credit domestically excluding the gasoline vector.
Is there any evidence of steering in the market? Thank you.
No I don’t--the last part of your question is about is there either steering or secular change going on in the behavior around credit and debit and I’d say there’s no evidence of that.
But you should know this that the growth rate of debit versus credit there are changes that are going on between that over time and there’s no doubt that as credit histories and credit positions are improving banks are becoming more willing to go out and push credit acquisitions again and that in itself will change over a period of time some degree of behavior between debit and credit.
But there’s no real pushing or steering or anything going on that I can see not in our numbers anyway.
Bill Carcache from Nomura is online with a question.
Thank you good morning.
Martina you talked about how you actively hedge I believe you said 50 to 75% of your FX exposure.
Can you discuss some of the trade-offs behind why you wouldn’t hedge an even greater percentage? Wouldn’t forward contracts be relatively inexpensive? And then finally if you could offer any thoughts at a high level on some of the more significant differences between your hedging strategies versus that of your large competitor which last night discussed how they layer in their hedges on a rolling 12-month basis.
Yes so first of all with the last comment of course we listen to each other’s comments from time to time and I would believe that we do a hedging strategy and have a hedging philosophy that is extremely similar.
We layer in our hedges over a 12-month rolling period so we never run so to speak naked during any type of period.
We do it for the most significant currency pairs.
You know that we are doing actually business in 150-plus currencies but we really pick the most significant currency pairs in order to do our hedging.
In order to do hedging you have to have really appropriate exposure forecasts coming out over the next 12 months rolling period and that is where you typically step back and take a little bit of a more conservative view and don’t layer in 100% of the exposure in terms of hedges you do 50 to 75%.
So we don’t take a view--the 50 to 75% is not taking a view in terms of hedging a particular currency pair but it is in terms of making sure that between the exposure that we know and the hedges that we layer on that we have the right kind of balance.
The one other thing that I wanted to let you know is just to make sure we are hedging things on a net basis which means we take revenues in that particular currency and we deduct the operating expenses that we spend in that particular currency and then we do a hedge on that and you would not see the gain or the loss on the hedge showing up in the revenue line.
Most of that is actually reflected in our GMA line item.
By the way this layered hedging is kind of the way that I used to work it even in my previous job in the banking industry.
When you go to companies--and that’s exactly what you do.
You go in and you attempt to hedge more of the exposure in the immediate quarter out there a little less in the quarter after a little less in the quarter after and even a little less in the quarter after.
So when Martina talks to you about the 50 to 75% you’re probably looking at a higher level hedge in the immediate quarter because you have more certainty of that net exposure within those currency pairs that she just referred to.
You hedge a little less out four quarters because you have less certainty in those currency pairs that she’s referring to.
Also remember the euro and the real are not being discussed in those currency pairs.
The 2 percentage point headwind that we’ve already put in our revenue growth estimate for next year it’s from these currency pairs.
The euro and the real goes over and beyond that and kind of could be a far more significant one particularly because of the euro as Martina was pointing out.
That’s extremely helpful thank you.
Tom McCrohan from Sterne Agee is on the line with a question.
Hi Ajay.
You talked about the commercial business in the past as having some good momentum.
Can you just give us an update how the year ended out and what your prospects are in looking at 2015? Thanks.
That business exciting.
We’re doing well and it’s across the world by the way.
The U.S.
has got the most traction in some ways but there’s good growth in Europe there’s good growth in Latin America.
Asia the Middle East Africa remain real opportunities for us.
I’m not going to give you separate numbers for that but you should know that it still is a big focus.
We’re focused on--T&amp;E [ph] is focused on fleet cards it’s focused on purchasing it’s focused on some B2B payment streams.
It’s not just our own effort with individual clients like Bank of America and Chase and Citi that you heard me talk about our other global clients but it’s also focused on partnerships with companies in the travel space partnerships with companies in the fleet management spaces.
All of these are giving us opportunities in commercial.
Actually from a growth perspective just to jump in here it’s really a nice mid-teens kind of growth worldwide.
There you go.
Martina is willing to give you more information than I am.
That’s an exception.
Isn’t that interesting? Dan Perlin from RBC Capital Markets is online with a question.
Thanks.
Can you just speak a little bit to the nuances that we might expect to see as you get more and more of this mix shift in ecommerce? Inherently it seems a little more credit-centric.
The interchange categories are quite a bit different so maybe there’s a bigger pool from which everyone could draw from.
I want to be thinking about this as this mix shift accelerates.
The other thing if you could just kind of explain the $50 million shift into G&amp;A versus revenue from Russia how did that come about? And I’ll hop off - thanks.
Yes Dan so let me take the Russia question first.
So what actually happened is the last legs of the legislation in Russia is that we continue to be a direct partner to our clients and that we actually will be facing our clients on all products and services that our clients need.
Then we then subcontract in particular [indiscernible] in switching to the local processing entity and therefore we still get the revenues from our clients but we have to pay a servicing fee which will be showing up in the data processing line to the local entity that would switch [indiscernible].
Ajay on ecommerce? I don’t know how to answer that in a way that’s different.
I would say to you that what’s going on in ecommerce right now is that you’ve got--as you grow there is no doubt that credit has a greater share than debit in ecommerce although I’d say that’s also because the U.S.
is a larger ecommerce market than most other parts of the world.
In Europe it’s not as similar as it is in the U.S.
Now remember the U.K.
and Spain Portugal are more credit-sensitive now northern Europe is more debit-sensitive so a lot of it depends on the originating market from where the transaction is placed into the ecommerce system.
So what we are seeing right now is also a function of mix and I wouldn’t try and draw more conclusions than that right now.
Okay thank you.
Bryan Keane from Deutsche Bank is online with a question.
Hi guys.
Now that the European regs the agreement seems to be in place between the three parties just trying to get an idea of--you guys have probably looked at it for ’16 what kind of an impact might there be.
Secondly Martina just on operating margins for the year there’s a lot of moving pieces.
Should we expect fiscal year ’15 operating margins to increase and then what does that all total out to be for EPS growth as reported for fiscal year ’15? Just want to make sure I have that right.
Thanks.
On your first question look - the European regulations the text is finalized but there is a lot of work that has to be done in order to implement that so I’m not prepared to be giving you guidelines for 2016 at this point in time.
That’s why you are going to hear only later this year about our long-term performance targets as we are going to be renewing them for a period.
Secondly on the operating margin of course when you have high single digit revenue growth and high single digit opex growth on an FX-adjusted basis you should basically assume that the operating margin which is terrific for 2014 will be roughly a similar operating margin in 2015.
We are not giving guidance for the bottom line.
Let me now turn the call over to Ajay Banga for closing remarks.
Ajay? Great.
Thank you all for those questions.
I’m going to just leave you with a few closing thoughts.
We ended what I think was a very good year on a strong note.
Seventeen percent revenue growth in fourth quarter ex-FX ’14 with that effect that’s not a bad place to be.
Volumes share innovation deals - we’ve done all of that while navigating through what I would say was one of the more complex economic and political years that I’ve seen over the last decade.
Aside from the actual couple of years of the financial crisis this was probably one of the more difficult years.
For 2015 we see the same underlying trends economically and for our own business.
We believe that we will deliver our three objectives and that means that net revenue growth this year will be in the high single digit range at constant currency.
So your question would be why is that growth lower than 2014? Because one we have those local FX headwinds that we were just discussing in the Q&amp;A in those key currency pairs and that’s before the euro by the way and the real translation impact which as you know is larger.
But just those local FX headwinds and because there are some very good deals in the pipeline both renewals and wins that are probably going to have an upfront load.
But they're good deals - they’re good for us.
So if you look at all that at the same time we plan to keep investing in our business and our capabilities.
We know how to dial our expenses up and down and we’re going to keep a very close eye on that if needed.
I just don’t overdo that through a short-term cycle.
We took advantage of the tax benefits that while sustainable as Martina talked about they came to us in the latter part of the quarter and got finalized and she and I sat down and said you know what? This is a good time - Apple Pay is out in the market price initiative [ph] out in the market.
It’s a good season and quarter for us - let’s take some of this benefit and put it back into the system.
Those kind of decisions are taken every week and every day by us together as a team.
So overall we haven’t changed our thinking about our business prospects from what we indicated at our investor day a few months ago--or rather the two investor days.
The payments space is a terrific place to be.
We are very confident in our ability to guide this company through the current mixed environment.
We’re going to keep growing share and we’re going to keep driving the conversion of cash to electronic payments around the world.
We expect to continue to deliver strong financial performance in the foreseeable future.
So thank you so much for your continued support of our company.
Thank you for taking the time to join us today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for participating.
This concludes today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MasterCard first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
My name is Keith and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Gasper you may begin.
Thank you Keith.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us for a discussion about our first quarter 2015 financial results.
With me on the call this morning are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
Even if you think you have already dialed into the queue you will need to register again following our prepared comments.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website MasterCard.com.
These comments have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one month.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I will now turn the call over to Ajay.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
In the first quarter we had reported net revenue growth of 3% and that's 8% after adjusting for currency.
And that combined with a decrease in operating expenses of 1% or an increase of 3% on an FX adjusted basis is what helped us drive EPS growth of 22%.
And that number is 29% when adjusted for currency.
So as we expected and I guess no different from other large global companies FX is having a noticeable impact on our results and especially as the Euro and Real both have depreciated about 18% against the U.S.
Dollar versus this time last year.
That is last year's first quarter.
However our EPS growth continues to be strong both on an as reported and an FX adjusted basis.
So as usual let's begin with a look at some of the current underlying global economic trends and let's start with the United States.
Our SpendingPulse data showed that U.S.
retail sales growth ex-auto was 1.1% in the first quarter.
And that's down from the fourth quarter growth rate of 2.9% and that deceleration continues basically to be due to lower gas prices.
If you were to exclude auto and gas retail sales growth was 5.1% for the first quarter versus 4.1% for the fourth quarter and that shows a healthier growth rate.
So what I think is happening is that consumers are only using a small portion of their savings from gas to buy new goods and services.
Rather what they are doing is using those savings from gas to increase their personal savings rate which looks like it's climbed to the highest level since December 2012.
And they're also probably using it to pay down some debt and therefore any additional consumer spend has not been enough to make up for the lower gas spending.
However underlying economic indicators have remained steady.
Unemployment levels are stable.
Consumer sentiment is tracking upwards.
So when you look at our U.S.
business lower gas prices had an impact of about two percentage points on our U.S.
GDV growth rate which is slightly greater than the one percentage point headwind we saw in the fourth quarter.
GDV growth excluding gas and processed transactions were essentially the same as last quarter.
In Europe the environment there is showing signs of improvement.
And across the region consumer confidence economic sentiment unemployment levels have all slightly improved over the prior quarter.
Consumer confidence in the U.K.
has reached a 13-year high in March.
U.K.
retail sales also continue to gain momentum with SpendingPulse data in the U.K.
showing that first quarter retail sales growth of 3.8% is up from the 3.6% in the fourth quarter.
And MasterCard's total European volume growth for the first quarter was in the mid-teens processed transaction growth in the low 20s percent very similar to the last quarter.
Latin America continues to be challenged economically.
In our first quarter SpendingPulse data for Brazil showed retail sales growth basically flat and that's down from the almost 1% growth in the fourth quarter.
As the Brazilian economy settles into some form of recession and unemployment levels are continuing to rise.
Lower oil prices are also slowing Mexico's economic recovery but there consumer spending has held steady.
And the region's annual GDP growth is now expected to be around 0.8% and that's down slightly from the earlier projections of 1%.
But despite those challenges our business in the region remains solid.
First quarter GDV and processed transaction growth is in the mid-teens which is the same as last quarter.
In Asia Pacific business sentiment kind of held steady in the first quarter led by the continued optimism of Indian companies about economic reforms but weighed down by the Chinese economic slowdown.
Consumer confidence across the region is still high despite some recent declines and our business in the region is continuing to do well: GDV growth in the mid-teens the same as last quarter processed transaction growth in the low 20s down slightly from the last quarter.
So overall when we put this all together economic environments in the U.S.
and Europe are showing signs of improvement but challenges still remain in some areas of Latin America and the Asia Pacific region.
Our business continues to be impacted by the strong U.S.
dollar but the underlying fundamentals of our business remain strong and we run the business for those underlying fundamentals.
And that's what's going to help us navigate through these economic and dollar challenges.
So before we go to our business highlights let me quickly update you on the European regulatory matters on Russia and on China.
So I'll start with the European registration related to card payments.
The European Parliament and the Council of Ministers have signed the final text.
We expect official publication of the legislation in the next couple of weeks.
Interchange caps will become effective six months later so sometime towards the end of this year.
And all other parts of the legislation will apply starting 12 months after the effective date so we're talking mid-2016 for that.
In Russia we've actually successfully migrated our local card transactions to the new domestic NSPK platform by the April 1 deadline and we were the first network to do so.
We met the requirements of the Russian legislation.
We've had no service disruption to card holders and we're now switching domestic transactions through NSPK but we're continuing to provide all of the value added services to our customers through our direct capabilities.
In terms of the financial impact to our business no change in our previous estimate of something less than $50 million on an annualized basis of additional costs.
And last week as you all read China announced that international payment companies like MasterCard will be allowed to establish domestic switching operations in China.
Obviously and clearly a large opportunity for us over the next long-term decade or whichever way you look at it it's a great opportunity.
It's a large marketplace and we are keen to play there and we are encouraged by the announcement.
We want to switch domestic transactions in China as soon as possible.
We want to leverage the investments we've already made in that market.
But having said that there are a number of steps that need to be completed before we reach that point.
Detailed regulations are yet to be issued.
Some combination of the People's Bank of China and the China Banking Regulatory Commission will put out those detailed regulations over the next period of time.
It's unclear to me exactly when those will get published.
We will need to then submit a license application.
Clearly we're already preparing that so we can go with that as soon as the regulations are issued.
Then we'll need to work with the government get that application approved satisfy the detailed requirements of the regulations.
So we don't really know how long that process will take for sure.
But we do know some of the requirements already today.
So there is for example a capital commitment required to the tune of roughly $160 million.
We also know we'll need to provide some form of on soil switching.
And as you know we have distributed network processors.
But in addition to those we have been investing on soil in China over the last period of time.
We will need to assess the extent to which those existing investments already satisfy what regulations need and do whatever else is required to meet their needs.
And then we will be in the right place to be able to be fully capable of taking advantage of these new domestic switching regulations.
So all that said the full requirements will only become clear when these detailed regulations are issued.
I kind of think that we should expect to be in a position to switch in China sometime towards the end of 2016 and obviously if it moves more quickly that's great for us.
But in the meantime there's a lot of people in the company working very hard to get ready for this opportunity to take advantage of it as soon as we possibly can.
So recent business activity.
During the quarter we signed a number of new agreements and renewals supporting the expansion of our business around the world and let me give you a few examples.
The first we enhanced our global partnership with Citi.
Citi as you know is the world's largest credit card issuer.
We've now got a new and expanded ten-year agreement to move all their proprietary consumer credit and debit card portfolios to MasterCard.
In Brazil we signed a new 20-year agreement with Itaú and that further strengthens our long-term strategic relationship with the institution that is today our largest customer in the Latin American region.
And this agreement increases our share of Itaú's credit debit and prepaid portfolios.
It gives us exclusive rights to switch all of their domestic and international transactions allows us to create a new payment network in Brazil jointly with Itaú and us.
Of course that's subject the last part is subject to getting regulatory approvals.
But overall we are very pleased with this opportunity to be a stronger partner of both Citibank's and Itaú's.
And meanwhile we signed new agreements with Barclaycard in the U.K.
We're converting a significant part of their commercial card business to MasterCard.
In Ireland we signed with the Bank of Ireland to convert their commercial and consumer credit portfolios to MasterCard.
I think these deals should help us substantially increase our share in the commercial credit market in the U.K.
and our overall credit share in Ireland.
In New Zealand Westpac and Air New Zealand are going to convert their Airpoints reward credit and commercial programs to MasterCard branded cards so developments in different parts of the world.
Meanwhile we're continuing with all of our innovation efforts across the digital space.
Starting with MasterPass last quarter I mentioned our MasterPass platform was live in 16 countries around the world.
And I'm very pleased to share that we've since added Korea to the list of live markets as well as more than doubled our global merchant acceptance of MasterPass to nearly a quarter of a million merchants.
And there are more in the pipeline.
It's like one of those ads you hear on TV that says wait there's more to come.
So some specific examples of our progress include we announced a three-year strategic partnership and relationship with McDonald's in the UAE and across 14 key markets in Middle East Africa and Europe.
And what we're doing with them is introducing contactless payments in their restaurants and enabling MasterPass for online ordering.
Another area where MasterPass is gaining momentum is transit.
We just recently announced a global partnership with Cubic Transportation Systems.
They're a leading provider for smart city transit solutions in London and Chicago and other such cities.
As part of that agreement MasterPass will be integrated with Cubic's NextWave ticketing and journey planning app which really means we'll have to accelerate conversion of cash payments in transit into these digital payments.
So quick service restaurants the McDonald's example; transit systems the Cubic example gives us two of what we are doing to extend our reach in cash strongholds.
A couple other examples are all with mobile point of sale remember that mobile is not just about allowing consumers to make payments with their phones.
It actually an even more interesting option is to involve expanding acceptance to merchants who previously had no ability to take electronic payments through standard POS terminals.
We've had a number of those mobile point of sale rollouts this quarter.
In Nigeria we partnered with First Bank of Nigeria and with Guaranty Trust Bank.
We've got MPOS devices to micro small and medium businesses to accept card transactions for the first time.
In Hungary we partnered with the insurance company Allianz to provide their sales agents with an MPOS device that accepts mag stripe chip and contactless cards.
So basically their clients don't need to make cash payments at a post office or through a bank transfer.
They can use their card and the MPOS device that's with the insurance agent.
So continuing on the mobile front we've all watched the launch of Apple Pay with great interest.
And as you know they were the first digital giant to enter that space.
And as you now know their new Apple Watch has Apple Pay capabilities built into it.
But in March we also announced that we're working with Samsung to enable Samsung Pay which will soon launch in the United States.
You've probably heard us talk about the fact that we are technology agnostic when it comes to mobile and digital payments and we are determined to support implementations based on different market models.
One of the first implementations of the cloud-based mobile solution is the Commonwealth Bank of Australia who just recently launched their Tap &amp; Pay mobile payment solution across Android devices.
Another example of a different mobile model is our recently announced agreement with the Egyptian government where we will extend financial services to more than 54 million Egyptians by providing the platform that links their national ID with the first national mobile wallet.
And clearly the program has a financial inclusion aspect but it's much broader because it provides every Egyptian citizen with the tools to electronically receive government payments and a companion card to be used in purchases bill payments domestic remittances.
And finally a word about our recent announcement about the intention to acquire Applied Predictive Technologies.
APT is a leading cloud-based analytics company.
Their platform basically enables companies across a number of industries to use their own data to accurately measure the profit impact of marketing of merchandizing of operations of capital initiatives.
And last quarter we talked about the acquisition of 5one a retail consulting and analytics firm.
And by adding APT's capabilities with 5one's what we're trying to do is advance our ability to deliver differentiated products to merchants.
Our analytic and consulting capabilities in our own shop along with our global footprint will allow for the expansion of APT's platform and of course 5one's.
And that's a win-win for both of us.
So we expect to complete this APT acquisition sometime over the second quarter.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Martina for an update on our financial results and operating metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
Let me begin on page three of our slide deck where you can see the difference between as reported and FX adjusted growth rates for this quarter.
Although the Brazilian Real had some impact the differential was primarily driven by the Euro U.S.
Dollar exchange rate.
So here you can see EPS growth continues to be strong at 22% on an as reported basis and 29% after adjusting for currency.
Continued revenue momentum good cost control and executing on our tax strategies and the current share repurchase program all contributed to that performance.
I'd like to point out a few items here and then I'll talk about the major P&amp;L line items in the subsequent slides.
So first of all acquisitions that we made in 2014 drove $0.02 of dilution.
Second you can see the tax rate was favorable at 23.9% in the quarter primarily due to our continued focus on initiatives to better align our tax structure with our business footprint as well as a discrete item that resulted in our ability to claim foreign tax credits in the U.S.
this quarter.
Third share repurchases contributed $0.03 per share.
During the first quarter we repurchased 11 million shares at a cost of about $947 million.
And through April 22nd we repurchased an additional 2.7 million shares at a cost of approximately $240 million.
And we now have 2.8 billion remaining under the current authorization.
Lastly cash flow from operations was a little over $911 million.
We ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of about $5.9 billion.
So let me turn to page 4.
Here you can see as usual our operational metrics for the first quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 12% on a local currency basis down slightly from last quarter.
Overall our U.S.
GDV grew 7% made up of credit and debit growth of 5% and 8% respectively.
Total U.S.
GDV was about 1% down from last quarter primarily due to the increased headwinds from lower gas prices.
Said differently this means that gas added two PPT impact in the first quarter of 2015 versus a one PPT impact in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 15% on a local currency basis about the same as last quarter and primarily driven by Turkey Sweden and Canada.
Cross-border volume you can see grew 19% on a local currency basis and that is the same of what we saw in the fourth quarter which continues to be primarily driven by Europe.
Growth in Europe was in the low 20's with the U.K.
Germany Italy and Sweden as key contributors to the growth.
On page five you see processed transactions grew 12% globally to 11 billion and we continued to see double-digit growth in most regions.
Growth increased from the 11% that we saw in the fourth quarter primarily due to Europe and it was again driven by Sweden Russia Poland and Netherlands similar to last quarter.
Globally the number of cards grew 8% with 2.2 billion MasterCard or Maestro branded cards.
And now turning to page six for highlights on a few of the revenue line items.
Net revenue growth was 3% as reported or 8% when you adjust for currency.
This differential is due to the currency headwinds primarily from the Euro U.S.
Dollar exchange rate.
Additionally the impact of local currency exchange rates was about 2 PPT headwind.
Acquisitions also contributed a little more than 2 PPT to the net revenue growth.
And after you exclude the impact of both local and functional currencies as well as the impact of acquisitions we saw underlying net revenue growth of 8%.
This reflects the underlying volume performance we expected as well as a higher level of rebates and incentives that I talked about on our last earnings call.
Specifically rebates and incentives grew 25% in line with our expectations primarily driven by the front-loaded impact over the life of the contract from certain customer renewals which Ajay mentioned in his comments.
Now let me look quickly at the other individual revenue line items on an FX adjusted basis.
Domestic assessments grew 8% while worldwide GDV grew 12%.
This 4 PPT gap is primarily due to the impact of local currency somewhat offset by pricing.
Cross-border volume fees grew 9% while cross-border volume grew 19%.
Of the 10 PPT gap the majority is due to a higher mix of intra-Europe activity as well as some local currency impact.
Transaction processing fees grew 13% primarily driven by the 12% growth in processed transactions.
And finally other revenues grew 29% which continues to be driven largely by contributions from our Pinpoint acquisition as well as our Advisors business.
Moving on to page seven you can see that total operating expenses decreased 1% in the quarter but increased 3% on an FX adjusted basis.
Overall M&amp;A activities contributed 9 PPT to total expense growth.
But let me spend a minute on G&amp;A which grew only 1% year-over-year and explain how that happened.
First we continue to organically invest in our strategic initiatives while managing our expenses very carefully.
As a result the underlying level of G&amp;A expense grew 2 PPT this quarter.
Second acquisitions added 10 PPT to this growth quarter this is in the G&amp;A line as we made a number of acquisitions in the second half of last year which haven't yet lapped into our base run rate.
However these factors were offset by two FX related gains that were $69 million higher than last year or 11 PPT and thus lowered overall G&amp;A expense growth to 1%.
The first was FX gains related to our normal hedging activities mainly due to the appreciating U.S.
Dollar.
And the second was a balance sheet remeasurement gain primarily related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar.
With that let me turn to slide eight and let's discuss what we have seen in April through the 21st.
Most of our business drivers are similar to what we experienced in the first quarter.
The numbers through April 21st are as follows.
Starting with processed volumes we saw global growth of 10% similar to the first quarter.
In the U.S.
our processed volume grew 4% the same as what we saw last quarter including roughly a 2 PPT impact from lower gas prices.
Processed volume outside the U.S.
grew 16% about 1 PPT lower than the first quarter with growth of mid to high teens in each region.
And globally processed transaction growth was 12% and that's similar to what we saw in the first quarter with double-digit growth in all regions except the U.S.
which grew in the mid-single digits.
And with respect to cross-border our volumes grew at 17% globally down 2 PPT from our first quarter growth.
While the U.S.
saw somewhat higher growth in April most other regions saw a deceleration.
Looking ahead let me start with some commentary about full year 2015.
Given the continued strength of the U.S.
Dollar impacting many U.S.
multinationals including us I am going to start by summarizing our thoughts about FX.
And remember currency impacts us in two ways.
First since the beginning of the year the significant depreciation of the Euro and the Real the Brazilian Real versus the U.S.
Dollar has increased the impact of the functional FX translation since my January commentary.
If the rates for our functional currencies remain similar to where they are today that is the Euro trading at the 1.09 level and the Brazilian Real at the 2.94 level for the rest of the year the net impact of the Euro and Real would be a 6 PPT to 8 PPT headwind mostly from the Euro actually to our as reported results for the full year.
And it's depending on what line item we are talking about so revenue net income or EPS.
Second we have the impact of local currency rates relatively to the functional currencies and we continue to expect some net headwind throughout the year both to revenue and the bottom line.
And based on the current rates this is still likely to be in the 2 PPT range similar to our estimate in late January.
The impact of this is already included in our FX adjusted guidance.
At current FX rates both of these impacts will provide a headwind of about $700 million to net revenue and about $300 million to net income for full year 2015.
So with that as a backdrop let me get into some specific P&amp;L line items.
Our underlying business remains strong; however some components of our 2015 outlook have changed due to the impact of FX as I just talked about and our latest acquisition Applied Predictive Technologies or APT.
On an FX adjusted basis we continue to expect high-single digit net revenue growth for 2015 including roughly 2 PPT from our M&amp;A transactions.
And we're seeing good traction from many of our recent portfolio wins and new product initiatives.
However revenue growth will be impacted by some items specific to 2015 which we highlighted back in January.
The first as we have already seen in the first quarter a couple of significant contract renewals that provide the foundation for future growth come with more front-loaded incentives over the life of the contract than our typical agreements.
And the next three quarters will reflect that too.
Second while the Chase conversion to a competitor is essentially now complete we will continue to see the lapping impact over the remainder of 2015.
So on an as reported basis the net revenue growth rate will now likely be in the low-single digit range as a result of the stronger FX headwinds than we forecasted at the beginning of the year primarily from the Euro functional translation.
And based on the current FX rates this would be about a 6 PPT impact.
Moving to rebates and incentives let me address some questions we've been getting about what we mean by front-loaded incentives.
This is a reference to incurring more incentives in the earlier years of a contract.
Also with the recent deal signings we now expect full year 2015 rebates and incentives growth to be similar to what we saw in Q1 with a somewhat higher growth rate in the second quarter.
Overall we now project the growth rate for total operating expenses for full year 2015 to be in the mid-single digits on an FX adjusted basis.
And this continues to be predominantly due to the roughly 7 PPT impact from our announced M&amp;A activities with more of that impact occurring in the first half of the year.
However as reported expense growth will now likely be in the low-single digit range after considering a roughly 4 PPT tailwind from the Euro and the Real translation.
Let me give you an update on potential dilution from M&amp;A activities.
With the expected addition of APT by the end of the second quarter we now project total EPS dilution will be about $0.11 to $0.13 for full year 2015.
Less than half of the expected dilution is due to the amortization of acquired intangibles.
As I said in the last quarter you should assume a full year 2015 tax rate of about 28%.
That has not changed but it's due to the continued benefits we expect from the tax initiatives I discussed in our January earnings call.
And given all of the detail I just went through let me just step back and summarize a bit here.
We continue to expect solid fundamentals to drive our underlying business in 2015 and that's despite the mixed economic environment as well as the more significant headwinds from FX than we expected back in January.
As you can see we continue to sign customer contracts and we continue to invest in the right strategic areas while managing our expenses prudently.
Finally let me move on to our long-term performance objectives in 2013 to 2015 for that period which remain unchanged from what I said on our year-end earnings call back in late January.
Given our expectations for 2015 revenue growth we expect to deliver at our low end of the 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR range.
We continue to expect at least 20% EPS CAGR for the three-year period due to continued expense management as well as benefits from our lower tax rate and share repurchases.
And we remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
Just remember these objectives are on a constant currency basis and they do exclude our 2014 M&amp;A activities as well as any new ones that might occur this year.
As far as rolling our performance objectives forward again nothing different from what I said in January.
The overall growth prospects for the payments industries has not changed.
The underlying drivers of our business remain solid and we are expanding our reach in areas that we're strategically targeting such as processing loyalty information services and all things digital.
We will provide you with our new long-term objectives before the end of this year most likely at our Investor Day in September.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thanks Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
In order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for anything additional.
Keith? Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operation Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of James Friedman from Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
I wanted to ask Ajay about the APT acquisition.
I just did that three-minute summary on their website.
It's very helpful.
I was wondering how you'll sell it.
Is that going to be sold through MasterCard Consulting? Or will that be embraced by your bank partners for resale into the channel? It depends on which kind of product you're referring to.
APT has products that go to merchants they go to banks they go to consumer product companies depending on what kind of need for analytical capability that company has.
A large part of their current client base is merchants in which case they have their two methods of getting out there.
One is their own sales force which essentially reaches merchants and embeds the analytical capability like a software as a service provider a SaaS provider on the computer screens of individuals in the merchant management system.
And the other way of course will be through our own sales force in our Advisors and information services business where we believe we can add value to what they're doing.
So the idea is to use both sales forces but to embed the capability in the client's end use system by embedding the software as a service approach to the business.
That's what APT does.
It's a little different from the way we do our current data stuff which tends to be more bespoke engagement by engagement.
And that's the difference in the two models.
And I think there's space for both in this growing big data market.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Maurer from Autonomous.
Your line is open.
Craig? Craig? Are you there? Yeah.
Sorry about that.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I had a quick question on China.
When I was there and met with management there they had indicated that network economics were similar to what MasterCard sees globally.
And this was driven essentially by their hope to go public and want to be comparable.
Can you confirm if that's the case because it's a little hard to actually confirm that? Yeah.
So I like the fact that you started by saying a quick question on China.
You must be the only guy who thinks that China is answerable in quick questions right? But I – Craig the fact is that the data around China and the current economics of the domestic payment system which is what you're asking about is opaque because there is no public data obviously available.
What I do know from all of the many trips I've been making there now for the better part of 10 to 12 years is that interchange rates on domestic transactions tend to be lower than the interchange rates that you would see on the average – on the average across the world in both credit and debit.
You need to know that credit domestically is much smaller than debit today.
And in fact the largest use of payment cards domestically in China today is to take out cash from an ATM.
And an even larger use is for the cards to remain dormant.
So this is not a marketplace that is ready and spending actively on cards across all categories.
It's a marketplace with a very large domestic card issuance with a fairly large dormant card base with what is used being used more for taking out cash at an ATM or a bank branch rather than a point of sale use with lower credit use than debit.
It's a typical early stage electronic payments developing market with one dynamic which is that interchange rates are lower than you would normally have expected.
Network economics depend on what we are able to strike as deals with the different issuers and merchants.
And I'm going to reserve my judgment on that until I get my chance to really get into those deals because right now we don't have those deals.
Our deals tend to be on cross-border use of these cards both outward and inward.
And so we're going to have to wait and see how that goes.
But there's no denying one the enormous volume you can get.
And if your P&amp;L is constructed like ours where we have a relatively low variable cost per transaction that is an attractive opportunity.
There's no denying that.
And you'll need to do a lot of work with issuers you'll need to do a lot of work with merchants and acquirers to drive acceptance.
There's a lot of things to be done over the next few years but I see it as a really large and interesting opportunity for companies like ours.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
I guess I had a question on China but Ajay just answered it.
But secondly you talked Ajay about the mixed economic signals you're getting.
Could you just talk about how you're seeing the economy develop in the United States and abroad? Obviously it's more challenged abroad but even in the U.S.
it's been quite sluggish.
Could you just provide any perspective on that? And just I'm sorry one question for Martina.
So you're expecting 20% growth in rebates and incentives on an absolute basis for the year.
I just want to clarify that.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Let me just take that.
All I said is that you can extrapolate from the growth in the first quarter which was 25% FX adjusted for the rest of the year.
The only comment that I made in addition to that that in the second quarter you should see somewhat higher growth for rebates and incentives and that's just as a fact of how agreements are coming to fruition and flowing into a particular quarter.
And Sanjay back to your question on economics we talked a little bit about where the U.S.
is and I feel like consumers are optimistic because they're seeing savings from the gas price after all gas prices are down substantially and if you did an average individual households math you probably are pulling between $8 billion and $10 billion out from the spending on gas which could be available to go into other avenues.
So they're optimistic because they feel that money in their pocket.
What they're doing with it is they're paying down some debt which you can see in the numbers on consumer debt across the country both in revolving debt but also in personal unsecured loans and also to an extent in mortgages.
And then you can see that some of the money is clearly being used to bump up personal savings rates.
And personal savings rates were I think in March as high as 5.8%.
They've gone down to 2% six seven months ago.
As you remember just after the crisis they were at 6% and 7%.
So I don't know that 5.8% is a bad thing for the country long term by the way probably a good thing but I think what's going on here is that not all the money is coming out into goods and services spending.
So with a company like us because we don't really get any benefit out of a higher spending rate directly we don't get any benefit out of a higher savings rate I'm sorry directly we also don't get any real benefit out of a lower pay down of debt we don't get any saved benefit.
We get benefit when they spend.
And overall spending is not growing in the form that you would see it once you added gas back in.
That's what we're seeing.
Now there's an extra nugget into this which is that luxury goods sales and you can see it in the results on a number of the luxury goods retailers Coach recently others like that their sales are not growing the way they were six eight months ago.
And most of that I think is caused by the fact that inbound tourists' arrivals into the U.S.
and their spending patterns given the relative strength of the Dollar to the Euro the Japanese Yen the Brazilian Real the people who are spending of course the Russians aren't coming in as much as they were some time ago all of that is impacting luxury goods spending which also by the way feeds into the total retail spend number.
So that's a little extra digging probably more than you wanted but that's what's going on.
Now I don't see this as a long-term issue actually not even a medium-term issue.
I think you'll see tourism probably improving over the next few months.
I think you'll see Americans travelling out in the summer.
I think you'll see others coming in.
And I think we're going to look at a somewhat different pattern of consumer spending over the next three to six months just because underlying consumer sentiment is positive.
So that's how I feel about it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Next question please.
Your next question comes from the line of Smitti from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thank you.
I just want to follow up on the topic of tokenization.
Can you share with us what you're hearing from your various partners about the tokenization service rate card that you guys published last year? And with the increased usage of tokenization many merchants have also been sort of talking about trying to create trying to drive the creation of a new interchange category.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on that also.
So the first one I mean the rate card frankly there's no discussion right now because as we've all done including our competitors we've all said there is no implementation of that rate card until 2016 at least in January.
That's kind of what we've all said.
The idea right now is to ensure tokenization gets adopted in the market.
And remember even if we do something in January with the tokenization rates right now tokenization is only going in for transactions over the phone over mobile phone kind of transactions.
And as you know from your own research and details on this that's still a small part of total expenditure and transactions in the United States.
So I just would like to put that genie into its bottle in where it belongs.
It's very important.
It's very critical for securitizing or for securing digital transactions no doubt.
It's got an implementation time line which is going to take some time for it to become more ubiquitous than just the phone-based transactions today.
That's the context I'd like to put it in.
We are very committed it to.
We're investing a very large sum of money in ensuring our capabilities in it.
We are investing money in rolling it out into other markets overseas.
And different people claim different dates when they're going to reach the market.
I would tell you discount all that until you see it in the market.
This is not an easy thing to get done.
It's not an easy thing to roll out.
So we're working very hard on that.
As far as the actual adoption by merchants of different or the request by merchants to think about different interchange rates are concerned look at the end of the day there's card not present rates and there's card present rates.
And both have been applying for a period of time.
If digitization were to become ubiquitous would there be a change in those two buckets of rates? Would there be a third? Would one move down one move up or would there be four five different buckets? That's just speculation right now.
We are far away from a stage where tokenized transactions comprise an adequate percentage of the total to drive great changes in the marketplace other than the excitement around finally getting a really secure system for digital transactions.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Kupferberg from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
Can you give us a sense in terms of timing when these incremental volumes from the Citi renewal when those will migrate to MasterCard? Will that timing vary by geography? And then can you just clarify if you're still expecting 1% pricing lift in the full year guidance? Jason first of all the Citi volumes will be migrating over a number of years okay? Every region will be a little bit different and you will just see that coming in to our baseline over time.
Secondly in terms of the pricing we really didn't give any pricing guidance.
We said that our overall three-year guidance has a very small part of guidance – pricing assumed so but we didn't give anything specifically for this year.
And in fact when you look at this quarter I said there was a little bit of pricing in the domestic assessment but when you look at overall revenues it was minimally impacted by any pricing actions.
Your next question comes from the line of David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Could you just talk about G&amp;A expense and as you look out over the course of the year where are you still investing and where you might have growth? And then I wonder if Martina you could clarify again the charge for the Bolivar? Yeah.
So first of all on G&amp;A as I said on an FX adjusted basis for full year 2015 you should expect a mid-single digit kind of range.
And that is predominantly driven by the 7 PPT impact from all of our announced M&amp;A activities.
So of course we are going to continue to organically invest in all of our strategic areas that are called out: the processing area the loyalty area.
You just saw that we did the acquisition in the information services area.
So of course we are going to do that but we are going to do that with a very astute and careful expense management that we have put into the company.
So that's all put together.
It goes – gets to that mid-single digit growth number for the year.
In terms of the Venezuelan bolivar so a couple of things on that.
First of all part of our business in Venezuela is in Bolivars part of our business in Venezuela is in U.S.
Dollars.
The business that we have in Bolivars in Venezuela is done as such that we can't take the Bolivar out of the country right? The country has currency restrictions.
So what we have engaged like many other multinationals into natural hedging strategies that allow us over time to be protecting the investment that we have in this country.
Part of that hedging strategy involves for us to actually take up a loan some time ago where we bought some real property in the country.
And what happens when you have a devaluation of that currency of the Bolivar is you're actually having to devalue that monetary asset the loan and that results in a gain.
That gain is basically buffering the impact that we will be having from that Bolivar devaluation on our revenues for the year.
That's about a $40 million impact to our top line that's all included in the discussions that I had with you this morning for 2015 revenues.
But that's how this works.
The thing I would add to that is on the expense thing just to make sure you got it right.
What Martina was talking about is that total operating expense for the full year 2015 will be in that mid-single digit number on an FX adjusted basis.
On an as reported basis it will be in the low single digit range.
That's what she was referring to just now David when she was talking about the numbers to you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And the $40 million is for the year not the quarter? That is for the year.
Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And that's all factored in.
In fact what we tried to do in the morning was tell you that our FX adjusted view of the year has not changed a great deal other than we've got a new acquisition which will have what it has on our impact.
But basically FX itself has changed quite dramatically from where we were in the middle early part of January.
It was already a dramatic change by then.
It's moved further and that's what we were trying to lay out for you guys as you think through the next three quarters.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
I guess maybe taking both of these items together both your kind of investment and expenses related to the acquisitions and the rebates and incentives for these deals could you talk a little bit about the payback period for those two things and how we can see that impact kind of revenues in future years? Yeah.
So first of all on the M&amp;A investments what we are typically targeting is – so first of all we're looking at every M&amp;A transaction from a discounted cash flow analysis right? And we typically like to see a payback over a two to three-year period from a cash flow point of view.
That does not necessarily mirror the accounting view simply because accounting often is done differently than what you'd see coming through in the cash.
But again and we said that a number of times publicly we try to hope to get to dilution impact of no more than two years.
And so you should be seeing these acquisitions coming to fruition the 2014 acquisition sometime later in 2016 as well as the 2015 acquisitions that we're doing which APT is the big one at this point in time you would be seeing that coming through later in 2017.
So that's how we think about acquisitions.
From a rebates and incentives point of view I just have to remind you every deal is different.
All right? We have a thousand of deals.
Every deal is different.
Every year we're writing hundreds of deals.
When you look at some deals you can get actually a relatively quick payback.
It could be in the six seven nine-month period but it also depends when you have cards converting or whether you have that portfolio already and you're just making more out of that portfolio i.e.
you're encouraging more volume and transactions coming on.
Some of the bigger deals might have a longer payback because you have to do certain investments in order to encourage that portfolio to behave the way that you would like it to behave.
So Moshe I have to tell you it's a fairly wide range in terms of the payback calculation.
And every deal has a payback calculation obviously but it's not something you can generalize from easily.
And I think the second part I'd add to the conversation earlier about acquisitions because I have been asked this once or twice remember that when we talk about our guidance ex-acquisitions by the time the second year of a deal is complete that acquisition is in our base.
It is part of what we run.
So I'm not asking for a way to ex-acquisitions into infinity.
It's two years for any acquisition.
So Martina said something in this conversation about the 2014 acquisitions are what she's excluding from the guidance because 2014 and 2015 are within that two-year period.
The deals we did before that Access Prepaid Worldwide which was taken from Travelex or DataCash which we bought or others of that type are all in our base.
And frankly without Access Prepaid Worldwide I doubt we would have achieved the kind of success we've achieved on our prepaid business over the last five years where we have gone from a small market share to one of the largest players in the business around the world today.
So we get the thing back and it's just that we try to make sure you understand that our guidance is excluding them for two years because I don't know what deal I'm going to do when I give you the guidance for the two years.
That's all I'm trying to do.
Got it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Darrin Peller from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Look I just want to start off I mean Martina as I think you mentioned earlier front-loading incentives such that you have more in earlier years.
Is it fair to assume that the growth of incentives or maybe just the incentive number as a percentage of total gross revenue could actually drop in 2016 or 2017? And then just to Ajay when looking at the pipeline are there potential contract renewals or incremental wins that are actually large enough to also move the needle like Citi or Itaú just did? All right.
Darrin let me take your first question.
You know every quarter every year we are signing agreements.
And they're all incremental to our base.
So if you were to see a drop in the rebates and incentives quite frankly I would be worried about it.
You only see a vibrant business if we continue to add to what we need to do from a stock point of view on the deal side.
And that will involve generally and you've seen it over the last seven years adding to rebates and incentives.
The other thing that you need to remember how we construct our deals.
Our deals are constructed in such a way that we give higher rebates incentives for those clients who deliver more volume and transactions to us.
So as volume and transactions go up mostly on the volume side a little bit less on the transaction side you will be naturally seeing the rebates and incentives line floating up.
So you'd also asked a question about will the 25% growth rate be something that stays over the next two years through quarters because there's bunching here will that growth rate reduce in the future.
It's very tough to say that to you because of what Martina just explained because there's deals flowing through and that connects to your second question about do I see deals coming over the next two or three years I sure as heck do because otherwise I wouldn't have anything to do for the next three years.
That would be a real problem quite frankly.
That would be a real problem.
I'd drive all of these guys crazy.
But the fact is that I really can't tell what you those are at this stage.
No idea.
It'll come when they come.
But the good news is I would encourage you to think about rebates and incentives as good cholesterol where you get a deal done and if it's front loaded as in a couple of these that's actually also not a bad thing today.
Now accounting could change and accounting could cause lots of headaches for everybody about front loading versus later loading and frankly I don't – I try to stay away from all the accounting stuff when you do this and stay with the logic of what a customer is looking for and what our relationship with that customer will be and what the franchise value of that deal will be and what the revenue growth over the life of that deal will be and what the profitability over the life of that deal will be and what the extra value added services we sell into that client over the life of the deal will be those conversations I'm happy to have every day.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Keane of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
I just want to ask about the long-term revenue objectives.
I know you talked about the low end.
But if you look at the current quarter obviously if you ex- out currency and acquisitions like the long-term objectives do it's running below that.
Just trying to figure out the gap is that gap 100% due to economy? And then let me just add me one more Barbara I apologize just on the European interchange regs now that they are finalized is there any different impact you guys think we should know about for the model going forward? Thanks so much.
First of all on our 2013 and 2015 revenue objectives yes we're going to come in at the low end of the range.
We're not coming in below we're coming in at the low end of the range.
And as you can see in 2013 and 2014 we performed above the range and this year for a number of factors we will be a little bit below the range but when you add it all up it will be at the range.
In terms of the factors where we're performing a little bit below the range this year one local FX impact right I mean you saw that very clearly that is a big impact it's two PPT at this point in time on the top line yes it gets somewhat offset by the expense line and you can actually see from an EPS point of view we're navigating through that headwind relatively well.
Secondly when you look at gas prices right gas prices have a big impact you guys know from a volume and from a transaction point of view in the United States it's really important to be looking at that and we're going to feel through something like that too.
So those are I think the two big ones.
I guess the only thing I'd add to that is you know we've told you that we've got in this particular year these big renewals which are coming front loaded so that has a minor impact.
But don't conclude that it's all due to the economy.
It's first of all struggling through those local FX rates there's a lot there because we talk to you ex-FX just takes out the Real and the Euro but remember all of the other currencies and we work our way through those all the time.
So that's got a big chunk in there and then of course there's the gas here and there's all these economic ups and downs.
But you're trying to figure out where this is going.
Where this is going you'll get to know when we do Investor Day but I don't see and neither does Martina any fundamental change on the underlying dynamics or the kind of business we're doing this year versus the prior two years not at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I was hoping you could give a little color on some of the mix of the growth of your business if you would the large commercial commercial has been a big growth driver for you guys in the U.S.
are you seeing any – globally any different trends on the large commercial versus small business and then are you seeing – is prepaid still a big global growth driver? So commercial is a driver still across the world.
It's not just large commercial.
Inside our commercial business it certainly is some of the large commercial businesses but also there's all the small business and there's portions of business we're doing where we use MasterCard virtual card number capability to intervene in the flow between businesses.
So there's a number of things inside the commercial business.
And maybe one of the things we could do at investor day is to give you guys a little more insight into the different things we're doing around the commercial business and we probably should do that.
But it's got more than just the large commercial insight.
I actually continue to believe that we have a real opportunity for growth as a company in that space because we have a series of good assets that we've put together from our virtual card number capability to our ability with our acceptance being superior to that of certain other brands which will remain unnamed to our ability to do business across the world with one technology across all the regions.
There's a number of advantages there which I still believe commercial has that we can play with.
It's our data capabilities with smart data.
There's a whole series of these.
So I still think of that as a big and decent opportunity.
On prepaid yes prepaid has been growing well over the last three to four years.
I just referred to prepaid when we talked about the acquisitions and the help we got from Access Prepaid Worldwide to help us in the prepaid program management business.
I consider that to be an opportunity still for various reasons.
One of those is there's an increasing desire across the world to get to the underserved in financial inclusion terms.
Clearly prepaid is the best product in some form or the other whether delivered on a card or delivered on the phone or delivered through a fingerprint for that population.
It reduces the risk.
It's more appropriate for governments to transfer benefits it's better for NGOs the whole lot.
So I think you'll see numbers grow there.
Those tend to come with lower economics because those people tend to take out cash first and use the point of sale later in their development cycle.
But this is all part of our ways that growth is added.
So yes we're getting a mix of growth from commercial and prepaid and I think commercial will keep growing and I think prepaid will but with different economics from commercial.
Thank you.
Operator I think we have time for one last question.
Our last question comes from the line of Andrew Jeffrey from SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for sneaking me in.
Quick one Martina I noticed the number of Maestro cards is down year-on-year.
Is there anything to call out there? And are EU regulations something that are driving that? Andrew it has nothing to do with regulations but it has rather to do with what we can do with certain customers to be moving them from the Maestro product to the MasterCard debit product.
MasterCard debit product has more functionality and so we have in a number of countries like Poland Russia Brazil a couple of other countries we have those customers really moving over to MasterCard debit card and that's all you're seeing.
Okay.
To your benefit I take it? Yeah.
Yes.
Absolutely.
It's something we'd like to do more of and like to encourage in some cases but also having Maestro so we end up with a benefit of having a two-brand strategy in debit.
Thank you.
Great.
Well thank you all for questions.
I'm going to leave you with a couple of closing thoughts.
You know we just talked about this in the Q&amp;A but the world economy continues to be complicated and things aren't completely clear yet but the U.S.
looks to be in better shape and people aren't yet spending all of their savings from lower gas prices as I was explaining in response to Sanjay's question but it's there.
They are spending ex- that gas and I believe you will see improvements in that.
I think Europe is slowly improving but the Russian economy remains challenged and that's a fairly large economy around the world to have that challenge in.
And Asia and Latin America markets with economics problems as well.
Currency moves have added to the challenges.
I think we're managing our way through it with tight cost controls.
The strong underlying dynamics of our business remain unchanged.
Our momentum continues we are launching new products we are working with the digital giants we are working with banks getting new deals from them we're building new relationships with merchants we are acquiring things to help us cement those relationships.
That's all good stuff.
We are very focused on all of the right things.
And so thank you for your continued support of the company.
Thank you for joining us today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for participating.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to MasterCard's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
My name is John and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Barbara Gasper Executive Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you John.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us for a discussion about our second quarter 2015 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
Even if you think you have already dialed into the queue you will need to register again following our prepared comments.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website MasterCard.com.
Both the release and the slide deck include reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to their GAAP equivalents.
These documents have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one month.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
With that I will now turn the call over to Ajay.
Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
Our business continues to perform well with good volume and good transaction growth as well as the signing of a number of new deals.
And as you all know that's despite the mixed economic environment we're all navigating through.
After we adjust for currency headwinds our net revenue grew 7% which is exactly in line with our expectations.
And as you know executing on our strategy over the last few years has included our acquiring a number of businesses and in fact that accelerated over the past year or so.
And they are having a slight drag in our bottom line until we get them fully integrated.
As we do this we are very closely monitoring our organic expense growth to help fund these integrations and that close care has delivered EPS growth of 15%.
That of course excludes the impacts of currency translation and a special item related to litigation that we will touch on later during the call.
I'm going to just briefly touch on global economics this quarter.
And overall the environments in the U.S.
and Europe have continued to improve as key economic indicators remained healthy.
But the U.S.
consumer is still not spending all of their gas savings.
Latin America and Asia-Pacific remain challenged most notably in Brazil and in China and our business continues to be impacted by the strong U.S.
dollar.
But our fundamentals remain strong with double-digit volume and transaction growth in spite of these economic situations.
So before we go to our business highlights let me quickly update you in China.
Two weeks ago the Chinese regulator issued a draft version of the guidelines for review and for comment.
They're going to need further clarity on some of the details there that are connected to domestic switching operations and I'm assuming that will probably happen when the final regulations are issued likely later this year.
In the meanwhile what we are doing is working on all fronts issuing acquiring and on-soil processing so we can try and take advantage of this opportunity as we get further clarity.
Based on everything we know today we continue to believe what we told you earlier; that we would be technically ready to process domestic Chinese transactions by the end of 2016.
So let's move on to some of our recent business activity.
And during the quarter we signed a number of new agreements and renewals around the world and I'm going to pick three of four examples.
So in the UK we signed a new agreement with Virgin Money to convert their debit card portfolio to contactless-enabled debit MasterCards.
And that deal now gives us 100% of Virgin Money's existing proprietary debit and credit book.
In the U.S.
we continue to grow our debit businesses by signing now for example a new agreement with TD Bank to convert their PIN debit card portfolio to preferred MasterCard routing.
In the U.S.
as well we have several co-brand credit renewals Ann Taylor Barnes &amp; Noble Brooks Brothers [Fred] Meijer and Spirit Airlines.
And so moving beyond all these specific customer agreements I'm going to talk about a couple of topics.
And the first one is we are significantly investing in cybersecurity-related technology to offer much greater protection to our cardholders to merchants to issuing banks.
And there is no silver bullet to completely eliminate fraud.
But if you apply a sensible multi-layered approach that has some coordination across the industry we are all convinced we can help to significantly reduce that risk.
And protecting card credentials through EMV through SecureCode and now through tokenization are only a few examples of our efforts in this area.
We've actually recently announced the expansion of our tokenization services to private label card issuers and we're the first data network to do so for BJ's Wholesale Club.
Kohl's and JCPenney will be among the first retailers use these services later this year.
We also partnered with Synchrony Financial and Citi Retail Services and these are two of the largest private label issuers in the U.S.
to enable the use of their private label cards in participating mobile payment and digital wallet services.
Another area of focus in this space is safety as well as using biometrics to further protect the consumer's identity.
And you've all seen news stories on pilots we are doing where consumers use an app on their smartphone to verify their identity for online transactions by taking a selfie.
For those of you attending our Investor Day in September you can take 100 selfies each and see this technology in person.
Another example is SafetyNet.
As many of you saw demonstrated at last year's Investor Day we are actually working closely with many providers including people like CrowdStrike and FireEye to share broader cyber threat information.
But the thing is with SafetyNet it's not just about sharing the information.
We don't just detect threats but we act upon them in real time by providing an independent layer of security on behalf of our issuers globally.
In 2014 for example SafetyNet detected and stopped several confirmed fraud events including two where forensics determined that the issuer exposure could have been roughly $80 million.
So SafetyNet's unique solution is now being deployed globally across all products all channels.
And over the past two years since launch more than 80% of our issuers are now using this service.
Remember not just to share the information but to act upon that in real time.
Another topic of interest is how acquisitions fit into our overall strategy.
So as a reminder our M&amp;A focus areas include loyalty data analytics processing and safety and security.
Now because these areas are all of strategic importance to us our belief is that any transaction we do there has to stand on its own in terms of contribution but it's also most importantly got to provide ways for us to cross-sell their capabilities in a bundled way with existing MasterCard products and services what we talk about as the multiplier effect.
So today I'm going to talk a little bit about what these acquisitions are doing some of them at least in combination with the rest of MasterCard.
First of all anything we acquired before 2014 such as DataCash and Access Prepaid is now already embedded in our base numbers.
These acquisitions have been extremely helpful in expanding our business and revenue growth and as I mentioned just how both on their own but also as combined with our existing products.
And let me give you one example from each of DataCash and Access.
By combining our acquisition of DataCash with our previously existing gateway services in Asia-Pacific and then our recent acquisition of TNS [Transaction Network Services] we have built one of the few global e-commerce gateway solutions available.
And that combined solution is enabling us to get closer to acquirers closer to merchants more recently deploy our innovations with them and protect their digital transactions with what I think are extremely robust fraud and risk management solutions.
So for example we now have over 120 relationships with acquirers around the world and we are providing integrated product offerings directed at merchants such as an omni-channel solution for H&amp;M in the UK.
DataCash is also enabling us to more easily deploy innovations like MasterPass.
We've added MasterPass to the Boots drug store chain website in the UK.
We just quickly connected over 2 000 merchants in just a few days for the Commonwealth Bank of Australia all these enabled through DataCash.
Another example H.I.S.; that's Japan's leading travel company is using DataCash's fraud management solution to enable safe online sales in Malaysia and in Indonesia.
Access in 2013 Access Prepaid helped Qantas upgrade its frequent flyer program to include the Qantas Cash multicurrency prepaid card.
And just recently that Qantas Cash surpassed A$1 billion in sales.
It's added almost 10 million transactions processed by MasterCard since launch.
And that by the way is just one of many currency prepaid cards in a number of verticals that have launched around the world using the program management capabilities of Access Prepaid combined with our prepaid product capacity and our selling skills in the regions.
So let's get to talk about acquisitions we've done over the past 18 months.
And those by the way are the ones we include when we call out acquisitions in our numbers.
Remember we only exclude acquisitions from our base for up to two calendar years.
And that means that by the end of this year of the acquisitions made recently only Applied Predictive Technologies APT will continue to be excluded in 2016.
So a few examples of how some of these newer acquisitions are supporting our strategy.
In February 2014 we added substantial software engineering capacity and capabilities in the digital and mobile payments area with the acquisition of C-SAM.
That's allowing us to accelerate the development and the expansion of MasterPass and other mobile payment solutions.
And just this morning we've announced the launch of MasterPass in India bringing the total number of live markets to 24.
And on the merchant side we've added Alitalia South African Airways Carnival Cruise Lines WestJet in Canada and a host of others.
In May 2014 the acquisition of ElectraCard Services ECS expanded our development capabilities and that enabled us to provide lower-cost authorization and clearing services as well as a suite of platforms that enable local issuer processing or local acquirer processing services.
As one example ECS's technology was what we used to open our processing center in Dubai last year.
So C-SAM in combination with ECS now provides the backbone of our technology hub in India.
With our large team of talented technologists we have a wealth of creative ideas.
That tech hub is playing a very important role in creating and supporting innovative digital payment technologies that we're now using around the world.
On the loyalty front we acquired Pinpoint last year.
That's the premier loyalty provider in Australia.
We're now expanding that across Asia-Pacific.
Pinpoint enables us to offer value-added solutions to issuers to merchants and to consumers.
And an example is the recent agreement with Cuscal in Australia who will not only be converting their consumer credit business to MasterCard but while doing so are adding Pinpoint's loyalty solutions.
Another example this one in the merchant space is that we recently won a deal with Dick Smith Electronics in Australia.
And this deal combines the Pinpoint redemption network for their gift cards.
We add MasterPass to their website we provide Advisors analytics to support their business.
And yet another example of using loyalty to address merchant needs and then including additional MasterCard services to help them in other ways.
And finally our most recent acquisition is APT Applied Predictive Technologies.
That's the leading cloud-based analytics company in the information services area.
Their Test &amp; Learn platform combined with our anonymized transaction data and Advisors analytics capabilities is what enables us to advance our ability to deliver differentiated products to issuers as well as to merchants and to expand our reach beyond our traditional client base.
And in fact just a few weeks after the acquisition APT's access to our expanded client base has already resulted in a number of wins and I'm going to call out two of them.
The first is with BancoPosta in Italy where APT's platform will be used to test the promotional effectiveness of their loyalty scheme.
The second one is with a leading Canadian retailer to help them address some of their key business challenges.
So why am I saying all this to you about acquisitions? Because we recognize that for each acquisition there's a certain amount of effort a certain amount of investment.
But we are clearly seeing the benefits that come from them in our engagements with clients particularly when you look at adding their capacity to the services and capability that MasterCard already provides.
So with that let me turn the call over to Martina for going into our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
So let me begin on page three of our slide deck where you see the difference between non-GAAP reported and FX-adjusted growth rates for this quarter.
The differential continues to be primarily driven by the euro-U.S.
dollar exchange rate.
And these figures also exclude the impact of a special item taken this quarter related to a settlement we made with Tesco the largest merchant involved in the UK merchant litigation case.
So you can see EPS growth was 6% or 15% after adjusting for currency.
Continued revenue momentum good cost control and executing on our tax strategies and current share repurchase program all contributed to that performance.
I'd like to point out a few items here and then I'll talk about the major P&amp;L line items in subsequent slides.
First as expected acquisitions that we made in 2014 and 2015 drove $0.03 of dilution.
Second the tax rate was favorable at 25.8% in the quarter primarily due to our continued focus on better aligning our tax structure with our business footprint.
Third share repurchases contributed $0.02 per share to our second quarter results.
As of July 22 we have $2 billion remaining under our current authorization.
Lastly cash flow from operations was $821 million.
We ended the quarter with cash cash equivalent and other liquid investments of about $5.1 billion.
So let me turn to page four where you can see the operational metrics for the second quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 13% on a local currency basis up from last quarter.
Overall our U.S.
GDV grew 7% made up of credit and debit growth of 7% and 8% respectively.
Total U.S.
GDV was up 1 ppt versus last quarter primarily due to our consumer credit programs and partially offset by the continued 2 ppt headwind from lower gas prices.
Outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 16% on a local currency basis up from last quarter and primarily driven by Europe.
Cross-border volume grew 17% on a local currency basis lower than the 19% we saw in the first quarter down slightly in all regions except the U.S.
Of particular note growth in Europe remained strong in the low 20%s with the United Kingdom Italy Germany and Sweden as key contributors.
Turning to page five you can see here processed transactions grew 13% globally to 12 billion.
We continued to see double-digit growth in most regions.
Growth increased from the 12% we saw in the first quarter primarily due to the U.S.
and Europe.
And globally the number of cards grew 8% with 2.2 billion MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards.
Now let's turn to page six for highlights on a few of the revenue line items.
Net revenue growth was 1% as reported or 7% FX-adjusted given currency headwinds and in line with our overall expectations.
Looking at the components of net revenue gross revenue increased 12% FX-adjusted but we saw 28% growth in rebates and incentives primarily due to the expected higher upfront incentive amortization from recently renewed contacts that we told you about.
And additionally the impact of local currency exchange rates was a 2 ppt headwind.
Acquisitions contributed a little bit more than 2 ppts to net revenue growth.
Looking quickly at the individual revenue line items on an FX-adjusted basis.
First of all domestic assessments grew 9% while worldwide GDV grew 13%.
This 4 ppt gap is primarily due to the impact of local currency somewhat offset by pricing.
Cross-border volume fees grew 9% while cross-border volume grew 17%.
Of the 8 ppt gap the majority is due to higher mix of intra-Europe activity as well as some local currency impact.
Transaction processing fees grew 12% primarily driven by the 13% growth in processed transactions.
Finally other revenues grew 29%.
While primarily driven this quarter by our PinPoint acquisition our advisor business and our safety and security products and services continued to contribute to the growth of other revenue.
Moving on to page seven here you can see total operating expenses after excluding the special item increased 9% in the quarter or 14% on an FX-adjusted basis.
Of this M&amp;A activities contributed 10 ppts to total FX-adjusted expense growth which is in line with what we have been expecting.
The remaining 4 ppts was due to organic growth.
We've modified the line at the bottom of our standard presentation chart to make it easier for you to compare the growth rates including and excluding M&amp;A activities.
As a reminder the only acquisitions that we call out here are the ones that we did in 2014 and 2015.
Most of our expense growth is in G&amp;A.
while the savings from our restructuring efforts essentially offset much of our reinvestment activities the remaining growth was primarily due to the continued increase in our transaction processing activities driving higher data processing expenses.
Data processing is also the line item in G&amp;A where we are beginning to see the impact of paying the new local Russian processor or NSPK for processing domestic transactions.
You can also see that most of our D&amp;A expense growth is related to acquisitions in particular the amortization of intangibles.
Turning to slide eight let's discuss what we have seen in July through the 21st.
Most of our business drivers are showing a higher growth rate compared to what we saw in the second quarter.
The numbers through July 21 are as follows.
Starting with processed volume we saw global growth of 13% up from the 11% in the second quarter.
In the U.S.
our processed volume grew 7% up two PPT from what we saw last quarter even after a continued 2 ppt headwind from lower gas prices.
And we saw an increase in both our credit and debit programs.
Processed volume outside the U.S.
grew 20% also up about 2 ppts from the second quarter with higher growth in every region.
Globally processed transaction growth was 14% up 1 ppt from what we saw in the second quarter with double-digit growth in all regions except the U.S.
which grew in the high single digits.
And with respect to cross-border our volumes grew at 19% globally up 2 ppts from our second quarter growth.
All regions were up in July except for the U.S.
which was essentially flat.
However we did see a continued uptick in volume from the U.S.
to Europe that began during the second quarter.
Looking ahead here is some commentary about full-year 2015.
Let me start by summarizing our thoughts about FX.
And remember the currency impacts us in two ways.
So first of all we have the impact of our functional currencies the euro and the Brazilian real relative to the U.S.
dollar and this is what we refer to as FX-adjusted.
While the real has continued to depreciate versus the U.S.
dollar since our last earnings call commentary the euro decline has somewhat stabilized.
Second we have the impact of local currency rates relative to their functional currencies and the impact of this is already included in our FX-adjusted guidance.
Our view for both of these factors hasn't changed since our last earnings call despite movements in several individual FX rates.
So let me summarize.
For the functional currency translation impact the first FX factor I just mentioned we continue to expect the net impact of the euro and the real would be a 6 ppts to 8 ppts headwind to our as-reported results for the full year depending on what line item we are talking about so revenue net income or EPS.
And this assumes the euro continues trading at the $1.10 level and the Brazilian real at the BRL 3.35 level for the rest of the year.
And for the local to functional currency impact so this is the second FX factor that I mentioned we continue to expect a net headwind in the 2 ppt range throughout the year both to revenue and the bottom line based on current rates.
Now let's move on to some of the individual P&amp;L line items.
And as you can see from our volume and transaction metrics our underlying business remains strong and little has changed in our 2015 outlook versus what we said back in April.
On an FX-adjusted basis we continue to expect high single-digit net revenue growth for 2015 including roughly two PPT from acquisitions.
And on an as-reported basis the net revenue growth rate will still likely be in the low single-digit range as a result of roughly 6 ppt FX headwind primarily from the euro functional translation and that's based on current rates.
Moving to rebates and incentives we continue to expect the full-year 2015 growth rate to be similar to the growth rate that we saw in Q1.
The higher growth rate that we saw in Q2 will continue into Q3 before coming down in Q4 and that's due to the expected timing of some deals.
We're looking at total operating expense.
We are now contemplating what investments we will need to make in China as the domestic market opens.
While these will occur over the next couple of years we will start investing in the next few months and we have not previously factored that into our thinking around 2015 operating expense.
So we are now projecting the growth rate for total operating expense for full year 2015 to be in the high-single digits on an FX-adjusted basis up just slightly from our earlier view.
Our full year continues to include a roughly 7 ppt impact from acquisitions and as-reported growth will now likely to be mid-single digit range after continuing to expect a roughly 4 ppt tailwind from the euro and the real translation.
We continue to project total EPS dilution will be about $0.11 to $0.13 for the full year 2015 from our recent acquisitions including APT which closed back in May.
And less than half of the expected dilution is due to the amortization of acquired intangibles.
You should now assume a full-year 2015 tax rate of about 27% due to the continued benefits we have seen so far this year.
So to summarize solid fundamentals continue to drive our underlying business in 2015 despite the mixed economic environment.
Our expectations for headwinds from FX have not changed from what we said back in April and we are still winning new business and managing our overall expenses prudently.
Finally let me move on to our long-term performance objectives.
First I know many of you continue to ask when we will be rolling our performance objectives forward.
We will provide you with our new long-term objectives at our Investor Day in September.
So for the 2013 to 2015 period our performance objectives remain unchanged from what I have said on our last earnings call.
Given our expectations for 2015 revenue growth we expect to deliver at the low end of our 11% to 14% net revenue CAGR.
We continue to expect at least 20% EPS CAGR for the three-year period due to the continued expense management as well as benefits from our lower tax rate and share repurchases.
And we remain committed to our annual operating margin target of at least 50%.
Remember these objectives are on a constant currency basis and exclude the M&amp;A activity that we just talked about as well as any new ones that might occur this year.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thank you Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question-and-answer period.
And in order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
John? Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from the line of Tien-Tsin Huang from JPMorgan.
Great.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask on the revenue I guess.
So year-to-date running 7% to 8%.
I think you said 7% was right in line with your forecast.
So I know a lot of moving pieces but just curious maybe you can remind us what's weighing on the revenue growth year-to-date from your longer-term objectives in the double-digits.
I'm just trying to parse out what the headwinds are that should ease longer term.
Thanks.
So Tien-Tsin good morning.
There really are a couple of factors in that when you look at the FX-adjusted revenue which is the 7% for the second quarter and by the way the factors were the same in the first quarter.
Two I want to call out.
One is the incentives that we are now running through our P&amp;L which is really related to a couple of very large agreements that we had announced earlier.
And the amortization that is running through our P&amp;L is no different than we assumed.
And of course this is the first year where you would be running that in so you're not going to have a lapping effect in that respect for the next year.
The second factor that is still with us in some fashion is the deconversion from the Chase portfolio.
So that is also going to end at the end of this year.
And Tien-Tsin remember that inside that 7% is the other 2 ppts of local currency impact of the currencies that are not what we call functional meaning everything outside the euro and the real.
Now who knows where that will go longer term but that's also something that we hadn't seen in the year or two earlier.
So we've got these three things going on.
We've got the front-ended loading of the incentives of some of these large deals.
We've got the whole aspect of this 2 ppts of foreign exchange translation outside the euro and the real that are running through.
The Chase portfolio is almost gone but it runs through as a lapping effect to work until the end of this year.
And that's three things we're dealing with.
That's why you see the underlying gross volume is where you would think it would be though the rebates and incentives combined with the 2 ppts in FX tend to pull things backwards.
That's what's going on.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Thank you and good morning.
I was wondering Ajay if you could comment on the Visa – potential acquisition of Visa Europe and what that would mean what that could mean for your European business.
The revenue yield at Visa Europe is very low-high single digits.
I'm just wondering if you could maybe give some thoughts on how your revenue yields compare and what you think having Visa Europe as a for-profit company would mean.
There are a lot of implications of what happens if and when Visa actually completes that activity.
And if they do there are implications on pricing and yield.
So the question you're getting at and there are implications of how long it will take for them to put the companies together.
We've done the Europay acquisition quite some years ago and integrating that into MasterCard did pose some amount of challenges in terms of the cultures of the two companies.
You've also got the technology to be brought together.
Remember that simple things like V.me and Visa Checkout are two different things and that goes into their credit and debit technologies and there's going to be a lot of stuff to be done.
But let's get past all that and assume all that gets done over a period of time.
Back to your yield question MasterCard Europe's yield is higher than the Visa Europe yield but it is lower than our MasterCard Global yield.
Now there are two or three caveats I'd like to put into your mind around that before you conclude that means our yields will go up if Visa were to be in Europe a more rational pricing competitor.
The first caveat is yields in Europe generally tend to be lower.
Why is that? That's because it's a heavier mix of debit other than maybe in the UK and Spain but most of continental Europe is heavier weighted to debit.
We also process both us and Visa fewer transactions as a percentage because of all the competition from the old legacy domestic processors particularly in debit across the European countries.
Now you know there are breakthroughs happening in that space to increase the ratio of transactions we're processing.
Today we are processing just a little under 40%.
Now that's higher than we used to but it's still only 40%.
So when you process less and there's more debit you get a naturally lower yield in the system.
The second little caveat which is an important one as well is that MasterCard Europe when I said our yield is higher than Visa Europe but lower than MasterCard as a whole MasterCard Europe includes Eastern Europe and Russia.
Visa Europe does not do that.
And so you've got to be a little careful about assuming the numbers across MasterCard Europe and Visa Europe.
You may be comparing chalk and cheese a little bit there.
And the third part is you know all the regulatory change that's happening in Europe with what's going on with the interchange and interchange doesn't directly impact network revenues.
We've shown that time over time in every region around the world.
But the fact is trying to go back to an issuer during a time that their own P&amp;L is being compressed by lower interchange dramatically lower interchange I think that's going to be a little more challenging for pricing.
So even today our pricing is higher than Visa Europe's and that's why our yield is higher.
They're gaining share even in that period of time.
I'm not quite sure that if they do get in they do buy it what their pricing logic would be.
If their pricing logic is to be more rational and raise it a little bit to come closer to us that may give us a little more flexibility.
But I'm going to wait and watch before I conclude anything.
Meanwhile for us it's business as usual in Europe.
They're pumping away growing share.
You've heard Martina talk about our volume and our trends in Europe.
We're actually trying our best to keep that business growing the way it should.
We still think it's a very attractive growth business for our company in the years to come.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Great thanks.
Ajay you talked a little bit about some of the co-brand renewals that you secured.
Can you talk a little bit about the outlook over the next several quarters both from the standpoint of what you've got in terms of the size of what is out there to renew and then also maybe what you see at your competitors that might be a chance to get some new business? Sure.
Look the co-brand business is becoming where everybody suddenly got focused on.
And it's always been a relatively competitive space.
And some parts of it have gotten more competitive others less so.
My general opinion has been most co-brands are decided relatively rationally.
There is a great discussion on pricing that's normally the starting point as you would expect.
But I do find that there is an intelligent conversation about the value you bring to the merchant and the issuer and the consumer of that co-brand in the process of being the network on that co-brand.
So if the merchant issuer feels or the bank issuer feels that this is going to be an opportunity for them to build a stronger closer relationship with some aspect of their consumer book you tend to benefit from that whether it be through analytics through things like our Advisors book or it be through safety and security or it be through loyalty and rewards.
All those tend to patch together.
And in fact just the pricing of clearing authorizing and settlement is literally just an entry point.
And a lot of what you're seeing us do in our acquisitions is to build out the capacity of the company's existing assets to connect into some of these edge of the network assets and become more than just what we used to be 10 years ago.
That's what we're trying to do.
And that impact will help us over time with co-brands not just in the U.S.
but also with proprietary books and also enable us to build more stable revenue streams even as competition keeps coming into different parts of our existing revenue stream.
That's a longer-term picture.
It's not three four quarters.
I'm really talking out three four five six years of how to think about the company for its future.
Specific deals in the U.S.
and elsewhere there are a ton of them that keep coming up.
Every quarter there are co-brands up.
There are some small ones some big ones.
We are playing for all of them.
And some of them continue to make sense to us and some of them are at a point of time when they don't make sense.
Then Martina and I go and hide in a room and run away from the numbers.
That's what we do.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom McCrohan from Sterne Agee (sic) [CLSA] (38:21).
Yes following up on the co-brand question – and I'm with CLSA not Sterne Agee.
When does a co-brand deal not make sense? If you can give us some thoughts around how you think about that.
When it no longer makes sense? I don't how to give you a specific item or a number or thinking.
But honestly I look at it from many different ways.
I look at the pricing and the yield for sure but I look at it in every aspect of the ecosystem issuer pricing acquirer pricing what you would get out of incremental volumes what you'd get out of selling other value-added services put the whole thing together.
That by the way is true not just of co-brands.
It's true of every deal we do.
And we don't approach co-brands very differently from any other deal we do.
We approach it with the same pricing discipline that we approach for any deal.
And that's been our rules now at least since I've been here.
I'm pretty certain that's how my predecessor used to look at them too.
Next question please? Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Jeffrey from SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Ajay I wonder if you can comment strategically on MasterCard's acquisition approach.
It sounds like you've gotten a lot more aggressive in areas that you called out in your comments in terms of trying to build out MasterCard's capabilities.
Should we anticipate this as ongoing? I'm thinking from the perspective not only of competitive differentiation but also the impact on any given period's financials as you look out into the future.
Is this from a capital allocation perspective a shift in MasterCard's overall strategy or is what we're seeing more opportunistic in nature right now? So Andrew from a strategic point of view I think what you're seeing us doing is that we got a lot more clarity over the last four or five years in terms of where we want to strategically play and these are the areas that Ajay has actually called out.
And then what we did is we went to work and actually looked at the areas.
We looked at them organically and what can we actually build.
We looked at whether we can partner with people and then we also looked at what kind of companies and skill sets are out there that we could potentially purchase.
And I think you see the culmination over the last 18 months of all of that work putting it together.
We're looking at these acquisitions always first strategically.
Do they fit with MasterCard? Will they expand our business? Will they be catering to the multiplier effect that Ajay was mentioning? That means not only putting their skill sets into our business but combining it with what we have and actually getting more out of it so we looked at all of this.
And then of course we looked at does it culturally make sense? Can the companies work together as well as does it make financially sense? All of those three criteria we really have not changed.
And when you look at our comments about capital deployment again we haven't changed those at all.
We said first we would be investing organically in the business.
Second we would be looking in these particular areas that are of strategic importance to us for acquisitions.
And lastly we are giving cash back to the shareholders.
So you should not attribute any change in terms of what we're doing.
As far as the future is concerned I hate to tell you that you should think about this dilution versus that dilution.
At the end of the day when I came here six years ago we started this work around that time.
And it happened that for the first three or four years we only found a couple of deals that fitted into what we were trying to do.
And at that time what we were trying to do was what led to DataCash and Access Prepaid.
Why was that? DataCash was like the e-commerce gateway.
Remember e-commerce six years ago was the thing that everybody was talking about growing into.
We wanted to make sure we had the right connectivity with acquirers and merchants by building that in.
We had our own gateway in Asia.
We folded this with that added the TNS gateway and now we've got a pretty decent sized global gateway business.
It has strengths and weaknesses.
It's not strong enough in the U.S.
It's stronger in Europe and Asia.
We're trying to build it out.
All that's going on.
Access Prepaid was because we were the minority players in prepaid and we wanted to grow in prepaid.
We saw it as a growth opportunity.
One of the things we saw in there was if you owned a prepaid program manager it connected valuable prepaid business and allowed you to grow your footprint.
And lo and behold five years later we have done very well in prepaid.
We are one of the leading brands if not the leading brand by the end of this year in prepaid and that's been helped partly by Access Prepaid.
As we moved along and we became clearer about where the future revenue streams would come from for continued growth that's when we said let's focus on these bundled services loyalty safety security processing to see the data connected to advisors and analytics.
And as we built our confidence we have kept looking at the deals.
We looked at a ton of deals and chucked them out the door because they didn't fit one of those three criteria that Martina talked about cultural fit connectivity to our existing products and services financial sense.
But then along came timing-wise a bunch of deals that just enabled us to do this a lot last year.
Now it's been five months this year we've done APT basically and one of the smaller ones but it just depends on the year.
So I'd be loath to give you a forward-looking idea about what this could look like.
I just don't think I could predict that to you.
But you should know that we will be acquisitive if it fits those three ideas and if we feel we can absorb it and that's what we're trying to do.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Smitti from Morgan Stanley.
Yes hi.
Good morning Ajay.
Good morning Martina.
My question for you guys I just was wondering if you guys could give us an update on your views on the legal and regulatory risks in Europe and in the U.S.
Earlier this month there was some news out from the EU.
And then over the past week there was some news out that the merchant litigation agreement in the U.S.
could be facing some issues too.
Look the news item on the merchant litigation in the U.S.
we've been aware of the article we are aware of the underlying issues.
If those allegations are true clearly these lawyers have displayed conduct that's pretty disappointing.
But to be clear they were not the principals only involved in that whole settlement.
There were lots of regulatory people involved.
There was great close involvement by the judge at that time.
I don't think that the behavior of two lawyers disrupts all that.
But you know what the court is going to decide that.
We're pretty confident the settlement will stand.
We'll see how it goes.
But we've been aware of this for a little while now.
The European part of it there are two or three things too.
One of is the actual announcement of the rules that are going into place and you know that those are happening.
The 20/30 will happen.
The functional versus legal separation of scheme and processing will happen.
The co-badging will happen and we're working with all that and we feel that we've got a good handle on all of those.
The statement of objections this covers two issues and we were aware of this for a while.
We've been engaged in a dialogue with the commission and we remain so in an effort to seek a constructive resolution.
So the first issue they are tackling is the idea of interregional transactions and the interchange rates that are charged on inbound consumer cross-border transactions in an EEA from outside cards coming in.
Now in our total numbers that's less than 1% of our total volume.
But it's an important issue and Visa Inc.
received a similar statement of objections from the EC I don't know three or four years ago three years ago and it's still sitting out there.
So I don't even know how long this will take to come through to any sensible resolution but it's a discussion that's happening; that should ECB be getting involved with the interchange rates that a Singaporean Indian Australian American bank makes when a consumer from there transacts in the EU with very different ticket sizes and implications than an European consumer transacting in the EU.
So we'll see where that goes.
That is the work that's going on there.
There's a second aspect of the statement of objections from the EC and that has to do with cross-border rather central acquiring rules for the European merchants.
And that's what I'm going to be talking to them about because – how will that be constructive? For example if you were to allow that to happen would all acquirers move to one low-cost location and from there trend price down to a lower level what would that mean for the banks and for the acquirers in other European countries? And so I don't know where it's going to go.
In the actual putting out of the rules a couple of these proposals got dropped because different European countries found them less than palatable.
So we'll see.
It's early days.
We'll see.
But we have in our disclosure as Martina is about to tell you because I can see she's dying to say something so I'm going to point it to Martina.
You've seen maybe numbers out there because in the SO you are seeing that the EC could be assessing fines associated with the SO and it's far too early for us to be able to speculate on any numbers because there are many different ways that you can actually calculate them.
And quite frankly if we were to reach a settlement with the EC we would not be expecting any fine to be imposed.
But there's really a third leg to the litigation in Europe which I mentioned just in my prepared remarks which is related to the UK merchant litigation.
And as you can see we have been settling with Tesco which is the largest merchant claimant in this litigation.
We have been settling with them.
We are pleased that that is behind us and so I think we are on our way addressing those issues there too.
Europe is an interesting marketplace for us but it's got really interesting complications in the way it's constructed.
You know that.
That's how we've been navigating there for years.
And as a company we have a degree of experience and expertise on the ground in Europe.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Maurer from Autonomous.
Hi.
Good morning.
You spent a lot of time in your opening remarks talking about your Gateway globally.
Visa made some very strong comments about the sustainability of PayPal's data disintermediation model and then backed it up with an investment in Stripe yesterday.
So I was wondering if you could comment similarly on how you view the long-term longevity of data disintermediation.
Craig there's a bunch of people that are playing in this space.
Gateways are just one way to get some access to the transaction.
PayPal is much more than a gateway.
And Stripe is a different – they're different.
People use gateway very loosely.
So in that whole space of digital transactions whether they be through m-commerce or e-commerce channel or in-app or browser-based or whether they be through physical contactless there are going to be a lot of players playing in this space to connect to the merchant to connect to the acquirer and to connect to the issuer and the digital vehicle that they use.
We're just keen to be a regular player playing with all of them.
We've had a view through many earnings calls and investor meetings.
But we're not going to pick winners and losers in this because this thing is evolving at a rate that's very fast and people who looked like winners three years four years ago are no longer relevant players there.
So rather than placing bets we're being relatively agnostic in all these spaces whether it be – you remember a little while back the conversation was secure element versus HCE.
And we said we're not going to pick we're going to do both and that's what we're doing.
It's the same with all of these things.
So my view generally is there's going to be a ton of players playing there.
We are actively involved with Stripe with many different aspects of what they do.
We will be doing other things with them.
You don't have to invest with them to be able to do good commercial deals with them although it may make strategic sense sometimes to invest.
And so I don't rule out any of these.
I just have a view: keep yourself open play with all of them find your company's best interests there and remain relevant in the value chain.
That's what we're trying to do.
PayPal is a client of ours as well not just – as you've heard from many others more than half of their float comes from the use of traditional cards of all our networks.
But in addition their corporate cards some of their small business cards is all with us as well.
So I do see the fact that they do with ACH get around the networks and in a way around the issuer's compensation in that sense.
That part I don't like.
If you remember that's why we put out the digital wallet operator rules which by the way the other networks have yet not clarified on.
And so we put that out for a reason because we wanted the rules to be clear.
And the rules have got to be that the brand of the issuer the brand of the network has to flow right through.
I believe they prefer a transaction that's not staged but it's flowed through.
That's what Apple has done; that's what a lot of the other digital giants are doing.
PayPal does it differently.
Yet PayPal is a client as well.
And I think the digital world is a complicated one where you've got to find your way to thread your needle through it.
That's what we're trying to do.
Is the two-stage wallet fee still in place? I'm sorry is the...
The two-stage wallet.
Yes it is.
Okay.
Okay.
Next question please? Our next question comes from the line of David Togut from Evercore.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Ajay could you update us on the SEPA debit processing pipeline? It's the same as usual meaning it moves at the glacial pace that I'm used to in Europe.
We're growing our SEPA transactions in the mid-teens.
It's been like that I would say for a few quarters now.
We are seeing SEPA transactions – SEPA-based transactions I don't want to call it SEPA transactions we are seeing domestic transactions in a number of the European countries actually in almost all of them.
Growing in Germany growing in Belgium.
The ramp up in Netherlands was announced some time ago.
We're seeing some more transactions in France and Spain and in Portugal and Italy.
All that's going on.
Nothing new on that phase.
And in fact David when you really read the European legislation that actually provides an opportunity for us to be expanding in SEPA processing more.
Given what the merchants are looking at at this point in time they will probably be accepting electronic payments more than they did.
Remember in Europe many many merchants especially the small merchants are not accepting that.
They have a way of telling the industry in terms of where they want to route the transactions.
And we believe that our processing business in Europe is very strong to be able to continue to take advantage of it.
But as Ajay said this is not a revolutionary change ever.
It's an evolutionary change and will help us over a long term to be increasing our business in Europe.
I think we've gone from what used to be high 20% of processed transactions several years ago to just under 40%.
So that gives you a sense of how much time it took us to get from point A to point B.
This was from the beginning of 2008 until now.
So about a six-year period.
Okay? Next question please? Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks and good morning.
Can we talk a little bit about pricing? I think you mentioned a benefit in the prepared remarks.
I didn't know if you could quantify it.
It sounds like it's less than 100 basis points since it wasn't quantified.
And just going forward we're seeing some degradation in the processed transactions fees per transaction processed and domestic assessments.
Is there a currency impact there or do you continue to expect some degradation there? Any plans for any pricing would be helpful.
Thanks.
Okay.
So first of all Chris on pricing this quarter we had really a very very small impact on pricing similar to last quarter.
Very very small.
And you should not expect for this year a lot of pricing to be coming through on a net basis.
In terms of what's going on transaction processing fee there are two factors in there.
One is mix in terms of where it comes from and in which region the fees are actually generated.
And yes you're right local currency is impacting that too.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
Can you talk about whether you anticipate any kind of impact from the changes to AmEx's anti-steering provisions? I haven't seen anything yet.
It's very early days.
And clearly there's got to be some impact in terms of how merchants perceive it but very early.
I don't know yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of comes from the line of James Schneider from Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Understanding it's still very early in the process with China can you give us any sense at this point about the restrictions you might expect to be placed upon you in terms of limitations on regional operating or other market share restrictions that might prevent you from getting to full unencumbered market share potential in China over time? And if you don't have any sense on that when do you think you might get more clarity? So to tell you to expect that you will not have restrictions and encumbrances would be to expect the wrong thing out of the way China tends to open up its businesses.
Based on many years of working with China including my years in my previous job in Asia they have always done this in a very measured thoughtful way that allows local industry to both benefit from the influx of foreign money and technology but also to actually protect itself in a way from that influx.
And it's been done very carefully over the years.
I see no reason why they wouldn't be as thoughtful in this which is a very important industry to them.
So we will have restrictions.
We will have encumbrances.
Already in the preliminary guidelines they've issued which I referred to when I was speaking in (56:45) more by the end of the year they've got ideas around what qualifies for domestic processing and what kind of data can and cannot leave their shores and how you would operate for clearing authorizing and settlement.
And they've got ideas but they're still at a stage where I don't know the detail of them.
And finally in all of these the devil is in the details.
We because of our distributed operating structure a little different from other networks may qualify for some aspects of our technology to be seen as more local than some of the others but I don't know yet.
It's all work in progress.
But rest assured there will be encumbrances and there will be some restrictions.
But it's an interesting marketplace still.
It will be a marketplace that will evolve over a few years.
Not only is it a question of getting processing set up on the ground in China which we hope to be able to do by the end of next year for sure technically but it's more than that.
It's what kind of acceptance do you have outside of what used to be the high traffic tourist destinations in the big cities which is where traditional foreign network acceptance was housed.
How do you get more issuers to be issuing these cards over the next period of time? So there's going to be a lot of work on issuing on acceptance in addition to the processing.
And part of what Martina talked about when she said we're going to start spending money this year is we see a two three-year pattern of investing there.
All we're trying to do is to start getting ahead of that curve and start putting ourselves in a better position.
So over the course of three four five years we feel good about where we are in China.
We feel good today.
Today as I said last time in my call about half of the cards issued they are with us but half are with our largest competitor.
It wasn't that way five years ago.
We've got a decent position.
But you know what? Compared to China UnionPay's own branded card we're all tiny and there's a huge opportunity in that system over a few years to come.
Thank you.
Operator I think we have time for one last question.
Certainly.
Your last question comes from the line of Bryan Keane from Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Thanks for fitting me in.
Martina maybe you could just talk a little bit about expenses and operating margin.
I think non-GAAP operating margin was 54.9%.
I guess I'm curious to know if that was in line with your expectations.
I know the Street was look for something higher and I know before you've talked a little bit about some of the mis-modeling by the Street.
So maybe can just address that.
Thanks.
Actually operating margins were completely in line with expectations that we had internally in fact a little bit better because we were able to reap more savings from our restructuring that we had started earlier this year than anticipated.
And also the M&amp;A activity that is on the OpEx line was actually right on with our expectations.
Okay I think that's it for Q&amp;A.
Ajay do you have some closing comments? Sure.
So thank you all for those questions and I'm going to leave you with a couple of quick closing thoughts.
I guess the business continues to perform well in what we find to be a challenging global economy.
The U.S.
and Europe as I said seem to be improving.
Asia and Latin America have a few market issues.
We are going ahead and executing on strategy.
We are investing in new technology.
We're investing in other services both organically and through acquisitions and we did have a couple of questions around that in the last half an hour.
We are clearly seeing the benefits of these acquisitions in our business engagements.
We continue to expect to have increasing opportunities to bundle that capability with our existing products and services.
And as Martina mentioned we're managing our organic expense growth to fund those integrations.
I hope many of you will come along to attend our Investor Day in September in New York if nothing else to get a selfie and check that your transaction goes through.
But you will also have the chance to hear more about strategic focus areas and hopefully experience some of these innovative products and services a couple of which got mentioned on today's call.
Mostly we appreciate your continued support of our company and all of us and thank you so much for joining us today.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Chris and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MasterCard third quarter earnings call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question and answer session.
Thank you.
Barbara Gasper Head of Investor Relations you may begin your conference Thank you Chris.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for a discussion about our third quarter 2015 financial results.
With me on the call today are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity get into the queue for the Q&amp;A session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
Even if you think you have already dialed into the queue you will need to register again following our prepared comments.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website mastercard.com.
These documents include a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their GAAP equivalents and have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one month.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earnings release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Ajay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
With the backdrop of this continuing uncertainty in the global economy we're actually quite pleased with our results this quarter.
After adjusting for currency we reported net revenue growth of 8% in line with what we thought we would get and an EPS growth of 11%.
And this excludes the impact of a special item and Martina will touch on that later.
So now let's take a quick look at what's going on in the global economy.
And it's been challenged in recent months and while the U.S.
recovery remains among the most solid – job gains have steadily lowered the unemployment rate to just over 5% – but job and wage growth are starting to slow.
Consumer confidence is only moderately up and as you know given yesterday's announcement uncertainty about rising interest rates remain.
So when moving beyond the U.S.
the economic picture is more mixed.
Global growth is clearly slowing particularly in smaller emerging markets and a sharper-than-expected slowdown in China is affecting many other economies.
Exporters to China and those with close trade links – Russia Brazil for example – would probably will be the most impacted adding to the downward pressure on oil and commodity prices.
In Asia India is less dependent on global demand and should continue to grow.
But in Australia consumer and business sentiment has weakened again as their economic growth has slowed for what is now the fifth consecutive quarter.
Growth in Europe on the other hand is improving but not as fast as previously expected and the unemployment rate continues a gradual decline.
The U.K.
remains steady.
Economic growth is expected to continue through the rest of this year and into next year.
And Germany's also showing some signs of strengthening.
In Latin America Brazil continues to be in a recession.
Economic conditions continue to worsen in Venezuela.
The lone bright spot there appears to be Mexico where the economic recovery continues led by relatively strong consumer spending and the lowest levels of inflation in almost 50 years.
So when you put all this together what we're really talking about is some period of economic uncertainty fueled by the slowdown in China combined with continued lower oil and commodity prices as well as this continuing uncertainty of rising interest rates in the U.S.
And so overall we remain cautious about the outlook for the global economy.
Now in saying (4:33) all of this our business continues to grow; our fundamentals remain strong.
We're seeing double-digit volume and transaction growth across most of our markets as a result of our efforts to drive the shift from cash to electronic payments but also as well as our continued business growth.
So before we go to our business highlights I want to say a few words about the opening of the Chinese domestic market.
Since the final Chinese regulations have not yet been released we have no new insights to add beyond what we all told you at our recent Investor Day last month.
We continue to execute against our plans to be technically ready to process domestic Chinese transactions by the end of 2016 and we're working on expanding issuance and acceptance in that market while we wait for clarity on the regulations.
So now results of (5:24) our recent business activity.
You've already heard a great deal from us at Investor Day.
You've had an opportunity to see firsthand a number of the product and service innovations we are rolling out.
So let me just mention a couple of items very briefly.
First we continue to grow in the co-brand space.
In the United States we're pleased to be able to confirm our agreement with JetBlue to launch a new co-brand credit card and convert their existing credit card portfolio.
BarclayCard will be the issuing bank.
We also won several other co-brand deals around the world including CIDF – that's the largest travel company in China – Coles the largest supermarket chain in Australia and of course one of the co-brands for Aeroflot.
Aeroflot has a number of co-brands; we've won one of those.
They're the largest Russian airline as you probably know.
We've also signed a strategic partnership with Citi for an affluent co-brand with a large global airline based in the Middle East.
Moving beyond specific customer agreements I'd like to talk a few minutes to you about some of the developments going on in our space in the payments space in particular.
And let's start with EMV in the United States.
And as you know the liability shift went into effect October 1.
We're kind of pleased with the progress we are seeing thus far.
We now expect 60% of cards at approximately 40% of terminals in the United States to be chip-capable by the end of this year.
By the way this is true for us but it's true for the industry as a whole.
We expect almost all cards in the market to be upgraded to chip by the end of 2017 and we've already seen tens of millions of chip transactions.
By the way another little side benefit of EMV is that it'll likely give a boost to the adoption of contactless or NFC payments because the latest generation of EMV-enabled terminals also contain contactless capabilities.
And that kind of leads me to the next topic I'd like to talk about which is to give you a quick update on the progress we have made in the digital space.
And over the past year or so you've heard us make several announcements related to MasterPass.
Just to put it together for you we're now live in 24 markets we're accepted at over 250 000 merchants a list which recently added Burger King and Firehouse Subs.
In addition we recently announced MasterPass will be fully tokenized using our MDES platform – that's M-D-E-S – starting with the United States in 2016.
And that'll give consumers EMV-level security and the ability to shop more securely online or in-app from any device across all card types.
So let me give you an example of a breakthrough which can really drive the growth of MasterPass.
And despite the challenges going on recently in the Russian market we're working hard to extend our capabilities there.
As I recently – we just had a partnership announced with Yandex.Money one of the largest payment service providers in Russia that extends the use of MasterPass to their 22 million customers.
And talking about scale the State Bank of India which is the largest bank in that country – it's got more than 15 000-plus branches – have also launched their mobile wallet solution with the help of MasterCard.
And that solution enables consumers to load money perform a P2P transfer pay bills things that the average consumer in India is really keen to get with.
And the State Bank of India is the right partner for that.
And as you know we've been putting a lot of emphasis on tokenizing transactions using MDES.
And most recently you've heard about Android Pay and Samsung Pay who've been added to the list of providers leveraging that service.
And as we said before we were the first network to extend support for private-label cards.
In fact Kohl's and JCPenney have now gone live with that service.
In addition to small-business cards we were also the first network to announce tokenization for all commercial cards.
And all that means is that all of our card products and channels can soon be tokenized so it becomes ubiquitous for us.
We also announced the launch of our Digital Enablement Express Program which basically expedites the process of digitizing and tokenizing accounts using MDES.
Any financial institution can gain immediate access to all our latest digital payment services while our partners – that's digital wallet providers device manufacturers other digital payment providers – they can all have a simple onboarding process to engage with all these participating banks.
Google Samsung Capital One Fifth Third Bank KeyBank are among the first companies to announce their participation in the Express program.
Now the Internet of Things something everybody's been talking about continues the convergence of the physical and digital worlds that began in mobile devices.
And that new generation of connected devices smartwatches wearables this will collect and transmit vast amounts of data and the idea is to be able to use that to provide new insights new services.
To give you an example data from a smartphone indicating that a consumer is in a retailer's store location could trigger a discount offer for using their credit card.
Now that may sound futuristic but to help fulfill that vision we've actually just launched a new digital enablement program that'll turn any accessory or wearable into a payment-enabled device.
And that gives consumers the ability to shop using the thing that is most convenient to them with the highest level of security available.
That program will launch with the support of several marquee partners across multiple industries.
Prototypes from a fashion designer Adam Selman automaker General Motors smartband developer Nymi and fashion brand Ringly were all on display using our technology at Money20/20 just earlier this week.
And we worked with NXP and Qualcomm to develop the technology and Capital One is actually the first issuer to embrace it.
In addition Capital One has also announced the availability of contactless mobile payment capability to its wallet app and actually becomes the first issuer in the United States to do so using our cloud-based payments technology.
And these announcements kind of endorse how we're trying to advance our digital strategy eliminate the boundaries of how consumers pay by delivering a secure digital payment experience to virtually anything.
Every device can be a device of commerce; that's the idea.
So mobility cloud-based payments the Internet of Things and Big Data are all coming together.
EMV contactless and our MDES-enabled secure transactions across all channels all devices.
And as new players enter the digital payments landscape we continue to see our technology as the foundation for new innovative payment services.
And with that I will turn the call over to Martina to update on our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
So let me begin on page 3 of our slide deck where you see the difference between non-GAAP reported and FX-adjusted growth rates for this quarter.
The differential continues to be primarily driven by the euro/U.S.
dollar exchange rate.
Now these figures also exclude the impact of a special item of $70 million on a pre-tax basis – $79 million on a pre-tax basis taken this quarter related to the termination of our U.S.
employee pension plan.
I'd like to point out a few items here and then I'll talk about the major P&amp;L line items in subsequent slides.
First EPS growth was 5% or 11% after adjusting for currency.
Continued revenue momentum good cost control executing on our tax strategies and repurchasing shares all contributed to that performance.
And as expected acquisitions that we made in 2014 and 2015 drove $0.03 of EPS dilution in the quarter.
Second the tax rate was 28.2% in the quarter primarily due to our continued focus on better aligning our tax structure with our business footprint.
Third share repurchases contributed $0.02 per share to our third quarter results.
As of October 22 we have $1.2 billion remaining under our current authorization.
And lastly cash flow from operations was $1.3 billion and we ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of about $5.1 billion.
So let me turn to page 4 and here you can see the operational metrics for the second quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 13% on a local-currency basis and that's pretty much the same as the last quarter.
Overall our U.S.
dollar GDV grew 8% made up of credit and debit growth of 9% and 7% respectively.
Total U.S.
GDV was up 1 ppt versus last quarter with stronger growth in our consumer credit programs offset by slightly lower growth in our debit programs primarily due to lapping some debit wins and a continued 2 ppt headwind from lower gas prices.
Outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 16% on a local-currency basis.
That's again same as in the last quarter with mid to high teens growth in each region.
Cross-border volume grew 16% on a local-currency basis slightly lower than the 17% we saw in the second quarter primarily driven by Europe.
Turning to page 5 here you can see global processed transaction growth slowed slightly to 12% from the 13% we saw in the second quarter primarily driven by fewer PIN POS transactions in the U.S.
We continued to see double-digit growth in all other regions.
And globally the numbers of cards grew 8% with 2.2 billion MasterCard and Maestro branded cards issued.
Now let's turn to page 6 for highlights on a few of the revenue line items.
Net revenue growth was 2% as reported or 8% FX adjusted given currency headwinds.
Additionally the impact of local currency exchange rates was slightly higher than we expected at about 3 ppt primarily driven by the Russian ruble to the euro and the Canadian dollar to the U.S.
dollar exchange rates.
After eliminating all impacts of currency our underlying net revenue growth was 11%.
And acquisitions contributed about 1 ppt to that net revenue growth.
Looking quickly at the individual revenue line items on an FX-adjusted basis the domestic assessments grew 9% while worldwide GDV grew 13%.
This 4 ppt gap is primarily due to the impact of local currency somewhat offset by pricing.
Cross-border volume fees grew 11% while cross-border volume grew 16%.
Of the 5 ppt gap the majority is due to a higher mix of intra-Europe activity some local-currency impact as well as lower inbound U.S.
cross-border volume.
Transaction processing fees grew 16% primarily driven by the 12% growth in processed transaction and some pricing.
Finally other revenues grew 15% driven primarily this quarter by our safety and security products and the APT acquisition.
Moving on to page 7 here you can see that total operating expenses after excluding the special item increased 1% in the quarter or 5% on an FX-adjusted basis.
Of this M&amp;A activities contributed almost 4 ppt to total FX-adjusted expense growth and you can see the impact acquisitions had to the individual expense categories in the lower box there on the chart.
After excluding the special item the growth in G&amp;A of 3% or 6% on an FX-adjusted basis is mostly due to the impact of acquisitions.
And finally most of the increase in D&amp;A continues to be also related to acquisitions.
Turning to slide 8 let's discuss what we have seen in October through the 21st.
Our business drivers are similar or just a bit lower compared to the third quarter so the numbers through October 21 are as follows: Starting with processed volume we saw global growth of 12% which is unchanged from the third quarter.
In the U.S.
our processed volume grew 7%.
That is also unchanged from what we saw in the last quarter.
Processed volume outside the U.S.
grew 17%.
That's about 1 ppt lower than the third quarter with similar growth in Europe and slightly lower growth in the other regions.
Globally processed transaction growth was 11% down 1 ppt from what we saw in the third quarter with double-digit growth in all regions except the U.S.
which grew in the low single digits.
This slower U.S.
growth was driven by routing decisions of PIN debit transactions.
With respect to cross-border our volume grew 14% globally 2 ppt lower than our third quarter growth with slower growth in all regions except the U.S.
Our APMEA region saw the largest slowdown driven by the timing of holidays in the Middle East versus last year.
Moving on our volume and transactions metrics as you can see show that our underlying business remains strong.
When looking at our full-year 2015 outlook it's mostly unchanged from my comments last month at our Investor Day.
I'll just quickly call out a few items that have changed very slightly or need some clarification.
First similar to what we saw in Q3 we now expect a slightly higher local currency headwind of about 3 ppt in Q4 which primarily impacts net revenue.
And when you combine this with the impact from FX translation the total expected impact of currency on our results continues to be a 8 to 10 ppt headwind for fiscal year 2015 depending whether we're talking about revenue or net income.
Turning to rebates and incentives we continue to expect the full-year 2015 growth rate to be similar to the growth rate we saw in Q1.
However the individual quarterly impact has changed slightly due to the timing of some deals shifting from Q3 into Q4.
And when looking at expenses we haven't changed our expectations for total operating expense growth but we have had several questions on this topic as some of you work on your models.
So when I spoke previously about expecting mid-single digit growth for full year 2015 on a quote "as-reported basis" so that excludes any of the special items taken this year but it does not exclude the impact of last year's Q4 severance charge as that was not a special item.
Finally let me just make a quick comment on our 2016 to 2018 performance objective that we announced at Investor Day last month.
Based on some conversation that we've had I'd like to clarify a couple of points around how we look at our long-term performance objective to help you with your modeling.
So first our objective to present a compound growth rate over a three-year period.
So as you know actual performance could be above or below our stated three-year objective at any given year.
Factors that could impact any individual year include things like the economic environment the impact of local FX that we don't adjust for or market share changes.
In fact we expect that we will likely see 2015 come in lower than the range of our 2013 to 2015 objective based on the first two factors I just mentioned even though we expect to meet our three-year objective.
Second I said at Investor Day that our 2016 tax rate would be about 29% higher than our expected 2015 rate since we don't expect the discrete and one-time items that already have or could occur this year will repeat in 2016.
Remember that our practice has been to adjust for one-time tax items in the base year from which the three-year EPS CAGR is calculated.
We will be providing you with a pro forma fiscal year 2015 EPS figure on our year-end earnings call based on a normalized 2015 tax rate.
And as you begin to model out future years' performance you need to factor something about this into your thinking until we have the final numbers to provide you at the end of January.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thanks Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question and answer period.
And in order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional questions.
Chris? Thank you.
And the first question is from Don Fandetti with Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Ajay I was wondering if you could just given the volatility of the economics around the world and a little bit of a dip in cross-border this quarter although last year you had a similar sort of holiday seasonal dip is there any concern structurally about cross-border? Or do you feel like it's likely to remain on track despite what's going on? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think it's more likely remain on track despite what's going on.
Just the reality is when the dollar's strong you're going to get some lower inflow into the U.S.
of tourism.
We have seen more Americans travel overseas over the last six seven months and that does show up in some of our results in terms acquired volume in countries overseas.
The Europeans continue to be traveling but they travel more in Europe than outside than two three years ago.
There's kind of these trends moving around.
Fewer Chinese are traveling overseas no doubt and that's all part of it the way the Chinese economy is.
You'll see ins and outs.
I don't think I can give you a clear prediction of where it could go.
But I don't see any structural change if that's what your question was.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
(25:44) what do you think from a network perspective? And are you just waiting to see if any of your issuing banks decide to pursue some type of Chase Net type approach? Or do you feel like that's something you might push the issuers to kind of maintain market share? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you got to remember that Chase Net is a very unique piece for Chase which has a certain size of an acquiring business and a issuing business.
And they tend to be similar size in terms of market share and they own the acquiring business.
There aren't a lot of other banks around the world that do that directly.
It doesn't mean there isn't potential to be discussed with every one of them.
And a lot of them were interested when the first set of announcements came out.
There is lower interest over time because people are still trying to figure out what the benefits and the pluses and minuses – the puts and takes out on it.
I don't think there's clarity yet but the conversations continue in all kinds of countries.
We've done something similar in a couple of countries overseas but it just depends on the construct of a country.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
The next question is from Bryan Keane with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Just hoping to get some comments on USAA's Bank – I guess their flip over to Visa.
I guess they were talking about the benefits including the elimination of foreign transaction fees.
But just trying to get a sense of what exactly happened in your guys' eyes there.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So USAA is a longtime client of ours and we actually think they're a very good client.
So it's pretty sad for us that – inside the company we feel bad about the fact that we no longer have them as our client over the course of the next year.
We still are going to be doing work with them on services on rewards and debit processing.
And in that form we'll remain in contact with them.
The fact is that we tried our best to pursue that business but at a point we lost out.
And that's just the way it is.
Yeah and one thing I just want to jump in.
We knew this unfortunate loss before we actually had our Investor Day so for all of those who had asked Barbara over the last few days we had actually factored that already into our long-term guidance.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah what kind of impact will it have on the numbers in 2016 or 2017 Martina? Well as you know Bryan we are not calling out individual years.
We factored it in for a three-year period and we feel like that we can digest that given the kind of targets that we put out there.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay super.
Thanks.
The next question is from Glenn Greene with Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Martina maybe you could go back through the expense growth guidance.
Looked like the margins in this quarter were way above our expectations and I suspect generally most people.
Could you clarify what you're sort of suggesting or was implied for the fourth quarter expense guidance as it relates to that mid-single digit reported expense growth? Yeah I mean guys you have now three quarters of actuals.
And so for the full year what you're going have to do from an as-reported basis which is excluding the special item actually excluding that $79 million - – and last quarter's litigation.
Yeah and last quarter's litigation reserve that we took.
So exclude those but then for the whole year you should be lining up the fourth quarter so that you're getting into mid-single digit growth for the full year of 2015.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Weren't you suggesting an adjustment from last year too though? What did you say? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Weren't you suggesting there's an adjustment to make from last year's numbers as well? No no.
What I was suggesting you're not making adjustment for the 2014 numbers.
You might remember that in Q4 we took a severance charge of around $87 million last year.
That was not a special item.
So do not pull that out.
You need to put that and keep that into the base expenses when you do the calculation of mid-single digit growth.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Tien-Tsin Huang with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hey great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I just wanted to ask a follow-up on USAA.
Just trying to – been thinking about it a little bit.
Just trying to better understand how you balance pricing discipline which I think was mentioned in a few articles with the indirect cost of losing economies of scale given that it's such a big client.
I know Visa's obviously bigger.
And they're going to get even bigger with this win and Costco.
So just trying to understand those dynamics if that makes sense.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah sure Tien-Tsin.
Actually in terms of economies of scale this is not a material enough dimension to move when you've got tens of billions of transactions and so many clients.
Look we win business and we lose some business.
It's the nature of our business.
When it's very large it can make an impact to the way we think but remember that Chase was a very large movement away and we still navigated our way through the years delivering on our three-year commitment.
USAA is nowhere near the size of Chase.
You all know that.
And so it's well factored into our thinking but it's not a scale versus pricing issue.
At the end of the day it's not just pricing.
There's a lot of factors that go into winning and losing deals.
Pricing is one of them.
Pricing's always a first conversation in a B2B business.
And we kind of felt at some point in time this was a business we couldn't win and we had to get away from it.
It's very sad because as I said good client and somebody we had for 30 years.
But we're going to still keep doing business with them in portions of processing with rewards and the like.
Got it.
Appreciate that.
Thanks.
The next question is from Jason Kupferberg with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
So just wanted to ask a little bit about the commercial business.
We've been doing a lot more work on that.
Seems like you guys have a really good position in the virtual card space specifically within commercial.
Can you talk about some of the growth rates you're seeing here maybe which verticals are dropping some of the strength in virtual specifically and the commercial business more broadly? And then just a quick one for Martina on buyback authorization.
Any reason we haven't seen a refresh on that now that you're down closer to $1 billion left? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Martina you want to cover the buyback first? Look I mean Jason we have a particular cadence in terms of – established although not many years in terms of the buyback authorizations and I don't think we ever had a reauthorization when we were still over the $1 billion mark.
So that's a decision that will be taken at some point in time.
But at this point in time we still have plenty of opportunity and room left on the current program.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Jason back to the commercial cards I think they continue to be area of growth.
We just spent a little time as you remember at Investor Day on the topic.
And we recently signed a deal with Barclays in the U.K.
We're continuing to see sort of strong adoption of our product Smart Data which is our reporting and reconciliation tool as well as InControl which is the virtual card question you were getting at.
What I'm also seeing is some increasing interest beyond the typical bank card issuers and you see technology providers who kind of embed commercial payment solutions either into their software or their platforms and as well as some payment aggregators in verticals like insurance and healthcare.
All-in-all this global business remains robust.
We are looking at low double digit volume growth over the past several quarters and there's no doubt that virtual cards are a key part of that growth area.
As you know InControl when we bought Orbiscom years ago InControl came with some IP protection around the virtual card space and it's embedded into what we're doing in the commercial space.
Thank you.
The next question is from Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I just want to go back to some comments of yours Ajay on the Chase Net deal and how – you guys have a similar product and I was just wondering specific to the United States I mean have there been a steady stream of discussions with some of the banks that are able to do it? And what's their interest level? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There've been discussions over time.
I wouldn't call it a steady stream.
It's kind of some banks pursue it for a period of time; others come in and out of the discussion.
I'd say every once in a while there are conversations on it with different banks here.
Just – it's not – there's nobody else who's got that same position.
But yes it's something that we're doing overseas as I said in some countries and there's always the opportunity to do it in the U.S.
as well if the stars and the moon align.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> One quick follow-up on EMV.
You guys mentioned a pretty big number of EMV-capable terminals but how many are actually using it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So 40% of them are capable is what I said and I actually don't have a specific number off the top of my head as to how many are using it but we've seen tens of millions of EMV transactions already between this last few weeks.
So it's picking up.
I'm quite hopeful that the way the Payments Security Task Force that is set up between the industry and merchants some time ago.
That Payments Security Task Force had some assumptions of how cards would get replaced and how terminals would get upgraded and while the end of 2017 is when all the cards get replaced it's actually not a linear line to there.
It's pretty high already at 60-odd percent by the end of this year and I think by end of next year it's mostly done with a few left in 2017.
It's a similar trend for terminals.
But remember smaller merchants will take longer because they've got to work through the ISO network and there's a whole game out there to be played.
But it's – over the next couple of years it should be quite well embedded.
Which by the way is much faster than we've seen in any other country around the world.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Chris Brendler with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Another question on Chase Pay and MasterPass.
Can you just talk about your strategy as it stands today for merchant adoption on the online wallet side? (36:21) Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so you're talking about the recent announcement at Money20/20 when Chase Pay talked about linking up with MCX right? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Well that's (36:34) Chris if you have a headset on or something you're cutting out.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Chris? Chris we can't hear you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Better? Much better.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
(36:53) two-part question.
One is the (36:55) in I guess primarily...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Chris sorry...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> ...in the U.S.
for MasterPass in the online space and trying to compete with PayPal and all the other competitors that are targeting that space.
It just doesn't seem like we've seen a lot of traction.
You've got some big-name merchants but I just don't understand exactly why merchants aren't eager to adopt something that would help consumers check out.
And the second part of the question is when it comes to MCX just any current thoughts on the competitive threat there? Do you expect it to be included in MCX at some point? Do you expect to also include your two-stage wallet fee as part of any arrangement with MCX? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So the first part the part about adoption.
Building acceptance is a relatively long marathon and we've kind of all forgotten that because we've built it into the physical space over a period of time with cards and as cards became more or more ubiquitous acceptance tends to grow faster.
But we know what it's like to build acceptance in emerging markets for example where the infrastructure may not be as strong or where the number of cards in people's pockets may be lower.
It's a little bit of a chicken-and-egg.
Merchants begin to accept electronic payments when there's enough pull from consumers for that.
Consumers also tend to pick up electronic payments when there's enough acceptance for them and this symbiotic thing takes a little time to pick up and roll on a mountainside – a bit like a snowball rolling downhill.
Think of it that way.
And it's pretty much the same here.
PayPal's been around for a long time.
They've done a very good job of building their acceptance.
We've only started a little while ago and I think as you make progress on building acceptance on this you get chunks of merchants at some times and other times it's a one-by-one kind of thing.
One of the things we had learned is that it's really important to build acceptance for this in the day-to-day merchant usage category because that will encourage consumers to use their MasterPass wallet or their bank wallet more often.
And the moment you do that the merchant gets reinforced because this is a good thing to connect up with and that's what we're trying to do.
So you'll see us make a lot of effort on this as you'll see the whole industry making efforts over the last year or so.
You'll see us all doing this for the next couple of years.
And don't judge MasterPass or the digital payment system as a whole by a sprint.
Judge it as a marathon.
Otherwise by that logic none of the current mobile payment or digital payment systems have reached any scale.
Don't do that because I think it's a cumulative effect over a period of time.
That's the way I'd look at it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And on MCX? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So I think MCX is interesting.
I haven't changed my opinion about the – my previous view.
I haven't yet seen anything new roll out from them.
I consider them to all be very large and useful merchants with whom we have many relationships.
And so we're kind of working with all of them.
And we'll see.
We'll see when they launch something which – and what the consumer experience is.
Finally in digital payments or mobile-based payments a lot of this is going to be about the consumer experience because if it's going to be clunky then what problem are you trying to solve with that technology that the consumer's feeling today with a card? You're not solving for their convenience and for the ease of use.
And so it's all about the consumer experience in addition to all the other elements of the ecosystem.
So I'm waiting.
I'm working with them.
We meet them.
We talk to them.
We'll see.
The staged wallet fee is very much something that's a principal policy in our company.
We believe that if you were to take funding sources from different sources and not provide clarity to the merchant the consumer and the issuing institution at the end of what funding source was used for what purchase you're kind of mixing up a lot of things.
You're mixing up a lot of the issues in the marketplace including how you provide customer service and the value of different payment systems both for the merchant and the consumer and the issuing bank.
So we've kind of got a policy around that and we're sticking to that policy.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
The next question is from Smitti with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thank you.
Just wanted to follow up on the debit business.
I'm just wondering if you could give more details in terms of what happened to the PIN debit business in the past quarter and if those same factors will continue in the coming quarters.
And while we're on the topic of debit I was just wondering too if you could share with us your thoughts on what you potentially see in terms of the competitive dynamics in the signature debit market given that one of the largest acquirers will be entering that market next year.
So first of all on the first question Smitti look the PIN POS business is a tough business right? It's a very competitive business.
We've been explaining to you that we are extremely price conscious about that and that every month we are making sure that we get the right kind of transactions and the right number of transactions coming in into our network.
But things move right? Competitively they move.
Some cards get added other PIN options so that moves then in terms of what you see on all your network.
And so every month we're basically working it off and this month or this quarter you saw a little bit of a stepdown.
You also saw that in October.
I think over the next three four months we'll be regaining some of that as we're working through that competitive environment.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then the signature debit? Can you repeat your question on signature debit and what you're trying to get after there? Yeah so signature debit right now it's just you guys and Visa right? And First Data has talked about entering that market next year.
I was just wondering if we could get your thoughts in terms of how you see that market developing.
Look Smitti we'll see.
I mean obviously in a number of countries around the world you're not having just one or two choices right? You have a number of choices including local providers and we'll see what happens in the United States.
But at this point in time it's a little too early to pontificate about how this could happen and how this would be impacting the business.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
In the other revenue line you called out Martina safety and security solutions and I'm wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit on that in terms of being able to monetize or commercialize tokenization and encryption offerings or what specifically is in there? And can that be a driver of revenue growth at the margin looking out over the next several years? Look safety and security you can't just look at this in terms of what we're doing on the tokenization or on the MDES piece.
Safety and security is a much broader kind of umbrella.
And we actually pulled all of our safety and security product offering together a couple of years ago under one leadership.
And what is really what we're after is what are kind of products and services can we offer that keeps the consumer safe that keeps the merchant safe and that keeps the financial institutions and the processor safe in the space? So you have a number of players in the industry that are having the same kind of thinking in terms of keeping everybody safe.
We have a ton of unbelievably interesting products that we have built on a very good base over the last couple of years.
I'll give you one example.
So for instance the product that we call SafetyNet – and some of you saw that of course at our Investor Day.
Right? On SafetyNet we basically have in the network algorithms that allow us to detect if particular cards or portfolios have been penetrated in such a way that there are red flags coming up and we have to make sure that the financial institutions or the related party actually knows how to deal with that.
And we do that within nanoseconds right? Those kind of products which have been rolled out worldwide – SafetyNet has been now rolled out worldwide – we can absolutely charge for.
And that is some of the things that – the charges that people will agree to – they have to agree to if they want to utilize this product.
And those are the kind of revenues that you see coming in here.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So you had a second part of your question which was about tokenization and all that mixed up inside that.
And the safety/security business to me is about prevention detection and finally enhancing the experience of the consumer and the merchant and the issuing institution.
And we're actually building a strategic path process in it over the last couple of years not just selling product.
And you're seeing the result of some of that beginning to show up in our revenue lines.
I'm quite hopeful that safety and security will be a good way for us to grow.
We are a natural provider of some of these thinkings for those people in the ecosystem.
And it's necessarily a part of what we do.
For a consumer we've got ID theft solutions to we've got Authorization IQ solutions for merchants to issuing solutions to using data to all that.
And we've got new technology stuff coming in where the tokenization comes but also "selfie pay" and biometrics and heartbeat monitors with Nymi.
And we've launched that with TD Bank in Canada.
This is the whole series of things in this space.
I don't think tokenization itself should be counted as a revenue stream per se.
Tokenization is probably like table stakes; we don't charge for EMV.
A chip manufacturer may be charging some money to provide the chip.
We don't charge them extra.
That's table stakes in digital.
So that's not what I'm trying to do with tokenization.
Kind of make it safer most secure EMV type security in digital for the future of payments that are going to grow digital.
But there's a lot of other places in safety and security where you can make good money and good revenue for providing a service that people can opt into and use.
That's what we're trying to do.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
The next question is from Jim Schneider with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Jim Schneider of Goldman Sachs your line is open.
Jim are you on mute? And we'll move on to the next question from Darrin Peller with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Look I wanted to ask about how you think your positioning might be in a post-Visa/Visa Europe environment if they were to consolidate.
We've heard some opinions that it could be a benefit for you guys given that obviously pricing can become more rational.
And maybe you could touch on that as well as maybe market share.
Just given that right now obviously Visa Europe's owned by the banks; some of that loyalty may break apart.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There's a lot of questions back and forth on Visa and Visa Europe.
I think we've answered them a few times now but I'll go over a couple of parts for you.
And the first one is that whatever price and whenever the deal happens there is going be some period of time during which the integration of these businesses from a technology culture operation point of view will take some energy effort and dedication.
And we've seen that in our prior transactions in MasterCard even before I joined.
Not just at the IPO but even before the IPO with the purchase of Europay.
And there is a fair amount of work and challenge that needs to go into it.
That'll happen.
When that's done over a period of some years there's no doubt that one of the things that we do use today to go talk to global banks or global merchants – and recognize there aren't too many global banks left but there are global merchants – the ability to offer a unified proposition.
That one which was unique to us in some ways will no longer be unique to us.
And that'll change the competitive landscape in some ways when this integration is completely done.
In the meanwhile there'll be lots of moving around and lots of opportunities.
And you yourself raised some of those around maybe it's pricing maybe it's deal terms and all those could be interesting ideas for us to explore.
We're going to try.
And as you can imagine we've got people who have been thinking about this for a while.
I'm pretty certain that as Visa is going through their thinking they've got people thinking about how to prevent that from happening and that's the usual game in B2B.
It'll be a lot of fun.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just my quick follow-up is on the regulatory changes in Europe also that's something that's been presented as an opportunity and obviously an impact.
Have you quantified any of that? It's obviously in your guidance already but have you really counted on any market share gains on the local networks into your guidance? And then thanks a lot guys.
So the only thing that we comprehended in our long-term guidance is what we have been doing over the last many years.
As you know we've been gaining market share profitably in Europe over many many years and you know that our business is in the mid-teens kind of really driving very significant bottom line results for us.
That's the kind of continuation that we baked in.
We did not bake in anything above that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Craig Maurer with Autonomous.
Your line is open.
Yeah hi.
I was just hoping you could help me think about some of these recent co-brand deals where interchange has been presumably guaranteed at a much lower rate.
In these warehouse deals like Costco and Sam's Club where you might see a large influx of small-business spend because of the nature of those businesses how do you reconcile for the bank where interchange has been cut down to 40 basis points but they might have a small business card with 150 basis point cash back and no receivables balances that roll over? I mean I would imagine there's got be over the coming years some breaking point in this paradigm where something has to change.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Craig I mean that's a very specific certain aspect of our business right and I don't know all those numbers you just talked about because some of them are unfamiliar to me and probably known to somebody else who may have done deals of that type.
But I don't know about those.
I do know that at the end of the day interchange which was once upon a time many years ago just basically a announcement that went out with some kind of levels built in for category of spend over the years as you've noticed in many parts of the world interchange discussions aren't that inflexible and they do have discussions with merchants.
It's not just in the United States; it happens elsewhere as well.
If you for example were to look at the interchange on a high-value payment for electricity bills or for utilities it's very different from the interchange in a different kind of store.
And so in a way in fact the setting of merchant discount rates and interchange based on these kinds of conversations between merchants and acquirers and networks and issuing banks is part of what the industry is dealing with.
And I don't know that that's such a bad thing.
I think in fact if anything it makes some of the claims of there being only a one-sided perspective of this pricing being one way a little less tenuous a little less provable because if these transactions are being discussed then at that point of time that means there's a relatively open negotiation between some categories of merchants and some acquirers and some issuers and some networks and so on.
I don't know that all of that is a bad thing.
And I think the fact that rewards are in some cards and some cards may go to one merchant which may have a different interchange flow makes you think that the only revenue stream for a card is from interchange and I think that's inappropriate too.
There are multiple revenue streams into a card multiple revenue streams into an issuer multiple revenue streams that get used for providing a series of consumer benefits across tens of millions of merchants not one.
So I wouldn't try and equate one merchant with one card.
That's kind of not how this business is built.
And then if I can follow up quickly.
We've seen Congress look at why merchants are not getting any break for putting EMV in place if it supposedly will lower fraud costs.
It just seems like the networks are missing an opportunity to grab the narrative.
You have the most secure technology seen in payments ever with tokenization biometrics out there.
I mean it would make sense to me to grab that narrative back.
And say you put in this capability and we will offer a discount but you have to do this for us and we'll reciprocate.
I'm not trying to (54:51) - Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Craig the liability shift is what that's all about.
Exactly.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's exactly what the liability shift is.
It is actually about saying...
Understood.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...that if a merchant were to put in the appropriate level of terminal and type they will have the benefit of that.
That's exactly what it is.
Understood.
But you have a technology out there that goes beyond EMV.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No no no.
Not – but...
And there's...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...digital is a very small start.
And we are still talking – look 1% of the transactions are right now in a mobile phone in some cases in certain markets.
99% of the stuff is still happening in a certain way.
Even e-commerce in browser-based payments e-commerce is 6% or 7% of retail transactions in the U.S.
So I'm very focused on making sure that we get the EMV done.
Get the liability shift discussion out there.
Have it established.
Have it be the way in which the system is set.
And I'm sure over time when the digital space becomes larger similar logic will prevail.
I don't know exactly how it'll prevail.
I don't know what the nature of it will be.
So I'm not going to speculate.
But one step at a time.
This itself to me (56:03) the liability shift you remember when we first announced it a couple of years ago we were pretty much out there on our own for a while.
Because it's new.
And it needs to settle in.
So I say watch that space over time as it grows.
Okay thank you.
The next question is from Tom McCrohan with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
And I just had a question on the appetite that you're seeing in your conversations with your largest issuers to invest in new client acquisition particular given that rates still are low; are they waiting for rates to go higher before they do that? And there seems to be a lot of turmoil in the market and particularly at American Express with all the management changes.
I'm just wondering what kind of conversations you're having with your largest issuers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Tom my sense is that over the last year or two a number of the larger and even some of the medium-size and smaller issuers are clearly back in the market with an appetite for driving consumer acquisition.
And I mean that in the credit-debit kind of space.
Prepaid has been growing for a while.
Commercial's been growing for a while.
Some banks even during the crisis were able to sustain their ability to keep acquiring.
You know that they've come out of this with the right vintages.
And you can see the result in their growth rates of card ownership and spend rates.
Others had to hold back for a while and are now back in the market.
I kind of see things happening.
I don't think that card acquisition growth rates are being held back only by rate differential.
It's also by their comfort around credit quality.
And in fact that's where it starts from.
And you can see that as credit quality for the banks has improved delinquencies have come down write-offs have come down.
Their whole approach to being thoughtful about how to acquire consumers is very much back in the space.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Lisa Ellis with Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
You're now a few quarters in to the APT and 5one acquisitions.
Can you just Ajay give a little bit of an update on how you feel like those are going what kind of traction you're seeing incrementally on the merchant side as a result? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> APT actually is just a quarter.
The second quarter's now right.
So it's very new news but making good traction with APT.
We've actually got a number of deals that are in different stages of either having been signed and getting implemented as pilots because that's typically how this – it's a Test &amp; Learn thing.
That's what APT's into.
You tend to start at the pile of the client.
If it works well you'll get a bigger piece of business from them in order to move into a different space.
And that's pretty much what's going on.
We're actually very excited about APT.
It's got a huge potential for us in merchants.
Remember the best part about APT is that the data doesn't have to leave the merchant shop.
It stays into the merchant shop.
What's built into the terminals at the merchant shop is different tools that the APT team develops with their intellectual property on the Test &amp; Learn capability.
So it makes merchants far more comfortable.
Our anonymized data can be used to make that tool even more predictable but that data doesn't leave their shop.
So it's actually a pretty interesting opportunity.
5one 5one was a much smaller business when we bought it but it's completely integrated into what we're doing and giving us a great deal of merchant traction across the world.
They were very focused on a few markets.
It's moving to other places and you saw us when Kevin Stanton was standing up at the Investor Day recently he talked about examples of what we were doing with merchants and that's where we're headed.
I'd say watch the space.
It's early days.
We're beginning to see good relationships and frequent repurchasing from the merchants of things we're doing with them.
It will take us three four five years to make this what we want it to be but we're very focused on it.
Yeah and Lisa what's good is even early days I mean even for 5one which we've just about had for a year.
So for both 5one and APT we already put some points on the board in terms of real agreements that are driving some revenues for those businesses.
And that's very gratifying to see.
Operator I think we have time for one last question.
Certainly.
The final question is from Ken Bruce with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My question's probably a little far afield but there's a lot of energy going into this topic and I'm interested in your perspective on how blockchain technologies or distributed ledger technologies may be integrated into remittance and payments generally and specifically what MasterCard's activities are in the space.
Now ignoring Bitcoin.
I have no interest in that.
Really just blockchain technologies please.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Ken I think blockchain's got potential.
I've said this publicly quite a few times now on different panels and statements that I make.
I think the real issue here will be will legal dispute settlement systems accept a distributed ledger as a way of resolving a conflict if and when it were to arise between a payer and a receiver? Finally the whole payment system works on two or three things.
Trust that the money will get there.
Two that it will be accurate.
Three that if it's not accurate there's a methodology to get your money back.
I think that's going to have to be both the methodology of reaching people which in this case if there's a distributed chain that you don't know who the hell they are that's a little complicated.
And then alternatively a legal settlement process that you have recourse to.
I think all that needs to be figured out.
In addition to the basics which is will all this be accepted for in the case of remittances and other things? Will it be accepted for the right kind of level playing field by the regulators on KYC and Anti-Money Laundering and those kinds of things? I believe that over a period of time either the blockchain the way it is today or some derivative of it as we all experiment and evolve with it and engage in a dialogue with it I'm sure it'll have a role to play whether it's in remittance and payments or it's in different kinds of record-keeping audits and asset transfer audits a mix of all those I don't yet know.
But I think not engaging with it would be a serious error.
And a lot of people in our MasterCard Labs – Garry Lyons actually if you ever run into him – that would be a good guy to talk to about this.
He knows more about this than I'll ever learn.
And he will tell you that we've been experimenting in this space for a while.
We've got patents in the space.
We've got experimentations and lab designs in the space.
We've got investments with venture capital firms in the space.
We've got investments directly in companies in that space to learn and I guess make our mistakes along the way but that's what we're doing.
Great.
Thank you.
Ajay? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
So thank you all for your question.
I'm going to leave you with a very short list of a few closing thoughts.
And the first is I continue to think our business is performing well.
You can see that reflected in our continuing strong volume strong transaction growth.
Global economic uncertainty remains.
We are seeing that in the periods of growth in some regions in some aspects as the first question I got about cross-border.
We're pleased with the progress of the rollout of EMV in the U.S.
continuing to build on our momentum with MasterPass and MDES and tokenization in the digital payments space but it's early days.
We remain focused on driving future growth opportunities while managing what we're going through today and the needs of our business today.
So thank you so much for your continued support of the company and thank you for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MasterCard Fourth Quarter Full-Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
Head of Investor Relations Ms.
Barbara Gasper you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sean.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for a discussion about our fourth quarter and full-year 2015 financial results.
With me on the call this morning are Ajay Banga our President and Chief Executive Officer and Martina Hund-Mejean our Chief Financial Officer.
Following comments from Ajay and Martina the operator will announce your opportunity to get into the queue for the QA makes session.
Up until then no one is actually registered to ask a question.
Even if you think you have already dialed into the queue you will need to register again for the QA following our prepared comments.
This morning's earnings release and the slide deck that will be referenced on this call can be found on the investor relations section of our website www.mastercard.com.
These documents include some reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to their GAAP equivalents so I would like to call your attention to the several appendix slides at the end of the slide deck.
The documents have also been attached to an 8-K that we filed with the SEC earlier this morning.
A replay of this call will be posted on our website for one month.
Finally as set forth in more detail in today's earning release I need to remind everyone that today's call may include some forward-looking statements about MasterCard's future performance.
Actual performance could differ materially from what is suggested by our comments today.
Information about the factors that could affect future performance are summarized at the end of our press release as well as contained in our recent SEC filings.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Ajay Thank you Barbara.
Good morning everybody.
I'm very pleased to be able to deliver strong results for both our fourth quarter and the full year performance even with the mixed global economy.
For the fourth quarter after we adjust for the euro and the Brazilian real translations we report net revenue growth of 9% and EPS growth of 22% driven by solid underlying metrics.
And for the full year we saw net revenue growth of 8% and EPS growth of 18% excluding special items.
And most importantly when you remove the impact of the functional currency translation as I just said for the euro and the Brazilian real but also for what we call local FX which is the impact from other transactional currency pairs.
Our fourth quarter net revenue growth was 12%.
And on that basis for the full year net revenue growth was almost 11%.
Moving onto the global economy we continue to see challenges in many parts of the world.
The U.S.
economy seems the most resilient and had good growth in both consumer spending and jobs.
In Europe growth is expected to increase at the fastest pace since 2011 although this is at a lower-level driven by stronger domestic demand and exports.
However several big emerging market economies China and Brazil being examples are experiencing either week or slowing growth.
And of course oil prices and their impact on oil-sensitive markets around the world political instability security concerns in some tourist destinations these are all concerns that bare careful watching.
We're globally connected as a Company and so what you've got to do is to work to successfully navigate through these challenges exactly as we have in the past.
So with that backdrop let's get into our business.
Our business continues to grow and our fundamentals remain strong.
We saw double-digit volume and transaction growth across all regions except for the U.S.
We saw growth in the mid to high single digits.
In additionally our services businesses provide a nice complement to our volume-based core business and continue to show good growth.
So moving onto a few highlights of the year and some of our recent business activity.
Overall I'd say 2015 was a year that had its economic challenges and maybe also had a deal of foreign exchange volatility.
And as I said earlier not just in the euro or Brazilian real which are functional currencies but in the other local transaction currency pairs as well.
But despite all that I think we have navigated these circumstances well and we but significant points on the board as a result of our investments in digital payments in safety and security as well as in a financial inclusion.
And this year we've talked about winning some significant customer deals and called on many of those in previous calls but to cap off the year let me mention a few that we had in the fourth quarter.
So this past quarter we renewed and we expanded our relationships with a number of our larger customers including in this case Citigroup's commercial card portfolios in Asia-Pacific in Europe and the United States.
The HSBC premier consumer credit business covering 28 markets around the world.
In Italy we signed the long term debit agreement with both Italian to migrate their Maestro cards to debit MasterCard.
But we also expanded advisor services to help them drive financial inclusion and digital products for their customers.
In Russia VTB24 which is the second largest bank and the card issuer in that country is converting their debit card portfolio to MasterCard.
And another example we signed the long term renewal with Qatar National Bank one of the largest banks in the Arab world for their debit card portfolio.
Turning to China I don't have anything new to report to you about the opening of the domestic market.
That's still a work in process.
But we're executing on certain elements that have already been in the draft regulations such as building out our technology underground.
Meanwhile we're continuing to work with our Chinese customers as they themselves prepare for the next wave of payments growth as well as to expand into the digital space.
So let me give you two or three examples to give you some color on what are doing.
We were closing with Bank of China and ICBC these are two of China's top five state hold commercial banks to launch their mobile payment products in China.
They're utilizing our organization and cloud-based technologies for that.
And while waiting for the new regulations some banks are beginning to issue single-branded cards with international networks.
In 2015 we have launched 32 single-branded programs in China including one this past quarter with the Bank of Communications for their first single-branded EMV credit card.
They also utilize our fraud management products.
Now what I mean by single-branded is that we're the only network brand on that card.
There is no China union pay on that card.
That is what single-branded mean.
Finally we're also seeing more issuance of commercial card products.
In the fourth quarter we won new business to the Bank of Beijing and with the Agriculture Bank of China for their commercial card portfolios.
And 2015 was a big year for us in the digital space.
We're actually pleased with our progress in our MasterPass.
We've launched in 13 new markets this year in the fourth quarter.
Japan Sweden Ireland Slovakia were the latest markets to go live and that brings the total number of MasterPass markets to 29.
In 2015 we launched the total of 64 new MasterPass enabled wallets with some of the more recent additions being Axis Bank in India Nedbank in South Africa and the first wallet in Japan with UC Card.
We're busy expanding acceptance with premier merchants representing the largest volume opportunities in the marketplace.
And you've read about Walmart and Sam's Club Staples Sears JetBlue Barnes &amp; Noble College Crate and Barrel et cetera et cetera -- all of whom are launching MasterPass in this coming year of 2016.
And in our third quarter earnings call I talked about the launch of the MasterCard Compass for every device program to enable any consumer gadget any accessory available whatever to become a payment device.
We also mentioned we were working with fashion designers with auto makers with smart band developers.
And last quarter we announced our partnership with General Motors to integrate our digital enablement system into their own OnStar platform.
And we're actually continuing to build on that momentum because this month earlier at the consumer electronic show along with Samsung we announced Groceries by MasterCard.
That's basically a new app that allows consumers to order groceries directly from their new Family Hub refrigerator.
We've also announced the partnership with Coin that's the consumer electronics and financial software company.
They will help us to bring MasterCard payments to a wide array of fitness bands like those from Atlas Wearables or Moov or smart watches from Omate and other available devices.
While none of these is expected to be big on their own it kind of demonstrates the breadth of the opportunity in digital payments and our engagement to that opportunity as every device over the next two years begins to enable commerce.
Another area of focus for us in 2015 was safety and security.
And there have been some big moves in this space including significant progress in the U.S.
EMV migration -- even though the industry was slightly short of its forecast of 50% of issued credit and debit cards being chip-enabled by the end of the year they're pretty close.
As volume from chip-enabled cards continues to grow we still expect almost all U.S.
cards to be upgraded before the end of 2017.
And merchants are continuing to enable new terminals and ATMs are being upgraded as well.
So this is kind of a work in progress but in the right direction.
Looking beyond the U.S.
we deployed a number of security solutions from tokenization to Selfie Pay to something called Safety Net.
And Safety Net is our real-time fraud solution.
What it does is it detects attacks upon threats globally across all products all channels -- that's point-of-sale and ATM.
And it's a great example of how we're leveraging the unique capability of our global network and analytical capability.
It can identify isolate and stop cyber-attacks often before the bank is even aware of them.
And as a result now more than 80% of our issuers around the world and are using Safety Net as a service from us.
That's an example of the kinds of products we're building in our services business which is as you know advisors consulting information services with all these safety and security products.
And loyalty and rewards are all apart of this services effort that we're putting into place.
So last year as part of our financial inclusion efforts we signed about 600 new government programs including I think some very innovative ones.
The example of the Egyptian government comes to mind.
We were going to extend financial services to more than 54 million Egyptians by linking their national digital ID something the government is issuing to a mobile wallet to receive government benefits employer payroll as well as a P2P capability across all banks and all telcos by the way.
It's a countrywide effort.
And finally we've worked through various regulatory challenges including being the first network to migrate domestic card transactions to the new Russian NSP card switch [ph] as well as implementing the new European payment regulations.
So that's 2015.
Some business wins something about what we're doing and digital and MasterPass what we're up to in services and safety and security and the work in financial inclusion and as a backdrop behind the revenue numbers I gave you.
But looking forward 2016 we expect this year to similar to what we saw in 2015.
It's a complex environment.
I consider that currency will remain a challenge over the course of the year.
The dollar is going to keep strengthening.
But our plan is to stay focused on executing our strategy to displace cash to play a defining role in digital and innovate for the future.
And that means expanding our services businesses as well.
We've got to grow our processing capabilities so we can see more transactions that then enable us to provide greater insights through analytics as well as providing robust safety and security solutions so we can offer better protection for our cardholder for merchants and for our issuing bank partners.
We're going to continue to pursue profitable market share while diversifying our revenues.
And at the same time I think you'll find us continue to work hard to manage our expenses so we can allocate more resources to these growth areas And with that I'm going to turn it over to Martina for an update on our financial results and operational metrics.
Martina? Thanks Ajay and good morning everyone.
As you just heard despite strong FX headwinds we closed out the quarter well.
Let me give you some highlights on the fourth quarter starting with page 3 where you can see the difference between asset reported and FX adjusted gross rates.
So EPS growth was 14% or 22% after adjusting for currency.
Continued revenue momentum good cost control executing on our tax strategies and purchasing shares all contributed to that performance.
Acquisitions that we made in 2014 and 2015 drove $0.03 of EPS dilution in the quarter.
Included in our other income and expense line was $83 million of impairment charges predominantly related to some of our very early investments in mobile.
A number of these investments have performed well while others have not met our expectations.
Next our tax rate of 13.1% in the quarter was more favorable than we expected due to the benefits that resulted from the impact of settlements with tax authorities related to the tax audits that I have mentioned as a possibility at our investor day last September.
Share repurchase contributed $0.02 per share to our fourth quarter results.
As of January 22 we have $4.2 billion remaining under our current authorization.
Lastly cash from operations was $1 billion.
We ended the quarter with cash cash equivalents and other liquid investments of about $6.7 billion.
So let me turn to page 4 where you can see the operational metrics for the fourth quarter.
Our worldwide gross dollar volume or GDV was up 12% on a local currency basis down 1 PPT from last quarter.
Overall our U.S.
GDV grew 8% made up of credit and debit growth of 9% and 8% respectively.
Total U.S.
GDV had a continued almost 2 PPT headwind from lower gas prices.
Outside of the U.S.
volume growth was 14% on a local currency basis down to PPT versus last quarter with mid-teens growth in each region.
And on cross-border volume we grew 12% on a local currency basis lower than the 16% we saw in the third quarter primarily driven by the political instability and economic conditions around the world as well as the lapping of some recent wins in Europe and Canada.
Turning to page 5 you can see global process transaction growth was 12% the same as what we saw in the third quarter.
We continued to see double-digit growth in all regions outside of the U.S.
And globally the number of cards grew 7% with $2.3 billion MasterCard and Maestro branded cards issued.
Now let's turn to page 6 for some highlights on a few of the revenue line items.
Net revenue growth was 4% as reported or 9% FX adjusted given currency headwinds.
Additionally the impact of local currency exchange rates was higher than we expected more than 3 PPT driven by currency such as the Venezuelan bolivar and the Canadian dollar.
After eliminating both currency impacts our underlying net revenue growth was about 12%.
Rebates and incentives were slightly higher than we expected due to the timing of some deal in the works and acquisitions contributed about 2 PTT to net revenue growth up slightly from the 1 PPT we saw last quarter.
Looking quickly at the individual line items -- revenue line items on an FX adjusted basis.
Domestic assessments grew 10% while worldwide GDV grew 12%.
This 2 PPT gap is primarily due to the impact of local currency somewhat offset by pricing.
Cross-border volume fees grew 13% while cross-border volume grew 12%.
Of the 1 PPT gap the majority is due to a higher mix of intra-Europe activity some local currency impact and lower inbound U.S.
cross-border volume -- essentially offset by pricing.
Transaction processing fees grew 13% primarily driven by the 12% growth in process transaction.
Finally other revenue grew 26% driven primarily by advisors as well as our an APT and TNS acquisition.
Moving on to page 7 you can see that total operating expenses increased 1% in the quarter or 4% on an FX adjusted basis.
This growth was essentially all driven by M&amp;A activities as we focused on integrating the acquisitions we made in 2014 and 2015.
So you can see the underlying expense growth was essentially flat from last year.
The non-recurrence of a significant severance charge in the last -- in last year's fourth quarter was offset by several factors including additional personnel expense as a result of our investment and strategic growth areas higher processing costs due to both more transactions across our network as well as the fees paid to NSP card for processing [indiscernible] Russian transactions and lower foreign currency related gains versus the prior year.
Let me turn to slide 8.
And here we can discuss what we have seen in January through the 21.
Most of our business drivers are a bit higher or similar to what we experienced in the fourth quarter.
But here are the numbers through January 21.
Starting with processed volume we saw global growth of 14% up 2 PPT from the fourth quarter.
In the U.S.
our processed volume grew 13% up almost 4 PPT from the fourth quarter with higher growth in both credit and debit.
Gas had a 1 PPT negative impact on our January growth compared to the almost 2 PPT drag in the fourth quarter.
Processed volume outside the U.S.
grew 16% the same as the fourth quarter with doubled digit growth in each region.
Globally processed transaction growth was 13% up slightly from the 12% we saw in the fourth quarter.
And growth outside the U.S.
slowed just a bit primarily due to the lapping of some business wins as well as a slowdown in Brazil.
U.S.
growth was up 2 PPT driven by improvements in both credit and debit.
And with respect to cross-border our volumes grew at 12% globally.
That's the same that we saw in the fourth quarter.
Now let me start out talking about our long term performance objectives which as you know exclude the translation impact of our euro and Brazilian real functional currencies.
On that basis for the 2013 to 2015 period net revenue growth was 10.5% close to the low end of the range.
Beyond the euro and Brazilian real we experienced extremely strong foreign exchange headwinds from the other local currency pairs that Ajay has just referenced which resulted in about 2 PPT impact to our compound annual growth rate.
Therefore the underlying net revenue growth for this period was over 12%.
We achieved our margin commitments and delivered a 19.2% compound annual growth for EPS over the period excluding the tax benefits we saw in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Again when I exclude the impact from those local currency pairs the EPS CAGR was over 20%.
Now let's move on to our 2016 to 2018 objectives which are net revenue CAGR of low double digits operating margin of at least 50% and an EPS CAGR in the mid-teens.
Remember these objectives are on the constant currency basis and exclude any new M&amp;A activities.
Going forward you should be using a pro forma 2015 EPS figure of $3.12 as the starting point for the three-year EPS CAGR calculation.
The pro forma number is calculated based on a normalized 2015 tax rate of 30.4% which adjusts for several one-time tax benefits.
The largest of these is from the significantly favorable outcome of some tax audits that concluded late in 2015.
And consistent with the methodology we have used in the past it also excludes the impact of special items.
As you heard from Ajay we expect 2016 to be a continuation of 2015.
For the U.S.
and European economies are showing signs of strength but the rest of the world remains challenged.
In addition foreign exchange volatility will continue to be with us into 2016.
We have navigated through periods like this before and we will continue to run the Company for growth both on the top and bottom line as well as balancing our investments with astute expense management.
So as we look at full-year 2016 our underlying business fundamentals remain strong.
However we expect to be at the low end of our were three-year performance objectives due to current FX levels relative to where they were back in September when we first developed these objectives.
These objectives already included some level of local FX headwinds though they are now expected to be higher than what we assumed in September.
And I know as you model all your numbers on an as-reported basis you need to adjust for the impact of our euro and Brazilian real functional translation.
And at current rates that results in a 2 PPT headwind on net revenue growth and a 3 PPT headwind to bottom line growth.
For 2016 let me call out a few additional items that you should also consider.
For rebates and incentives we expect to see slightly lower growth this year than the 20% as-reported growth rate that we saw in 2015 which is much different than what we see in some of your current models.
On expenses just a couple of comments you just heard Ajay talk about putting money into our growth areas.
Well for 2015 that was focused on a number of acquisitions.
With that integration process well underway this year we will accelerate our investments in digital certain geographies such as China as well as in safety and security.
Also in last year's first quarter we had $40 million of FX gains in the G&amp;A line associated with the events in Venezuela that are not expected to recur this year.
As a result you should expect our total operating expense growth to increase in the high single-digit range.
Now having said that as you all know we always plan our investments with a certain degree of flexibility depending on the market or macroeconomic environment.
We're already prepared with contingency plans to adjust expenses should the need to course correct the necessary.
In the other expense line interest expense associated with the euro denominated debt that we issued last November at roughly $10 million to our normal underlying run rate of roughly $15 million per quarter.
So this is $15 million per quarter.
You should assume a roughly similar tax rate for 2016 as the 30% normalized rate I just spoke about four 2015.
And finally we realize that it's becoming more difficult for many of you to model our business as FX rates continue to move around.
We're thinking how to make this entire topic more transparent so stay tuned on this.
Now let me turn the call back to Barbara to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Barbara? Thanks Martina.
We're now ready to begin the question and answer period.
And in order to get to as many people as possible we ask that you limit yourself to a single question and then queue back in for additional question.
Sean? [Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Your line is open.
Martina I had a question on the 2015 base.
There is some confusion since the three-year guidance that you guys gave at the investor day was on a constant-currency basis.
But it looks like the 312 that you guys are pointing to an appendix D strips out some significant items but doesn't add back FX headwinds yet.
In appendix C you guys include the FX adjustment for the 2012 to 2015 period.
Can you just walk us through the thought process behind that please? Yes.
So first of all when you look at the objective from 2013 to 2015 you have to start with the base of 2012.
Right? And the base in 2012 are basically actual numbers adjusted for only one line item which was the tax line item -- basically our special tax benefits that are not expected to be repeated.
So that's the $2.14.
When you walk to 2015 what we did there is you have to adjust for foreign exchange for the euro and the BRL because that is -- when we do our performance objective on an FX adjusted basis -- so you put basically back in $0.21 on top of the EPS that we print.
Right? So you start with an EPS of $3.35.
You add in the special items of $0.08 which is $3.43.
You add back the foreign exchange which is $0.21.
You are adding back the acquisitions and you are adding back these one-time tax items all of which we called out which gets you to the $3.62.
And when you do the differential between the $2.14 to the $3.62 you are getting actually that 19.2% compounded annual growth rate.
So that is the history.
Now let me focus on 2015 and going forward.
So for the 2016 to 2018 financial objectives -- 2015 you are not starting with the $3.62 because that is an FX adjusted number.
Of course we're going to have to start with the real number -- with an actual number right? So you start again with a $3.35.
That's exactly our as-reported number in the financials.
You adjust for that for the special items which is the $0.08.
So you are going to $3.43.
And then you are putting in -- and then you are taking out the tax items $0.31 of that.
And that's how you get to $3.12.
So you are on actual FX rates for the starting point you adjusted for the special item and you self-adjusted for the special tax items.
That's how you get to the $3.12 which is the basis upon which we calculate our future EPS performance.
The next question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Your line is open.
Martina following along your thought process line -- so when we look ahead 2016 what we would do is take that $3.12 grow it by the mid-teens and then account for the 3 percentage point headwind of the local currencies? Thanks.
Yes that is what you're going to have to do-- 15 at the high end -- it will be 12% growth off the $3.12.
So first of all Sanjay you start with the $3.12.
You grow it for whatever number you want to grow it at for the next three years.
My statement for foreign exchange was only an outlook for 2016.
Right? I have not given you an outlook for 2016 to 2018.
So when you look at your 2016 numbers whatever numbers you are going to come up on topline to net revenue to get to the as-reported you are going to have to take 2 PPT out.
When you look at the bottom line both for net income and EPS you are going to have to take 3 PPT out in order to get to your as-reported.
But that's a 2016 statement not a three-year statement.
I'm sorry to follow up on that.
On the low end of the targeted range of -- for low -- or for mid-teens is? Look we have low double-digit growth.
That is our three-year guidance.
And we are at the low end of the low double-digit.
So just to be clear all we are saying -- bake through all this stuff -- all we are seeing is 2016 is turning out to be a crazier year than we thought in September only because between September and December lots of local currencies moved around.
And those normally are inside our revenue number.
We're just trying to make you understand that.
That's all we are doing.
Beyond that the euro and the real are the euro and real.
They are functional currency's.
You guys are more used to that one.
In that there's a 2 PPT headwind on revenue and a 3 PPT on net income and EPS.
I'll she's trying to do is clarify that for you for 2016.
We'll be at the lower end of our numbers.
And when you do actual as-reported as compared to FX just make sure your account for the euro and the real.
That is all we're trying to provide you with guidance on.
Other than that we are conducting our business the way we normally conduct it.
We're going after business volume revenue diversification services and the rest of it.
The next question comes from the line of Matthew Howlett from UBS.
Your line is open.
Can you just clarify the trends you said? In January you said everything was trending up over 4Q? Yes.
So in January 21 just to repeat that processed volume we actually saw growth of 14%.
So that's up 2 PPT from the fourth quarter.
In the US actually we grew 13% up almost 4 PPT from the fourth quarter.
And then outside of the US it was pretty much the same as the fourth quarter at 16%.
Our processed transaction growth also up slightly at 13%.
We saw 12% in the fourth quarter.
And then cross-border was pretty much the same.
The cross-border growth was right at that 12% that we saw in the fourth quarter.
And then just on the China region with the wins you are having over there is that going to take all the offset? We just noticed a weakness in that region.
Can you just maybe just go a little bit more in detail in terms of what you're seeing overall versus the wins you are gaining? Yes.
So look I don't think it that China's wins per say on these single-banded cards and the like.
They all take time to build as numbers.
I do think that China spending is what you are concerned about.
And what you will find interestingly is not that Chinese tourists are not traveling.
They're traveling to different places.
Earlier instead of going to greater China Hong Kong Taiwan a lot of that today they're going more Japan as an example.
Japan has actually seen a surge of 115% in tourist arrivals from China compared to the prior year.
So current direction and location is changing.
Domestic spending is certainly impacted in China.
I was in China last week and you could see it there.
So I don't know that merely winning a few more deals will change the nature of revenue growth trajectory in China over the course of one year.
Over the course of a couple years absolutely.
It can help.
But I wouldn't assume that China's revenue growth will be exactly as it used to be just given the amount of economic change that is going on in that country.
The next question comes from the line of Darrin Peller from Barclays.
Your line is open.
It's nice to see the solid expense management when you need to.
And I guess we looked at how this quarter -- your expenses did grow by call it mid-single digit on a constant-currency basis including acquisitions.
But excluding deals you guys had roughly flat expenses in the quarter.
I know you mentioned investments in China and digital and security but I also thought you guys were doing that throughout this year.
So I guess just some clarity on why that couldn't be roughly low-single digits again or flattish even with the same reinvestments in China and digital.
Especially if your acquisitions are coming down I think now right? Well our acquisitions are actually starting to be really part of our base business and doing very well I have to say.
But what really we have to dial up and we talked about that quite a bit in September with you is two areas.
One is China.
Ajay was already mentioning that we have started to put our investments on the ground.
2016 will be a fairly heavy-duty year for that.
And that will require some investment.
And the second area is still digital.
As you heard we already rolled out MasterPass in 29 countries.
There's a heck of a lot more that we have to do and we have to gather a lot more banks issuers as well as merchants onto that platform.
So those are the very -- the two big areas where we will now focus on.
You'll see us honestly investing in that and you'll see us investing in all the services businesses information services of consulting of processing of safety and security because without processing more transactions -- and I've said this a few times.
Look at Europe.
We only process 40% of our transactions.
Now that is from where we used to be but it's still only 40% because of all the local schemes that exist in every country.
And clearly the opportunity for us is to process more transactions so we see more data and we use that data for our services.
Our services business depends on that data.
It's all about the analytics that get created and the transactions we see.
So that's the kind of investments that we think we should be making in 2016.
But Martina if you talk to our business people in the Company you will hear from them that Martina is a relatively painful person because she tracks it by quarter.
And then she alluded to her astute expense management that's otherwise called a gatekeeper.
She gives it to you every quarter based on what she thinks the trends are for how the Company is going.
And so she is able to manage her expense management both for strategic investment and the underlying core built to suite the cloth that we are dealing with.
That's the idea that we're trying to communicate to you.
But there should be a step down in the incremental integration expense related to acquisitions this year-- Absolutely.
From the current acquisitions -- absolutely correct now look we do some others which is a different thing.
But all that we've -- and now in our basin basically as you said by the second year they go into our basin.
We deal with them as part of our core expenses.
The next question comes from the line of David Togut from Evercore.
Your line is open.
With domestic credit and debit interchange caps going into effect in Europe in December 9 can you comment on any impact you have seen on your card issuing banks or any thoughts going forward on whether payment acceptance in Europe could increase as a result? Nothing has changed in six weeks.
Europe doesn't work in six weeks cycles.
You know a different Europe from what I know.
But frankly I would tell you this.
The conversation about the impact on banks the impact on merchants the likely on acceptance that conversation has been going on from the day and the regulations have been complement.
There's nothing new to tell you from what we've discussed earlier.
Banks are clearly worried about the impact of their revenue stream.
They are clearly looking at ways to make up that either through fees or through other methods.
Clearly merchants with a lower cost of acceptance should be willing more to accept electronic payments than they used to.
As you know Europe is a relatively underpenetrated market on electronic payments compared to its sophistication as a destination.
And so there's a lot of opportunity there as well.
And then there are all these local schemes that are re-looking at their context given the digital change and the investment that is required to upgrade themselves to digital.
That is how we have been winning more domestic processing over the years.
All of that is pretty much a trend even now.
So in fact David as we were running up to the December 9 deadline a lot of work was done by our people especially by our advisor people in our consulting business helping banks as well as merchants to be getting ready for that.
And that's the opportunity that actually Ajay was referencing -- is that there are real life engagements that we could be doing -- we did do in order to get them ready and make sure that their portfolios are in a shape that they can take it profitably forward.
The next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.
Your line is open.
Just want to focus on your comments around cross-border in Europe.
You mentioned a grow-over issue.
Can you quantify that at all? Is it relatively small? And any more detail on what those wins were last year? And a separate question you mentioned the processing share in Europe.
It looks like process transactions are growing a little slower than your overall volumes at this point.
Is that just a mixed issue? And if it is a mixed issue what is causing the slower growth in transaction? Thanks.
Yes.
So first of all in Europe we won actually some wins some time ago in the Nordics.
And they are now lapping.
And that's where you see some of the impact in our volume numbers including the cross-border numbers including the transaction numbers by the way.
They were terrific wins but they're lapping at some point in time so they are going to our baseline.
Other than that there is really nothing different going on than what we've seen in prior quarters.
And those wins were they airline programs? No.
These are banks.
Banks of the Nordics -- SEB Bank Nordea Danske all of these in the Nordics.
The next question comes from the line of Tien-tsin Huang from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Just a couple clarifying questions if you don't mind.
Just first on the fourth quarter operating expense how did that come in versus plan? Did you pare back spending based on something you saw? Or was it more just FX? And then your high-single digit comment for 2016 in OpEx is that a reported or local currency growth comment? So Tien-tsin for the fourth quarter fourth quarter was we managed through fourth quarter the way that we actually have expected to manage through fourth quarter.
And as Ajay said I'm a little bit of a stickler with the budget and what people can do.
So of course we did everything that we could do in the operating-- I'm going to pay for that comment later Tien-tsin.
I'm getting looks from across the table.
Yes you're getting looks on that one.
So on the operating expense line we made sure that we basically fund those investments that we need to do.
Now all of the numbers that I have called out both for the fourth quarter as well as for the 2016 numbers they are all on an FX adjusted basis.
Right? Tien-tsin we always call out the euro and the BRL.
And that's why we've been giving you the headwinds numbers in terms of what you should be assuming going forward.
So coming back again when you look at 2016 for the topline it's a 2 PPT headwind because of euro and BRL.
For the bottom line it's a 3 PPT headwind for the euro and BRL.
So we can basically think that operating expenses has a little bit of an issue from an FX headwind point of view too.
Okay.
And just on slide 12 the reconciliation for the three-year CAGR looking back the 10.5% and the 19.2% revenue EPS -- is that comparable to the prior objectives? Yes.
So Tien-tsin this is as I was trying to explain to Bill.
This is completely done in the basis that we had put out.
Right? So four -- when you look at the revenue line -- the net revenue line we said it will be adjusted for any acquisitions that we had not announced at that point in time and it will be on an FX neutral basis for the euro and BRL.
So when you look at page 12 and you see our net revenue growth of 9.5% you see two adjustments which gets you to the 10.5%.
And then for the bottom line very similar to how we laid out the 2012 base number of a $2.14 EPS.
We calculated the 2015 EPS in exactly the same way with exactly the same principles.
That gets you to the $3.62 for a growth rate of 19.2%.
So the difference between 19.2% then and the at least 20 that you are targeting can be explained by-- All by local effects.
So that is actually a very important point.
I am glad you are bringing it up.
The 19.2% had more local effects in there than we would have ever thought about when we put the performance objectives together back in 2012.
Remember last year's foreign exchange volatility in the market and the way the dollar appreciated has not been seen in over 15 years.
It was an extraordinary year.
And by the way I also sat in my prepared remarks when you look at the revenue line that 10.5% would have been over 12% if we course-corrected for all of those local FX headwinds.
The next question comes from the line of Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Ajay your cross-border held up very well relative to Visa over the years.
And I think more recently you have been feeling pretty good about it.
Can you talk about what's changed and are we seeing trough levels here? I know it's one of your higher-margin products.
I just want to get your sense on the outlook.
Yes Don we've navigated through this 12% kind of number on cross-border growth earlier.
This is my sixth year into the place here.
And I have seen 12% I have seen 16% and up and down from that.
I -- my view of what's going on in cross-border right now is that the fact is that tourism around the world did get impacted in the fourth quarter of last year.
There is no doubt that when the Parisian terrorist attacks happened it impacted France for a while.
There's no doubt that when the Egyptian plane went down it impacted tourism into that area.
And so that's just reality.
A lot of these tend to bounce back over time.
Paris did come back.
Not exactly to the level that it was growing at.
Remember Paris is the world's number one tourist destination the world's number one.
And some portion of it comes from tourism some portion of it comes from corporate travel some portion of it comes from e-commerce.
And these different elements have been impacted differently by the way the world is seeing its geopolitical circumstances over the last two or three or four months.
That's why I think our numbers are still running even at 12 in the first 21 days of this year.
And they are not going higher or lower.
It's kind of where we are.
We're sitting there.
I'm going to watch that very carefully because it does impact my revenues.
Sort of every transaction and sort of many other things but cross-border is a particularly interesting part of it.
And so we watch it carefully.
And that is part of the reason why we believe that in 2016 one of the reasons where we're saying take a look at us being at the lower end of our revenue guidance to you for the three-year period -- is all these factors are inside that thinking of our budget for the year.
The next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
I was very impressed with the acceleration in January in the US.
And it sounded like from the comments that one percentage point of it was in fact from less of a drag on gas prices but another 3 PPT seems to be coming.
Is that partners that are doing better? Are there other things we should be aware of either wins or losses in the US to affect the balance of 2016? You have a number of factors going in there.
Of course gas is -- because of the lapping effect has one impact.
But we are also doing better on the pin side.
Okay so we have more volume coming through there.
Secondly we have a number of clients who actually picked up their volume.
And so we are seeing some of that.
And lastly we also are getting in the more fully lapping period from the loss of Chase.
Remember we had loss of Chase.
We've had our wins.
That complex intermix is coming into play.
And then some of our -- it's our mix of clients as well.
We have had a couple of years of some of the clients -- we've had the larger ones -- were struggling on their own growth.
If you like the scores you look at the numbers that are publicly released those folks are doing better over the last few months.
That helps us.
So it's a mix of all of that.
So that's a good thing.
Correct.
Absolutely.
And how does USAA factor in? Not yet because they are still on our books.
But the migration will happen over time.
Credit will migrate and then debit will migrate over the last 12 to 18 months at a certain pace and process.
And that will certainly go away from some of our numbers.
But you know what? You get wins and losses.
I would not rotate on any one win or one loss otherwise you will drive yourself crazy.
The next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom from Guggenheim.
Your line is open.
This is Jeff Kay [ph] on for Eric.
[Indiscernible] technology is increasingly on the reader in the payment space particularly with cross-border.
I think we are at the stage of the hype cycle where the reality no longer matches some of the more aggressive assumptions as far as what the technology is really capable of.
So I was wondering if you could just help frame the public conversation specifically with respect to what you're seeing in terms of internal opportunities and also if you could share your views on its perception as an external threat.
Thanks very much.
I want to make sure I understood your question.
You're trying to have a dialogue with us about how we think about digital as an opportunity as a disruptor as a transformation in the commerce place of the plane.
Is that what you are looking for -- broad conversation around that? Correct.
A how you would potentially use the technology.
And B what your opinion is of it as an external threat.
You're talking about Blockchain specifically? Are you talking about digital transaction as a whole? Are you just talking about -- I just want to make sure I give you a substantive answer.
With respect to digital please.
Thanks.
Digital over all.
Okay.
So first of all my belief is that this thing is going through its cycle.
Four or five years ago the conversation was that the mobile payment operators would be able to create their own payment systems because they had both consumers and email voicemail phone connectivity with millions and billions of consumers.
Why would they need anybody else to provide? As you saw over time we have now got 50 of those [indiscernible] around the world signed up as our partners.
And some of them in fact we have entered the JVs with that have done well others have not done so well.
That is actually one of the write-downs that Martina was referring to.
Over time they're going to invest in different directions.
Some of them will do well some of them will not.
And a couple of those haven't done as well as we would like to.
My general sense is the mobile network operated payment system for person to merchant has yet to prove itself in scale in any marketplace at all.
From person to person payments there is a little more going on.
Okay so I just -- I think that's a bit of a challenge on where those are going.
I think on non-mobile network operator that is to say hardware-based Samsung and Apple Google -- there's some interesting new developments we are seeing with contact-less payments and in-app payments.
I don't know yet that browser-based payments will go where with that bunch of digital giants.
But remember browser is the largest portion of digital payments today.
And frankly out three to four years it will still be overwhelmingly the large percentage of digital payments.
So that's another one to be card through.
I do think that the biggest conversation that's going on in digital is the safety and security of those transactions.
And a lot of our effort and energy has definitely gone into organization not just for MasterPass for our banks and merchants but even for -- not just new transactions but even for cards on file.
Because frankly with EMV in the US where do you think fraud will migrate to? It's going to migrate to online.
And that's what happened to every country around the world.
So our focus here is not just in solving Band-Aids with EMV it's on making the whole payment system more secure over time.
That's why tokenization is key.
And a large amount of our investment and those of our competitor is going into that space.
That's why we agreed on industry standard for tokenization so we shouldn't create fiction between banks and merchants on which standard to work with.
So you're going to see a lot of energy and effort in that space.
And I think the other piece that will come into play in digital will be the intelligence that will drive the capability of banks and merchants to drive better transaction better relationships with their consumers.
And that's why the effort on services and analytics.
So you kind of -- that's why I think about digital.
I think of it as a big opportunity.
When 85% of the world's transactions are still in cash there is a lot of space out here.
And it's the same view I have about existing competitors in the payment system.
Rather than say domestic debit scheme in a country or it's the larger competitors or it's a China union or anybody else my view is there is a lot of space here.
You've got a get off the 85%.
We can all growth in there and still have a pretty good run rate for this industry for some years to come.
And within that what Ajay was saying obviously we are exploring any new technologies be it the Blockchain be it biometrics be it what's happening in the mobile space.
And we obviously work with many partners around the globe in order to make sure that we can deliver the products and services that consumers and merchants are demanding that the banks want to deliver and so new technology is nothing new to us.
We're going to have to be on the forefront of that every day of the year.
The next question comes from the line of Jamie Friedman from Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
I wanted to ask about the commercial corporate market.
One of your competitors one in New York not in California had called out weakness in the corporate market.
I wasn't sure if their loss was your gain or something more structural.
You're trying to triangulate stuff.
Okay.
So I don't know what somebody else was saying.
I'm not going to comment on that.
That's their business and they're a very good competitor.
So let them do what they are doing.
My general opinion across the world on the commercial market for corporate clients is that it's still healthy and something that there is opportunity for us to grow on.
And remember that even through this last cycle of economic difficulties in 2007 2008 and 2009 the commercial corporate market is in a growth market.
That's because business people are still traveling.
And there is a lot of space there in travel.
There is space on B2B cards.
There's space on purchasing cards.
There's space on B2B flows and large cards.
All of those are what's inside our commercial business So just from a number point of view to give you some context.
For all of 2015 the commercial market actually grew at low double digits -- actually not a bad growth of all.
It did come down a little bit but still double digits in the fourth quarter.
So it is growing very healthy.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Your line is open.
Just a quick on the rebates line and with a little clarification if you could Martina on the percentage of revenue -- maybe you were talking about on confusion on some models.
But my real question is on just the services business.
The -- which I think you had said at your conference is 25% of revenue -- has much lower margin.
I was just wondering what your outlook is for the growth of that services business over your three-year time horizon and any thoughts on the margins in that business as well.
Okay so first of all from a rebates and incentive point of view I didn't give a percentage of growth.
What I did is I gave you a view on what the growth would be 2016 over 2015.
In 2015 we saw a growth rate in rebates and incentives around 20%.
I said for 2016 it will be just a little lower than that 20%.
Okay? So that's the growth rate and it's the 20% that you saw in 2015.
By the way that's and actual reported number.
So for the services business yes I tried to give you a few points back in September at the investor day saying that our core business is substantially 75% of the Company and the services business is about 25% of the Company.
All of those growth expirations that we have in services -- and you can actually see in the revenue line where we have most of the services in there -- it grows very very fast.
All of those expectations are actually embedded in our overall net revenue guidance.
So I am not splitting for you apart in terms of what our core business versus the service business does.
The other thing that we said in September and I have no different expectations at this point in time is that the services business while its lower in margin than what we have today than what we have in our core business that we do believe that over time there will be some margin improvement in the services business.
It's all the question of scale.
Right? That's one of the reason that it's a lower margin.
Although that's not the only reason.
It's also the nature of the business.
In some parts of it is more people intensive.
In some parts of it it's more technology.
Where it's more tech intensive it's more like our core business.
Where it's more people intensive it's a lower margin business.
And therefore as you build up a volume and scale on top of those businesses you get better revenue and better margins out of them.
That's what we are doing.
In fact our advisor consulting business in the six years that I have been in the Company I have seen Martina work it with the team there on improving the margin of that business through better utilization of people lower downtime of consultants creating centers of excellence essentially the steps that have been taken to improve that business.
So that is the kind of thing that is underlying our commentary on lower today on margin.
But we have every expectation of continuing to improve that margin over time.
Your last question comes from the line of Chris Donat from Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is open.
I'm going to ask one that's a little bit off the beaten track here.
But with the change in sanctions rules and laws for Iran and your experience you have had over the last few years in Burma or Myanmar can you comment on how long you think it might take to get to a business in Iran and with Iranian banks and if there is any meaningful revenue opportunity in the next 5 10 years? Next 5 10 years Chris? Yes.
Next one year? No.
So let me give you an example from Myanmar.
Myanmar was handled -- once the government of the United States opened up its relationship with Myanmar the removal of sanctions in Myanmar happened pretty quickly after that.
And companies like us and our competitors were able to go in and begin to first enable ATM networks and then enable acceptance and then enable issuance in the country.
With all that because Myanmar has a relatively underdeveloped payment system that entire thing is relatively slow.
Now Iran on the other hand has the payment system domestically merchants to accept electronic payments already.
It's not Myanmar in the form of being a completely cash economy.
So if you could plug and pay you could probably get quicker results than in Myanmar but the United States government is still to lift its sanctions.
You just saw that the Iranian president came out and signed a fairly large set deals on planes from AirBus -- hasn't even signed anything at Boeing.
That is all part of what is going on.
There has to be a whole change in the sanctions regime that allows companies like us and our competitors and banks to operate freely in Iran.
That has yet to be seen.
So I would say Iran more interesting because of a literate population with a relatively functioning electronic payment system.
But until the sanctions actually get lifted this is all very nice but we can't do very much.
Okay.
Questions done.
Closing comments.
So thank you all for those closing questions.
Let me give you a couple of closing thoughts.
You saw it come through in what Martina and I were saying.
We think we've navigated a tough economic environment this year particularly the foreign exchange.
And honestly the local currency tangent to your question -- that came at us even faster in the last two three months of the year.
We met you in September talked something about local currency.
By the time December came around it was a different picture.
December is self was a different picture from November and October.
That's how rapid the local currency movement vis-a-vis the dollar has been.
But you know what? We've navigated that and delivered strong results through a variety of prospective financially volume share growth bill innovation.
2016 look similar to 2015.
So we're going to stay very focused on executing our strategy.
We're going to try and play a defining role in the digital opportunity.
We're going to keep trying to innovate for the future grow revenues from both our core and our services businesses and work really hard to manage our expenses so we create the space for us to invest in our future.
The payment space I think remains a great place to be.
Our business continues to have strong momentum.
We're going to keep perusing profitable market share.
We're going to keep trying to drive the conversion of cash to electronic payments around the world.
I continue to believe that run rate is an enormous runway of growth.
We intend to maintain our leadership in the industry effort in digital payments in safety and security in financial inclusion.
And I am quite confident we can run the Company for growth and will try to deliver on our three-year objectives.
I just appreciate your ongoing support for the Company and for all of us.
And thank you for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.