Please stand by we’re about to begin.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Macerich Company First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Hello and thank you for joining us today on our first quarter 2011 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risks associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company’s press release and SEC filing.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come we believe that it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the investor’s section of the company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors; Ed Coppola President; and Tom O’Hern Senior Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Today we’ll be discussing the first quarter results our recent capital and acquisitions activity and our outlook for 2011.
During the quarter our fundamentals continue to improve.
Occupancy levels improved significantly retail sales had a very solid increase and we had good same-center NOI growth.
The releasing spreads were also a positive for the quarter.
During the quarter there was 289 000 square feet of lease assigned 177 deals.
Average new rent of $38.53 and a positive re-leasing spread for the period ended March 31 of 9.6%.
Mall occupancy was up 140 basis points closing the quarter at 92.5% that was down compared to the year-end number of 93.1% but that’s normal and that’s what we’ve seen the past 10 years without exception.
There’s always a little bit of a drop-off in the first quarter.
The real meaningful comparison here is how it stood versus a year ago.
The occupancy cost as a percentage of sales were up 13.3% for the trailing 12 months ended March 31.
Looking at FFO FFO diluted was $0.52 for the quarter compared to $0.66 for the quarter ended March 31 2010.
Negatively impacting FFO during the quarter was a $9 million pre-payment penalty on the early extinguishment of debt on a 9.1% participating loan on Chesterfield Towne Center.
Same-center NOI excluding lease termination and SFAS 141 was up 2.54% straight lining a rent drop $600 000 during the quarter SFAS 141 income was flat with the year before at just slightly less than S3 million and lease termination revenue was $2.1 million up slightly from the $1.5 million reported in the first quarter of last year.
The expense recovery rate improved to 93.6% compared to the rate of 92.3% for the full-year 2010.
Another sign of continuing tenant health was that bad debt expense dropped significantly it was down $2.5 million to $800 000 compared to $3.3 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Also during the quarter management company expenses they were up about $3.6 million.
This was virtually all due to severance payments that related to a right-sizing we did in the first quarter.
We had excess capacity in a number of departments so we reduced headcount by about 30.
As a result of that reduction we’ll be seeing savings for the balance of the year and going forward on the management company expenses.
Moving now to the balance sheet during the quarter we refinanced 29<sup>th</sup> Street.
We put $107 million loan in place which closed in January and that new loan bears interest in LIBOR plus 2.63%.
We also received a commitment on Los Cerritos Center that’s a seven-year fixed rate financing $200 million at 4.46%.
Capitola was another financing transaction where we made the decision to pay that loan off that was $33 million loan with a high coupon of 7.13% and that asset will remain unencumbered.
And lastly on the balance sheet we concluded on May 2 a new line of credit.
This is a unsecured line of credit there was very strong bank demand to be in the facility.
The terms and pricing are very attractive.
Today it’s a $1.5 billion line with a term of 4 years plus 1 year extension.
There’s a pricing grid but on our current leverage level to borrowing rate is LIBOR plus 200.
We’ve got some great banking relationships and that was reflected in this transaction.
It all came together in less than a month and it was oversubscribed.
It’s also important to note that we have the ability under this facility to increase the line to $2 billion at our choice.
Today our debt-to-market cap is 44% our average interest rate is 5.58% and our unhedged floating rate debt is 7.3% of our total market cap; our interest coverage ratio 2.21 times.
In this morning’s release we reaffirmed our FFO per-share guidance in the range of $2.78 to $2.94 that’s unchanged.
As a result of continued strong fundamentals and significant interest savings from a $400 million swap that expired in April plus recent debt reductions we expect to see about 26% of the annual FFO coming through the second quarter another 26% in the third quarter with the balance to roll through in the fourth quarter.
Looking now at tenant sales.
Tenant sales per square foot for the trailing 12 months came in at $449 that’s up 7.9% from the year ended March 31 2010.
Looking at the regional split on sales Arizona was again very strong up 6.7%.
The Central Region was up 4% Eastern Region up 4.2% Northern California combined with the Pacific Northwest was up 7% and Southern California was up 5.5%.
At this point I’d like to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom.
First of all I want to wish all the mothers out there happy Mother’s Day in the next few days.
And today a happy Cinco de Mayo to all of you have to think good thoughts after watching the Lakers not show up last night.
That was depressing.
Anyway Cinco de Mayo that’s actually an important day here in Los Angeles and besides it being date and day I would bring it up because when you think about it the population here in Los Angeles and Southern California is approximately 50% Hispanic today.
And then you think about growth in the United States over half of the growth in the United States over the next 40 years is projected to come from the Hispanic area.
And we are doing our best to cater directly to that population here in Los Angeles Arizona and other markets where we have strong concentration.
And in particular at Desert Sky today there’s large celebrations going on centered around Cinco de Mayo and I would encourage you to go to the Macerich property website for Desert Sky to take a look at that and see some of the activity that we have.
And I’ll touch a little bit more on Desert Sky here in a minute.
Towards the end of Tom’s comments he mentioned the renewal of our – actually a new line of credit that was put into place.
This is more than just a passing event.
If you think about it going back a year ago or so it would have been very hard to imagine that today we would be sitting here announcing to you that we have a $1.5 billion completely untapped line of credit with an accordion feature up to $2 billion; with a term that goes out to 5 years including options in the term of the line of credit.
Added to that we now have a very large separate from a line of credit unencumbered asset pool that is the result of using a lot of our cash over the last year to pay off debt on assets and use that as a cash management technique as well as to give us fire power to go forward.
So when you think about the fire power that we have going forward we’re in a terrific position.
And as we look at where we can deploy that fire power our first and foremost place is going to be in the development the redevelopment of selected acquisition arena.
Back in November we announced to you that we had very good clarity that our development and redevelopment pipeline as well as some potential acquisition activity and development inherent in those acquisition activities should approximate $750 million to $1 billion over a 5-year basis.
We said it would be heavily weighted towards the back end of that lifecycle.
As we look at it today we look at our current activities and we take measure of our recent acquisition of interest in Kierland and Desert Sky and Atlas Park.
As I look forward today I see that pipeline of development and redevelopments and acquisition to be much closer to 1 billion on the low side to around $1.5 billion on the probable side.
And we feel very comfortable with that and are confident that through a combination of development activity redevelopment activity and acquisitions that we’re going to continue to upgrade the quality of our portfolio.
During the quarter as Tom mentioned we increased our ownership of Kierland this is a great center in the Phoenix marketplace.
It does well over $600 a square foot about $650 a square foot.
We increased our ownership at Desert Sky and as you take a look at Desert Sky I would encourage you – I’m not going to go through all the details on it to go our Desert Sky property website and you can get actually a video as well as a lot of information on the new Mercado that we opened up at Desert Sky.
Desert Sky is a property that when we bought it – when we bought Westcor 9 years ago it was really a forgotten property.
But we’ve more than doubled the NOI of the property over the last period of time and now we’re taking it to its next level and its next generation with the opening of our Mercado in a vacant Mervyn’s box that we opened up in December 4 months ago.
It’s getting rave reviews the property has terrific traffic gains.
And again I encourage you to go to our property website to get more color on that Mercado.
We’ve identified about a dozen properties in our portfolio where our immediate trade area is approximately – is more than 50% Hispanic.
And Desert Sky is a prototypical example of how we intend to do a much better job of penetrating that market and serving that market.
We’re very confident that this is going to be an opportunity for us to cater to the mix that we have in our trade areas and to dramatically increase over time our operating results from those centers.
As we look up to the development and redevelopment pipeline our Tyson’s Corner project is just getting stronger and stronger in terms of its reception in the marketplace.
As most of you have been monitoring the residential and the office REITs that have large presences in the DC market I don’t have to tell you how strong that market is.
And we’re very excited about the timing and the opportunity to deliver our new – our expansion of Tyson’s Corner within office and residential component approximately 3 years from now.
So we’re very very positive in terms of how we see this pipeline.
And again we see the current size to be about $1 billion to $1.5 billion.
That’s a combination of developments redevelopments and acquisitions.
And now as we look at the – how that money will be deployed I think that it will most likely be deployed on a much more ratable level over a 5-year basis.
So on a weighted average fairly ratably over a 5-year basis.
Turning now to broader issues and broader outlooks I’d like to comment on Arizona in particular.
With our acquisition and increasing our ownership at Kierland as well as increasing our ownership at Desert Sky it’s appropriate for us to comment on Arizona.
<br>The Arizona marketplace as Tom mentioned leads the way for us in terms of comp tip comp sales and total sales growth.
We’ve got centers like Scottsdale Fashion Square and Arrowhead Kierland all approaching or in excess of $600 a square foot as well as Biltmore all showing very strong sales in the first quarter.
And I would make note as you probably heard on other mall calls that March was a surprisingly good month given the late Easter and early returns on April are also very good.
So the first quarter of this year’s sales look very strong and we’re very bullish on that.
Looking at the Arizona market it is now ranked as being one of the most affordable markets in the United States.
This is very good for the opportunity for job growth for external job growth for companies moving into Arizona.
83% of all the households in Phoenix right now are able to afford a medium priced home of $132 000.
So it is very affordable.
That’s something that when the bubble was in place 3 or 4 years ago Phoenix had gotten to the point to where it was less affordable it was stifling some of the external growth in terms of companies moving into Phoenix and Scottsdale Area.
But now with the correction in housing prices that has reversed itself.
And you’ve got major employers coming to Phoenix.
The examples that we’ve seen in the news include Intel announcing in February a $5 billion investment in a new Chandler facility that opens in a couple of years adding 1 000 jobs with average salaries over $122 000.
Ebay/PayPal is adding 300 employees to Scottsdale Macy is expanding their fulfillment center in Goodyear.
Amazon is expanding – is expanding their Goodyear facility by 900 000 square feet Sun Tech is expanding and opening their first U.S.
manufacturing plant in Goodyear in October.
It just did that in October.
There’s several solar-energy oriented companies that are coming to the marketplace led by First Solar at the old GM proving site in Mesa which has just announced that their investing $300 million into a new factory there creating 600 new jobs.
And the examples and list goes on of external growth from companies moving into the Arizona predominately the Phoenix/Scottsdale marketplace.
Housing starts have begun to bottom out.
I believe they are now currently in the 7 000 housing starts per-year range in Phoenix.
At the peak it had gotten up to 60 or 70 000 housing starts but most of our friends in the residential community are fairly confident we’ll return to the norm of 30 to 40 000 housing starts per year by the end of next year which will then create substantial growth in the construction industry and those related jobs.
<br>So we’re very bullish on where we see our Arizona portfolio and I would encourage you to keep an eye on what we’re doing there and on the growth opportunities that we see there.
Tom mentioned our leasing results moving to leasing now.
And in our annual report we pointed out that – look the retailers today have clearly defined their strategy to be full-priced stores outlet stores and then their Internet dot-com presence.
We are very well positioned with them in the full-price arena as we’ve mentioned in previous calls and the outlet arena.
We see that as a logical extension of many of our retailers part of their overall profitability.
We’re monitoring closely that arena and as we mentioned it’s quite likely that we will enter into that arena as time goes on here.
And then as you take a look at the dot-com presence of our retailers it is very clear to all of us observers that the dot-com presence of our retailers completely support their brick-and-mortar stores.
It also supports our shoppers.
It allows our shoppers to go ahead and do their comparison shopping before they come to the mall so that when they do come to the mall they’re able to shop more efficiently and we are very convinced that the Internet and the entire dot-com presence of our retailers is very much a positive for us in terms of extending their brand.
It’s a cheap form of marketing for our retailers.
And as we look forward for ourselves we are completely convinced that it makes the shopping experience for our shoppers our ultimate consumers a much more enjoyable and efficient process resulting in higher sales a better experience and better rep.
<br>With that I’d like to open it up for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question will come from Christy McElroy with UBS.
Hey good morning guys.
Art having raised your forecast for acquisitions development and redevelopment is most of the increase weighted towards acquisitions as you’re seeing more opportunities out there? Are you feeling better on the other hand about preleasing of development and redevelopment projects?  Really both the acquisitions that we’ve got out there of of particular like Atlas Park that will be significant redevelopment inherent in that.
And just in general we see the opportunity for some selected acquisitions here to be more realistic that we forecast six months ago.
You know six months ago we weren’t even forecasting increasing ownership at Kierland or Desert Sky or Atlas.
It’s really both and we’re also dusting off more and more of our redevelopment plans from the past and we are seeing there are given the leasing environment opportunities to consider some redevelopment activities in selected markets that really had been taken off of our radar screen 2 ½ years ago.
It’s a combination of both but the real message here is the pipeline is bigger it’s more visible and the expenditure will be much more ratable over the next five years.
Now the ratability is a function of some acquisitions than what we had forecasted six months ago and that’s the message we want to deliver.
Okay.
And then with regard to your management company expenses I understand it can be lumpy from quarter to quarter but I’m trying to understand exactly what’s the normal recurring expenses in that line? And if I think about the expenses versus what you’re recovering through management company revenues how would you characterize those net management company expenses? Is that property-level operating expenses or is that G&amp;A?  It’s property level.
I mean a lot of what you may think of as G&amp;A gets allocated to properties but that’s property-level expenses.
And the question has come up before.
How come that runs at a negative? That’s because the expense line includes 100% of the properties in pro rata share in the JVs but on the revenue side we don’t charge ourselves a management fee.
So that’s always going to run a negative.
But if you look at the expense side here a normal run rate is going to be $20 million to $22 million on expense per quarter.
So is that mostly attributable to property-level operating expenses? Why would that not be reflected in your same-store NOI calculation?  It is.
Oh it is? I thought you backed it out.
No.
The only thing that gets backed out Christy is if there is anything that is not same center it’s not comparable.
Okay.
At a property level if there is a management fee it may show up on these statements as a revenue but at that property it shows up as a management company expense.
And that is reflected when we calculate same center.
And moving on our next question will come from Quentin Velleley of Citi.
Good afternoon.
I’m here with Michael.
Hey guys.
Hey.
Just on the 30-person headcount reduction can you just talk a little bit more about that; what area that came from and if there’s been any changes to the organizational structure or any changes to the reporting lines?  Sure.
We can address that.
It really goes across lines it really just is a consideration of something that we feel that we need to do periodically now.
You know when we did our reduction in force two years ago as a necessity we learned that we need to do a better job of pruning from time to time.
And it’s really just part of our overall process trying to prune our portfolio both on the people side as well as the property side going forward.
So it cut across all lines; development marketing leasing all lines.
It’s a process of right-sizing as opposed to what we had done two years ago.
Organizationally we’re trying to continue to keep the organization lean and to operate with maximum speed and efficiency.
We think it’s helps us to do that.
It also helps us to flatten out some of the organizational structure.
And just going forward we think it’s better positions us.
It’s really something that we will be doing periodically and I think every company really needs to do it periodically otherwise if you wait then it gets to be more painful down the road.
And then just in terms of the same-store NOI I’d like to know if that excludes any additional leasing of Mervyn boxes.
Can you just give us an update on what’s happening with those additional Mervyn boxes that haven’t had any activity or haven’t had any activity on the previous call?  Well we’re down to a very small number Quentin of Mervyn’s boxes.
I think we’ve got seven or eight right now that are not either leased or have been sold and we’re working on deals on most of those.
You know they’re at a variety of places.
Most of those centers are not in our portfolio but it’s dwindled down to the point where it has a very small impact on us.
There’s one particular case we’re working with T.J.
Maxx on a potential deal.
Another case we’re working the Safeway on a potential deal.
But really those will have a minimal impact if any on earnings in same-center NOI when they come on line.
Michael Bilerman speaking.
Just a quick question.
I remember back in ’09 and I can’t remember if there’s something last year.
Some of the ventures you had done the partners had some warrants or options on stock.
I didn’t know if those were exercised or where that stands today in terms of our ownership?  Yeah there were two particular deals where there were warrants issued in the case of GI Partners which was the mall at Flatiron.
Those have been exercised and they’re in the share count and they have been for over a year now.
The others are outstanding and haven’t been exercised yet but they get factored into the diluted share count.
Okay.
Thank you.
And moving on we’ll go to Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Hi.
I’m curious you know you have this big line this big new line of credit and would you Tom continue to unencumbered assets and maybe put some of the mortgages on the line and then eventually do an unsecured note to take those out that kind of thing?  Well it’s certainly a possibility Rich.
I mean today we’ve got a couple more assets we plan to un-encumber this year when the prepayment window opens and that’s at Rimrock and Pacific View and when that’s done we’ll have about 95 million of NOI coming from unencumbered assets.
That certainly gives us capacity if we decide to go in and put mortgages on those.
Obviously as Art indicated we expected to be very active over the next five years so we felt that a $1.5 billion line was the right size and having the flexibility to pick it up to $2 billion gives us even more flexibility.
I mean we do have some converts that are maturing in 2012 and we kept that in mind when we structured the transaction.
The balance sheet today has a lot of capacity that’s for sure and there’s any number of ways we could proceed going forward.
Okay so would you – do you think you’d think about the unsecured route at all or is that not really something you’re interested in?  Well after seeing the response to the line of credit Rich there’s a very deep bank market for unsecured notes even on rated notes.
And we have no intention of going in and getting a rating but that does not mean that we would not – if the terms weren’t right and the pricing wasn’t attractive that would not preclude us from doing an unsecured bank note.
We’ve done that in the past pretty successfully and there’s a strong market for that right now.
Okay.
All right good.
Thank you.
And then when you guys look at the outlet center world are you in a mode where tenants Art are saying you know if you come up with something if you show us something we’d be interested because we’re interested in outlets or have you actually found maybe some sites that you think are interesting to you and you’re showing to tenants to see what they’re interests is?  Both.
So there’s a possibility you could be further down the road maybe then maybe I had thought originally here?  Well I never want to try and figure out where you’re – what you’re thinking now.
But yeah I’d say look we’re taking this very cautiously and we first started talking about this about nine months ago.
The one thing we are clear about is that the retailers are very clear in their strategy; full price outlet dot-com; three strategies.
You know with the vast majority of the focus on full price but the other two – distribution channels enhancing the profitability.
And we think that given our size with all of our retailers that we should have touching points with them in all three distribution channels.
And we do intend to do that we intend to support their dot-com strategies in various ways and to the extent that their outlet expansion strategies and our sites happen to coincide then we should support their growth strategies in those arenas too.
So look it’s something we take very seriously.
If it happens it will have been well thought out.
If it doesn’t happen you know it was never in our five-year business plan last year anyway.
But I think that there’s clearly an opportunity for some very select limited growth for us in this arena and I think that the retailers would welcome that if it was the right sites and if it was properly supported with our efforts and our focus and our intention.
Then if we do something no matter where it is whether it be Santa Monica Place delivering that quality of center in Santa Monica or if it’d be Desert Sky in Phoenix and delivering a center that caters to the Hispanic market there; whatever we do we’re going to serve our markets and that includes our retailers and their strategy and then the ultimate demographics.
So that’s the overall plan.
We’re feeling pretty confident that it’s an arena that we need to continue to explore very seriously.
I hope that answers your question.
Yes.
That’s good.
Thank you.
And then the last thing for me is with all the opportunities you guys have or that you’re looking at would you consider accelerating your asset recycling do some more dispositions at this point to fund some of that?  You know dispositions are not something that you can accelerate or decelerate unless you have a commodities product.
If you have a commodity product you know triple-net lease asset or something like that you can pretty much put it on the trading block and it will trade at a price.
Malls you know are a little bit more difficult on the disposition side.
Our guidance to you would be that over the next five years that we will dispose of my guess at least $500 million of assets.
They’ll be lower-quality assets well under $300 a square foot and if you think about a portfolio balancing act we see ourselves adding a billion to a billion-five investment into very high-quality retail centers either through acquisition expansion redevelopment or development.
And then we see ourselves disposing of say $500 million of assets that we consider to be non-core or that we don’t see our opportunity to have great growth in assets that generally are doing let’s say on average $250 a square foot.
That’s the master portfolio plan at this point in time.
All right.
Very good.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And moving on we’ll go to Craig Schmidt of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch   Hey Craig.
Hey thanks for taking the call.
My questions are on Santa Monica Place.
I wonder if you could tell me the size of True Foods Kitchen on the main floor and the size of the Market on the third floor?  Yeah I’d probably be guessing on True Foods.
I think it’s about 6 or 7 000 square feet.
They open May 9<sup>th</sup>.
Last night actually was their celebrity private soft opening.
It’s going to do great it’s right next door to Second Street Valet on the first level which will balance out our presentation by having a great food operator on the first level of the center.
And you know we’ve got great experience with Sam Fox we have multiple multiple restaurants with him with different concepts in the Arizona marketplace.
He’s a terrific restaurateur.
We have True Foods at Biltmore.
It’s a fabulous center and – restaurant.
And the Market Place is about 17 000 square feet give or take.
There’s a little over 20 vendors that are in there.
We’re really excited about that.
We think that has a potential of being really almost an anchor to Santa Monica Place and there’s a lot more information on the Market at Santa Monica on Facebook or our property website.
Instead of repeating everything you can see it there.
That’s where I would direct you.
Are you getting a lot of support from the foodies in LA given these developments?  Actually we just hosted on April 14 and 15 a two-day event on the third level of – which is – we’ve been holding back.
We’ve warehoused that of the old Macy’s building which is on top of Bloomingdale’s we hosted Artisanal LA their semiannual event.
I think we had 10 000 foodies through the event.
We probably had 100 or so vendors in there all organic food types of vendors and very much the foodie community.
We think that the restaurant and the food and the artisanal community is extremely excited about what we’re doing at Santa Monica.
You know it is really very connected to the Santa Monica farmer’s market and there’ll actually be a vendor I think that will have the best of the farmer’s market.
There will be a cooking school that will have chefs famous chefs in Southern California demonstrating how to prepare certain foods that they have bought that morning let’s say at the farmer’s market just two blocks away.
So the foodies are really excited about what’s happening here.
And that’s really – when you think about our demographic for Santa Monica Place that’s part of our core demographic when you think about who we’re catering to.
So it’s going to be great.
Okay.
And then just finally the space on top of Bloomingdales do you still plan to convert that to smaller shop space?  No it was really never small-shop space.
We’re not sure what we’re going to do with it.
Right now we have set it up so that it is available for events and we’re hosting events there which is driving traffic to the third level.
So we’re using it as an event center and with that it will support the restaurants on the third level as well as drive traffic to the center and it’s really just sitting there in inventory for us to decide what we want to do with it long term.
And having it as an event center could be what we do long term.
Taking the market place and turning it into a much grander plan could also be what could happen where we would expand the Market Place into that third level which is 45 000 square feet of space right across from the Market Place.
And I would remind you that that third level is right at the corner of 4<sup>th</sup> and Colorado overlooking the new Rail Station that opens four years from now which is the Light Rail that will connect Santa Monica to LA Live Downtown.
Not that there’s going to be that many people go to see the Lakers games probably four years from now we’re very excited about it.
It’s an unbelievable location and we’re really keeping our optionality by using it as an event center right now.
And people going into it right now there’s views two panoramic views of the city looking east and south and they just can’t believe the space.
So it just really enhances the feel of that third level and it becomes more and more and more a destination which is really what we’re looking for.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And our next questions will come from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Yeah hi.
Going back to capital employment you talk about being more bullish on acquisitions and should we think about that as similar to what we saw with Kierland and Desert Sky where you’re buying out partner interest or are you thinking a little bit more about just pure third-party acquisitions?  Yeah I’m not sure.
It’s really just in the overall mix.
Let us let the hand play out for you.
We just wanted to give you visibility into what we see so we can give you good visibly that you know six months ago we told you 750 million to about a billion of development redevelopment and maybe some acquisition activity over the next five years.
Now we’re raising those number substantially.
And part of the confidence is due to the acquisitions that we just did and there may be some more coming down the pipeline.
But let the hand play out if you will please.
Okay.
And then thinking about the development and redevelopment components of that you talked about the pipeline – the timeline being a little flatter over the five-year period.
And you’ve talked about the other Tyson’s deal obviously but can you maybe bucket some of the redevelopments that we could see earlier in that five-year phase and then the ones that are likely to be later?  Yeah the redevelopments won’t be accelerated beyond – or the developments of what we’ve already talked about.
So what will fill up the bucket in the next year or two would be in the acquisition arena most likely.
Okay got it.
Development activity associated with acquisitions ala Atlas Park for example but there may be other acquisitions that are out there that could have some development components to them.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And moving on our next question will come from Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O’Neill  Hey Alex.
Hey.
I guess it’s still morning out there so good morning.
On the Phoenix I don’t think I heard you mention the Goodyear Mall.
I think on the last call you mentioned starting that mall development later this year.
I just want to see if that’s still on track or if that was more sort of a broad-based comment that you intend to restart the development out there and it wasn’t meant to target a specific you know date?  As I rattled through the employers that are expanding you probably took note that five of them were in Goodyear six of them actually.
Right.
So there’s a lot of activity there.
It remains the most underserved market in the entire Phoenix MetroPlex.
So you know we’re still very confident that we’ve got a great site the retailers are still very interested in it.
We’ve said previously that we see that most likely as being out there three years from now but you know definitely in the next three-to-five year horizon but I’d say closer to three.
It looks very solid it’s just a question of when we decide to pull the trigger.
And I think we did indicate earlier that it would be quite possible that we would pull the trigger by the end of this year and we’ll see how it goes.
It is still quite possible to do that.
The good signs are on the ground at Goodyear and there’s a situation where the concerns that some people have about the dot-com world I think four of the six companies that I mentioned that were expanding in Goodyear are expanding their national or international distribution and fulfillment centers for their dot-com arenas and employing lots of people generating a lot of activity.
It cuts both ways.
Okay.
And then switching coasts your comments about Atlas Park and major redevelopment I just want to get a sense of how it’s – now that you’ve had the asset for a few months how it’s going – if you think it’s going to be sort of a complete scrape keep the garages or if you think that maybe you can make the existing layout work.
I may have misspoke if I said major redevelopment associated with Atlas Park.
I do see some development activity associated with that but most likely more in the remerchandising arena.
The more significant major redevelopment or development activities that could be associated with an acquisition might relate to some other opportunities out there that we’re looking at not necessarily Atlas Park.
What we’re going to do at Atlas Park will most likely be confined to the four walls that are there of the buildings today but it will be a significant change for the merchandising mix we think going forward.
Okay.
Final question is as you focus more on the Hispanic market just sort of curious if there’s you know any South American or Mexican or other similar retailers that you may bring north of the border to bring to the 12 centers that you spoke about?  You know we’re kind of still working in that arena.
And – we were one of the first companies if not the first company to do business with a department store based here in Los Angeles La Curaco and we know have a couple of locations with them and they’re a great anchor to our Panorama mall as well as Desert Sky.
And Los Angeles Southern California is a great hot bed.
We don’t have to look much beyond this market for retailers that do well in Hispanic markets.
So really this is where we look and this is really the breeding ground right here in Southern California.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we’ll go to Cedric Lachance of Green Street Advisors.
Hi.
Just to stay on the Hispanic theme are there more centers where you think you can move to serving the Hispanic population a little more either in your portfolio or actually more as an acquisition target where you can reposition the assets?  Clearly in our portfolio we’ve identified that we can do a better job in about a dozen of our properties and we’re taking it a little slowly here with Desert Sky to try and perfect the model.
A lot of it has to do with marketing and the way that you market the property and if you – I’m not going to go into it right now but it’s all sitting right there on Facebook and our property website on Desert Sky and just some news about what we’re doing marketing wise there to give you a clue we really do see marketing as being a virtual anchor to a Hispanic center and we think that a number of our centers ranging from Inland Center to Pacific View Ventura to Northridge in Salinas Stonewood Downey Panorama there’s about a dozen of them in our portfolio where we have a predominance of our population well over half in our trade area is Hispanic.
And we’re just not doing as good as job as we should be doing and there’s opportunities to do better and there’s opportunities to create a property that is much more focused on its community.
I’m very confident that this is going to be something that’s going to reflect itself in good operating results for us.
It could reflect itself in growth for the company outside of the properties that we own today.
The interesting thing I would also make note of is don’t get too focused on sales per foot in centers that cater here to these trade areas.
Desert Sky for example does under $300 a square foot.
But I can tell you that it’s a very vibrant center that sales are on a definite uptick and more important rents are on a definite uptick and NOI is on a definite uptick.
So we see this as something – we’re based here in the melting pot of the world with the predominance of our population being Hispanic.
And again as I mentioned in my earlier remarks over half the growth in the U.S.
is going to come from the Hispanic market.
So it would be crazy for us not to say to ourselves we can do a lot better job at targeting that customer.
And that’s really what we’re trying to do.
Okay.
And then in regards to the credit quality of the tenant base and your ability to push OCRs how do you underwrite your tenants and how far can you push the OCRs?  Of our portfolio? When you look at Hispanic-focused centers.
You can’t look at that metric because of the sales number and the profit margins.
So sales can have higher profit margins that would be apparent to others and you can have costs of occupancies that on the surface appear to be high and yet the tenants are definitely willing to still pay the rent which means they’re making money.
Okay.
And then just going back to the entire portfolio what percentage of your portfolio currently is on the short-term leases?  Tom do you want to address that?  Yeah today what I would call very short-term between six months and a year is about 5%.
Then if you take the next segment which is shorter term than normal of beyond a year but less than three years that’s probably another 20%.
And we think that that’s been shrinking over the last year.
A lot of those deals were done in ’08 and ’09 and we’ll see those burning off over the next couple years and get to a more normal level where we have probably less than 10% less than the three years.
Okay.
And in terms of the rent differential how far – where are those rents in the short-term leases versus your full-price market rent?  Well I’ll speak to the 5% that we really call temporary occupancy.
It hits our occupancy number and that number at a low is 2% at a high is probably 6%.
We’re at 5% today.
And on average those are about half of our average rent.
So if our average rent is 44 on those type of tenants it tends to be about half of that.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And moving on we’ll go to Ben Yang of Keefe Bruyette and Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Hi good morning.
Following on an earlier question of possibly taking back share of some of the malls you joint ventured back in 2009 do you have any thoughts on what it would take to buy your partner at maybe a Queens Center just to kind of give an idea of how far CAP rates have come in since the crisis back in 2009? And I ask because I would imagine you have greater insight since you still own and operate those particular properties as well.
Was the question what has happened to CAP rates on malls like Queens? Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> I’m just curious if you were to have those conversations with your partner I mean is it 200 basis point lower than what you sold it for? Is it more than that? Is it less than that? Just to kind of get an idea of maybe a market for what high-quality malls would be today.
That’s a fair question.
First of all look our partnership with Cadillac Fairview there at Queens is a long-term partnership and that particular joint venture had been talked about for six years prior to the time that it occurred and we view it as a long-term partnership.
So you know please don’t think by any stretch that there would be any conversation about buying that partnership out because there is not.
They’re a terrific partner.
But if you want to look at the joint ventures that we did the three big joint ventures that we did a couple of years ago I’d say CAP rates have easily reduced they’ve come down 200 250 basis points on average.
If you were to market the centers and sell 100% of the centers today I don’t know the number could be 250 easily from where they were a couple of years ago.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> You mention your partner at Queens being a long-term holder how about your partners at Flatiron and some of the other properties that you joint ventured?  You know we value those as – we were very careful in selecting our partners there.
And each of our partners that we brought into the company either by expanding the current investment in properties with us or bringing them in as a new partner have huge appetites for more growth with us.
And you know those were not sales they were strategic relationships.
We have great relations with all of our partners including the ones that we expanded or brought in new in 2009.
So we view them I may have mentioned it in previous calls you know look our private equity stakeholders are our partners and there are times that they are extremely important to the health of this company and they were vital to the survival of Macerich in 2009.
And they’re very strategic and helpful as we think about new business.
We’ve had partners that helped us source new deals so we view it as an asset to the company and definitely part of our long-term capital plan capital stack and method of doing business.
I hope that answers your question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> It does.
It’s helpful.
And then given the higher Macerich guidance are they approaching you about teaming up with potential acquisitions similar to what you did with Atlas Park or is that not the conversation you’re having today?  We’ve got a lot of – several several billion dollars of appetite amongst our existing partners to grow their business with us.
I’m not going to try to list them all because I don’t want to leave anybody out but virtually all of our existing partners want to do new business with us.
They’ve got plenty of capital to do it it’s just a question of finding the right opportunities.
That’s just a question of going forward.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay and just a final question.
The several billion dollars of appetite how far down the quality spectrum does that appetite go to? I mean is there – down to $300 a foot? Is it only 400 a foot and above in terms of the sales? What does that look like?  On a broad market basis the institutional capital today is willing to go into the B markets whether it be B markets or B sales as measured by folks like Green Street.
So you know the $300-a-foot assets.
Are there institutional investors that are willing to invest in those today? It appears that there are which is something that we had predicted would happen back in January of last year and it hasn’t – it has not been self-evident or reported in the marketplace yet but I see it happening.
Our current partners if we can – if say look we have a business plan to make money off of a $300-a-square-foot group of assets they would be there with us all day long.
But that has not been our recent focus and it’s not really our current focus.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Moving on we’ll go to Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Co.
Yes good morning.
A couple of questions.
Could you just give us an update on the status with the foreclosures on Valley View as well as Granite Run?  Sure Tayo.
On Valley View it’s been in the hands of the receiver for nine months.
It’s currently being marketed and once that is sold it will be officially off our books.
We are not investing any additional cash into that project.
We’re showing a small maybe $500 000 a quarter negative accrual operating accrual on that.
That’s the only real impact on the results for the quarter and we expect that to be gone either in the second quarter or the third quarter.
In terms of Granite Run that has been in the hands of the servicer.
That’s a joint venture property that was managed by our partner.
They made the recommendation we concurred it went back to the servicer and there was a Deed in Lieu completed on April 1 or 2.
As of the beginning of the second quarter that is no longer on our books.
And has that impacted the number in any way?  There will be a gain on early extinguishment of debt on that one in the second quarter on Granite Run.
Okay.
that’s the first question.
Then the second question can you tell us about the situation with Anchor Blue in your mall?  Yeah we talked about that a little bit on the last call I believe.
We had a total of 20 Anchor Blues about 112 000 square feet.
And quite a bit of that has already been spoken for.
I think about 1/3 of that is already been spoken for.
A lot of the rest of it is in negotiation.
We’re talking with people.
We’ve got a couple deals with Tilly’s.
We’re talking to Papaya for one K-Momo for another.
Limited on another Joppa for three Rue 21.
There’s been a lot of activity and generally speaking it’s pretty good space.
On average they were paying a rent of about $25 a foot far less than our average.
So we expect to do pretty well on the releasing of that space.
Okay.
Are you expecting the new rents to be higher?  Yes.
And then the management company operating expense is post the restructuring what kind of savings are you expecting to get?  Well the 3 million that I mentioned was roughly equal to one year’s salary.
So we’ll see about 750 000 in savings a quarter.
Thank you very much.
All right thank you.
And next we’ll go to Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning guys.
Going back to the pipeline discussion just given how rents have trended and things and also material costs I was just wondering if your yield expectations have changed at all on the development side of that pipeline?  Could you repeat that please? I'm just wondering on the development side of the capital deployment plan have there been any changes in your expected yields there given how rents have trended as well as how material costs may be trending?  I’d say overall things are improving the overall outlook in terms of development returns for many many different reasons.
You touched on a couple of them yes construction costs getting to be more reasonable in certain areas.
Just broad markets getting better.
I mentioned in my early comments I mean you all cover the office and the residential company that do a lot of business in Washington D.C.
so you know how hot that market is.
And we’ve got our pro rata share 50% of a $400 million development of an office and residential tower that’s going to be delivered in three years.
That market’s on fire in D.C.
So those are macro indicators.
I’d say you know trending up but still in the 8 to 10% targeted returns on development redevelopment that we’ve talked about back in November.
But looking better.
Okay thank you.
And then just a couple more run rate questions.
In terms of the income tax benefits last quarter I think that was discussed as maybe 5 million for the year from NOL burn offs and it looks like you’ve burn through most of that already.
I’m just wondering if that outlook has changed at all? Should we expect more benefits going forward?  You know it’s generally a relatively small number per quarter you know 1 to 2 million is what we rode on average.
If I had to put something for a run rate I think I’d put 1 million and that would likely be a little conservative.
Okay.
And then I know we talked about the management company expenses booked in the quarter but the G&amp;A line itself also looked like it was kind of elevated relative to where you talked about run rates in the past at about 4 to $6 million range.
I just wonder if you could provide some color on what was going on there?  Well this first quarter could be heavy because you’ve got your 10-K you’ve got a lot of your costs you’ve got your audit costs things like that that are pure G&amp;A.
So that’s – that number isn’t going to be flat through the quarter.
If you take a look at it versus the first quarter 2010 we’re virtually right on top of the first quarter of 2010 at 7.5 million last year versus 7.6 this year.
You know through the course of the year that may be 20 to 22 million but the first quarter is going to be the highest quarter and it historically has been.
Okay thank you very much.
And now I’ll turn it back to Art Coppola for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining us.
Another gentle reminder get out there and shop for Mother’s Day.
For those of you visiting Southern California please come see our new market at Santa Monica Place.
It’s opening May 20<sup>th</sup>.
Those of you that are going to see us at the ICSC in a couple of weeks we look forward to seeing you there.
Our meeting schedules are very strong and we look forward to seeing you soon.
Thank you very much.
And that does conclude today’s conference.
We’d like to thank you all for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Macerich Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this presentation is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the prepared remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions)  I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Jean Wood.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for joining us today on our second quarter 2011 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risks associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company's press release and SEC filing.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC's regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the investor's section on the company's website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors; Ed Coppola President; Randy Brant Executive VP Real Estate; and Tom O'Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Jean.
Today we'll be discussing second quarter results our recent capital and acquisition activity and our outlook for the rest of 2011 including our revised guidance.
During the quarter our fundamentals continued to improve occupancy levels improved retail sales had a very sold increase and same-center NOI was positive for the six quarter in a row.
The releasing spreads also showed good increases.
We signed leases during the quarter for 247 000 square feet that was 161 deals average new rent was $41.60 a foot.
The average releasing versus expiring spreads on the trailing 12 month basis was positive 11.6%.
The occupancy level increased 50 basis points over a year ago.
It rose to 92.3% compared to 91.8% a year ago.
Average rent in the portfolio stands at $43.74 that is up from $42.31 a year ago.
Occupancy cost as a percentage of the sales on a consolidated basis including JVs at pro-rata was 13.2% for the trailing 12 months.
Looking at FFO for the quarter FFO per diluted share was $0.47 for the quarter compared to $0.57 for the quarter ended June 30 2010.
Negatively impacting FFO during the quarter was a $35.7 million impairment charge on Shoppingtown Mall.
Adding that to the FFO it was an adjusted FFO per quarter of $0.72 per share.
The operating metrics are good including same center NOI excluding terminations in (inaudible) 141 being up 2.94% compared to the second quarter of last year.
As key components of that 90% of our leases have CPI increases built in.
So January 1<sup>st</sup> of this year must get those CPI increases kicked in and may average 1.3%.
In addition you’ve got the positive impact of the releasing spreads that we saw through 2010 growing through our same center NOI numbers and that was a pickup of about 0.8% plus you add to that the gain from occupancy pick up of another 0.8% and that covers most of the 2.494 same center NOI increase.
Lease termination revenues including the JVs were at $2.5 million compared to $1.5 million during the quarter ended June 30 2010.
Looking for the balance of year we still expect to see approximately 12 million of lease terminations revenues for the year.
Bad debt expense for the quarter was up about $700 000 and $2.1 million net compared to $1.4 million in 2010.
However if you take a look at the full year through June we stand at $3 million for the six months ended June 30 2011 versus $4.8 million in the six month period a year ago.
Management company expense was down at $21 million compared to $24.4 million in the second quarter of last year however you really need to look at your paid management company expense which stands at $46.7 million compared to $46.6 million a year ago.
The second quarter difference was primarily due to timing differences as we noted in our first quarter call because of right sizing in which there was severance payment that happened in the first quarter of 2011 and conversely we saw the benefit of the reduced headcount affecting our numbers in the second quarter of 2011.
Also during the quarter we had from a joint venture gain on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $7 million that happened on April 1<sup>st</sup> and we mentioned that on our first quarter call and that offsets the $9 million of loss on early extinguishment of debt we saw from the Chesterfield Town Centre pay off that happened late in the first quarter.
Looking now on the balance sheet we got additional loan pay offs in the quarter including $83 million loan at 7.2% interest rate on Pacific View Mall and again in July early July we paid off $40.2 million loan on Rimrock that was at 7.6% interest rate both assets are now unencumbered.
With those pay offs we’ve got 13 unencumbered assets that throw off about $93 million in NOI.
So we could very comfortably in today’s market borrow on a non recourse basis $750 million to $800 million on those assets.
On May 11 2011 we had a $39 million non-recourse loan on Shoppingtown Mall mature and is currently in maturity default.
The company is negotiating service – at this time the ultimate resolution is uncertain however as a result of that maturity default we’ve recorded a $35.7 million impairment charge on that asset for the quarter ended June 30 2011.
Today our debt to market cap is 43% our average interest rate is 5.13% and our interest coverage ratio for the quarters is 2.24 times.
In this morning’s earnings release we also issued new guidance on FFO and the new range with adjusted FFO which excludes the impairment is 2.84 to 2.92 in the midpoint of 2.88.
That’s up from 2.78 to 2.94.
The reason we tighten the range is some of the uncertainties like lease termination payments which are uneducated assumption at the beginning of the year become more clear as the year goes on and also we’ve factored in the accretion from the recently acquired fashion outlets of Niagara Falls which Art will talk about in a minute or two.
Shipping out of tenant sales mall tenant sales per square foot were 4.58 for the 12 months ended June 30 2011.
That’s up 9% compared to a year ago when the trailing 12 sales per foot was at 4.20.
Looking at it by region based on total sales the Arizona region for quarter was up 6.4% central region was up 5.6% the eastern region is up 7.6%.
Pacific Northwest 5.4% and southern California up 6.5%.
At this point I would like to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom.
Welcome to the call.
As you can see from the results that we’ve reported we continue to have a very strong year.
As Tom has outlined our balance sheet is continuing to improve with its capacity which is enhanced by the recently revised new five year line of credit revolver that we have and we’ve been building up a significant amount of an unencumbered asset pool that would give us fire power to take advantage of the opportunities in the future certainly one of the opportunities that we recently were able to take advantage of was our acquisition of the fashion outlets of Niagara Falls which I’ll talk about in a few minutes.
In looking at the portfolio itself leasing continues to be strong.
The environment is very good sales are good our retailers are making a lot of money.
As you look at where our portfolio stands today compared to two years ago about two years ago in September of 2009 the sales of our tenants had pretty much bottomed out from the significant decline that all retailers starting in September of 2008.
And we basically – we feel that by the end of this year we will be back at sales levels that will approximate the sales levels that we were at before we entered into that depression that we entered into in fall of 2008.
As Tom outlined our regional malls averaged $458 a square foot today with strong comp sales increases.
If you slice that up into pieces our top 20 malls in our portfolio average $630 $631 per square foot.
Dropping down to our top 50 malls in our portfolio those top 50 if those were the only malls we owned average $502 a square foot and then including all of our malls together they average $458 per square foot.
Our top 20 malls which average $631 a foot generate just under half of our total NOI in our company at 46%.
Our top 50 malls which average $502 a square foot generated a little over 82% of our NOI.
And this is indicative where we stand in our portfolio and I shared these numbers with you because as you remember about a year ago I shared with you the fact that our portfolio currently was generating a little over 80% of its NOI from what we consider to be fortress assets and that our goal over time is to increase that percentage of NOI that comes from fortress assets or A-quality assets to something well into the mid to high 90s and we intend to do that through accommodation of acquiring powerful centers expanding existing centers of ours that are already powerful centers and making them even bigger and more powerful.
Developing Class A properties and then as time goes on disposing of assets or pruning our portfolio.
While we’ve not done a significant amount of pruning in the last year it is still very much in our radar screen and we’re watching carefully what’s happening in the B mall market place and even the C Mall market place and it’s clear to us that capital is taking a look and recognizing that given the scarcity of product on a risk adjusted basis that there are significant rewards to be achieved from investing in the quality malls.
And then when you add to that the fact that the debt markets have improved to the point to where these properties are able to support relatively high loan to value debt levels either through traditional loans or CMBS loans it creates an environment where I am convinced we will have the opportunity to monetize some of our B and C malls and achieve the long term goals that we announced a little over a year ago which is to tape our portfolio to a point to where something in the mid 90% of our total income is coming from class A fortress high barrier to entry real estate.
And that’s our goal that’s one of the lessons that we learned from the recession – the depression of 2009 is that those type of assets perform the best in downturns.
We’ve also learned when we look at our NOI that our strongest NOI performers over a long history of time are the powerhouse properties that we owned.
We can take a property that is generating insignificant amount of NOI and generate huge increases like Scottsdale Fashion Square a Tysons Corner a Washington Square Cerritos properties like that.
On the other hand we found over time that the B and the C malls that generate lesser amounts of income and are in secondary markets while they are very safe and secure investments from many different angles we just can’t generate the same double digit growth because you just don’t have the dynamics available to you in the market place and when you do have the dynamics available to you competition can tend to occur in any number of different format.
So that’s our strategy at a portfolio level.
In terms of how we’ve been implementing that strategy as you saw in this quarter we’re able to enhance our ownership Class A high quality high productive malls in a couple of ways.
One that we were able to increase our ownership that Arrowhead and Superstition Mall we’re all had in super mall by executing a tray with general growth properties where we traded five Mervyn’s stores plus some cash for a one-third interest that they had owned historically in Arrowhead Mall and Superstition Mall they were a passive investor in those two malls and were the great regional malls that – and Arrowhead in particular is a very very strong desire and Superstition is probably more of a B type of property from a sales per foot or any other viewpoint.
It wasn’t a core investment for them because they had inherited that investment.
So it made sense for them to liquefy made sense for us to increase our ownership.
We did it and it's part of our goal and our method of getting to that long term goal that I’ve enunciated.
The other really key event that happened that we announced a couple of days ago is they are consistent with the guidance that we have carefully been giving to you over the course of the last one year where we started one year ago today and said we are going to carefully look at the outlook business and if you take a look at all of the team leads that we ask you to read – we gave you strong indication to believe that we had decided last quarter that it was definitely an arena that we are going to move into and that we are going to move into it and we predicted for you that look at the end of five years from now my guess is we will own somewhere between five and ten very strong fashion outlet malls.
Because it's a natural progression for us we have had great reception from retailers and we looked at this and we’re able to capitalize on a relationship to acquire one of the – one of the top  tier outlet malls located in Niagara Falls we can get into the characteristics of the property I’m sure on the call but it's fashion outlets of Niagara Falls it’s a property that generates over $650 square foot it's enjoyed dramatic sales increases over the last five years due to a combination of enhanced marketing as well as the relationship of the Canadian and the U.S Dollars but we also see an opportunity because of the tenant demand that we know that we have today for an increased enhancement to the productivity of the center and an increase in the NOI from the center with significant NOI increases available to us given the fact that our cost of occupancy as a percentage of sales at this center is something in the neighborhood of 7% for the mall tenant and a little bit over 8% to 9% basically for the non-mall tenants that we have here we think there is a great opportunity at this level of productivity to generate good rep bonds going forward.
We have retained AWE Talisman to stay onboard with us and own the property over the last five years and done the leasing marketing management of it.
This is the same group that we retained to join us in the development of the fashion outlets of Scottsdale and they would be working with us here year as we take Niagara on to the next level and we built in earn out incentives into the economics of the transaction where if they’re able to generate significant increases in NOI over the next three years from Niagara Falls they are able to generate out of another 18 million give or take over the $200 million of consideration that we paid after closing itself.
The cap rate on the – if I had to characterize the cap rate on the year now which I know you’ll be interested in asking it probably is in the area 7.5 on the year itself but we see significant increases available here.
We’ve elected to align our interest with AWE Talisman.
They are a recognized name in the outlet industry not a big name but a quality name retailers know well and they trust and we are going to be using them here as well as we’ve got them working with us in Scottsdale.
We announced it in Scottsdale that we were going to develop a fashion outlet center at Scottsdale a lot of week before ICSC.
And that was extremely well received at ICSC.
We’re currently in the process of discussing the project with numerous tenants who are taking inventory of the interest.
We’ve been developing leasing plan and a sizing parameters based upon the demand that we have and this is a center as we said in previous calls we have very high hopes for we think we have a opportunity for a really high performer in the fashion outlet world and we’re very excited about pursing that.
On the development side we see great prospects over the next five years that we made very good progress over the last quarter.
As we’ve indicated to you we see about a $1 billion pipeline of development and redevelopment opportunities available on our pro rata share to us in the company over the next five years.
The most visible of that right now would be Tyson’s Corner where we are proceeding with our office and residential expansion.
The reception we have in the market there we’ve engaged the Hines (ph) Organization as our key developer on the office and we’re engaging a local very strong residential developer to lead the way for us on the residential we’re in the process of picking a flag on the hotel (inaudible) for the hotel and we’re very bullish on that.
And of course the fashion outlets of Scottsdale is in our pipeline which will be something that will definitely occur over that five year period.
Beyond that within the pipeline you have a Estrella Falls as well as a couple of other projects that we’re looking at within the expansion arena within our existing portfolio as well as the possibility of one or two projects that we’re looking at where we may buy a project from another entity and taking it to (inaudible) and expand them.
So we feel very good about where we stand.
We are exactly where we want to be and at this point in time we’d like to open it up for your questions.
Operator? Yes sir (Operator Instructions) And we’ll first go to Craig Schmidt with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
I just wanted to focus a little bit on Niagara Falls outlet center.
I guess when I look at the size the occupancy and the productivity I’m coming up with a pretty high cap rate.
And I guess there's two things obviously I don’t know.
Is the occupancy cost very low on this asset or is the sales per square foot somehow not include all the properties in the 526 000 square feet.
Well the cap rate I can share with you is if you were going to use one I would tell you it’s got a seven handle on it on the initial purchase and I mentioned to you that it's more in the mid seven.
And the occupancy cost as a percentage of sales ranges between 7% for mall tenants to 9% for some of our non-mall tenants.
But it is a low occupancy cost as a percentage of sales.
It’s high sales level.
Those are for likely tenants under 10 000 feet.
But we see good upside there but the cap rate on the purchase I would play it flat out as around 7%.
Thank you.
And we will continue on and hear from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Yeah hi two questions.
One to get to the 5 to 10 outlet centers over the next five years I mean what do you think the split is going to be between purchasing or developing because it looks like – well basically you have done (inaudible) so far.
Yeah.
Let’s see how it goes.
Let’s see how it goes.
I feel very confident in those numbers and one thing that I would add as another category would be an reuse of one of the properties that made switch-ons today.
So one or more of the properties that made switch ons today to be converted to either a partial or even a full outlet center.
Let it play out.
Clearly I think there is – beyond Scottsdale there is another development opportunity that’s imminent in the pipeline but we need to finalize some conversations related to that and there are in fact couple of other I would say a little bit longer term development opportunities that we are looking at as well as some potential acquisition opportunities.
But at this point in time we have announced Niagara Falls we have announced the fashion outlets of Scottsdale.
I have indicated that there is a development opportunity that is imminent that we should be announcing hopefully before the end of the year.
And I feel comfortable that at the end of five years we will be in that zip code of 5 to 10 properties.
The major message is we are cautiously going to be in the business very carefully in really a small way compared to our overall asset base.
At most I would guess that the outlet business will be 10% to 15% I don’t know in that region of our asset base.
But it's something we should enter into and when it's 10% to 15% over what we have today you are adding maybe even as many as more than five centers some of those development through the pipeline over and above what we have in the traditional regional mall area.
On our small base that’s real growth.
You mentioned the growing cap rate on this is about 7% on Niagara.
I mean for a regional mall and an outlet center hypothetically that have comparable sales what do you think the cap rate differential should be? I am not going to comment on that.
You guys know how you treat – I mean you know what the reported cap rates are on the outlet centers that recently traded and there is very few but there hasn’t been a class A regional mall that’s traded any time recently.
We are very happy with the deal that we made.
Niagara we think it is a fair price from both sides but you know how the street values outlets versus regional malls.
Some of the outlet owners at higher multiples than the regional mall owners.
Okay.
And last question.
Tom comment on about 12 million of lease term was that for the balance of the year or 12 million for the full year.
And then considering that you have only gotten I think about 4 million so far year-to-date can you just talk about where you are generally seeing the back half of the year lease term coming from types of tenants? Yeah.
Mike the 12 million was our assumption for the full year and there was a range that was part of the reason we had a wide guidance range we’ve got a lot more clarity today and you are right year-to-date was about 4.5 million we’ve got a couple of deals out there that we are working on right now so we’ve got a little bit of clarity and we are comfortable with the balance to get us to 12 million or come through in the next two quarters.
Okay.
Great thank you.
We will continue on to Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good afternoon.
On the – you mentioned pruning the portfolio and how that’s still a priority and you are watching what everyone else is doing I mean – you also then broke out kind of top 20 top 50 I mean should we assume that what’s not in the top 50 or a big chunk of that is up for pruning or you quantified the number of assets that you think might qualify are they sort of geographically dispersed and not in your top markets or how we should think about that? Sure you know there are 20 properties in our top 70 that are not in the top 50 right? So the top 50 do $500 a square foot there is another 20 properties that are sub $400 foot type centers and sub $300 foot centers.
I would say you know over time as many as half of those or ten or so would be candidates for pruning Okay great.
And then just can you give an update on the … I do want to emphasize that from a time table viewpoint that would be pruning only on an opportunistic in a strategic way for us we don’t feel compelled to do any of that pruning.
But as we look at where we want to be five years from now in terms of the overall quality of our portfolio the guidance we’ve given is look with the size of our company we can get to almost a 100% of our income coming from assets because we don’t own that many assets that need to be pruned and between a combination of pruning and in addition you can get to a place that is a very unique place in the market place and end up with a portfolio that is extremely high barrier to entry that should perform very well in tough times and extremely well – should perform satisfactorily in tough times and extremely well in good times go ahead and cut shot.
I was just thinking on that.
So you do where you sort of down envision doing like a Westfield type thing where you try to market the portfolio.
Let's see how it goes.
We need to look at – I think it's going to be instructed to all of us the process that Westfield is going through and I’m agnostic as to what that result would be.
I am a big believer that you know the B malls of the world are still very good investments and that there are very good returns to be had there.
But as I look at our portfolio management we’ve elected to go a little different route here because we have the opportunity to do it.
If we were at the 40% of our income coming from A malls I probably wouldn’t be sitting here saying our goal is that have 95% B-A malls but will be sitting in the low 80s it’s in a attainable goal and we don’t need to get there and I’m not saying industrial does either because they’ve got a very nice and strong (inaudible).
We don’t need to get there through a mass marketing but who knows I mean we’ll do whatever is best an attracts the most interest.
We’re hearing there is very good interest on those 17 properties.
So let's see we are monitoring it.
I think it’s great that they are out in the market because that will give us all some transparency on it.
Okay great.
And then my other question is from re-development pipeline.
Has there been any movement over the past kind three to six months in terms of things moving forward or popping in your conversations ICSC maybe that something over the next 18 months might start that you had another right start or anything like that? Well the major project that we’ve got under a careful – and Randy help me if I miss something.
But the major one that we are looking at right now is Broadway Plaza and Walnut Creek.
We think there's an opportunity to add some GLA there.
May involve tearing down some of the small store space and then rebuilding in a more densified manner.
We’re adding new markets there to an already well anchored location.
We think there's great opportunities there.
The other center that I would say has got great opportunities is Cerritos Mall.
We just recently worked with Nordstrom for them to relocate to a new store from an old store that they had at the mall and they are doing fabulous.
Our expansion tenants that we’ve added are doing terrific.
Mall sales and traffic is just on fire and we’ve got the capacity there to recycle a fair amount of square footage.
So I’d say those are probably our talk-to candidates that we’re focused on.
But we’re looking at every property all the time just in the ordinary course of business.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Christy McElroy with UBS.
Can you give us a early sense for how you plan to refinance the converts maturing next year? Christy we’ve got a variety possibilities as you know the converts fill up in March and today they’re trading at a premium.
So there is no real incentive to go early for them.
You saw us announce in the line of credit a 1.5 billion but we’ve also got the ability to expand that to 2 billion and I today as we speak we’ve got maybe 200 or 240 outstanding in the line.
So there is not – there is a lot of capacity in that line if we needed to do the line.
There is also a very strong market front secured bank notes right now.
We’ve got multiple indications from banks that we would be eager to put up five to seven year financing in place for us.
So there is a variety of ways we can do it.
As we mentioned before we also have a fairly large unencumbered pool and could do some financing there on some of those assets.
So not at the point of making the making decision but there is a number of buckets of liquidity that we could go to our combine to take the converts out.
And then on Superstition and Arrowhead coming through leader year.
Are these assets that you would potentially unencumber or would you refinance them.
And if you did reify them how much of an excess proceed do you think you could generate? Well we are going through that decision now.
It’s in partnership so we are getting tips from our partners.
But just as an indication we are getting proposals now on Arrowhead and Arrowhead has a relatively modest amount of debt I think less than $17 million and we’ve got proposals coming in at $210 million and $240 million.
A very very attractive pricing.
So there is a lot of capacity and both of those assets tend to be very under leveraged today.
Okay.
And then just following up on an earlier comment.
I’m wondering if you could give us a sense for some of the feedback you received from retailers outlet projects in Scottsdale and have you officially begun pre-leasing? And I knew that there was some talk about proximity of the sites a full price retail and if that’s been an issue at all? No it’s – it has been an issue which the retailers believe that given the different projects that have been announced in the marketplace that the location of the project that we’ve announced and the timing of the project that we’ve been announced the sponsorship is in their mind in the proximity to existing retail the right project for a fashion outlet center in the Scottsdale marketplace.
The retailers are very strongly supported by that and we’re really right now just taking inventory of all of the demand that we have whether we can size the first space of it it's traditional and these outlet centers to build them in phases the demand has been so strong that we may build the first phase that’s something larger than what would normally be a space of an outlet center which might normally be more in the 350 000 square foot zip code or neighborhood.
But we’re assessing the demand doing the layouts there right now and conversations taking interest from tenants.
Once we’ve taken interest from all the tenants we’ll select from that group and work with that group and find the right locations for them in partnership with our relationship and re-developer that we’ve got involved there AWE Talisman who is working with us and directly with the tenants and we are very bullish on that.
We think it's going to be a real winner.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will continue on to Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Yeah.
Hello guys.
How are you? First of all thank you for the breakout on the mall stats.
I think that’s a good thing to do and certainly appreciate that.
On the outlet center the two outlet centers I guess that you guys are working on both with Talisman I guess you bought one from Talisman and you are working on the Scottsdale one with Talisman.
Is there a broadening Talisman relationship you think that’s developing here? I mean I have a couple of centers that they own and a couple that they are developing as well.
We have a lot of respect for them otherwise we wouldn’t have handed the keys to the car to them both at Niagara over the next couple of years or at Scottsdale for the future.
So we’ve got a lot of respect for them.
Retailers have got a lot respect for that group.
We look at them by no means the power house inside that other groups are.
But they are quality operation that have produced quality results and developed quality projects and we think they are a perfect partner for us at this point on these projects and potentially others going forward.
So I could see it definitely getting broader.
Are any of those four are of interest to you guys to debate they currently have operating of those two in Chicago and Miami that they are developing.
Was that even on the table or it’s a possibility? I would say that at this point in time we definitely see ourselves doing more with them.
I’m not sure it wouldn’t involve buying something that they currently own.
On the other hand I could see developing something together with them beyond what we are doing in Scottsdale.
We will just have to see how things play out.
Okay.
Good.
Thank you.
Then on Tom a couple of questions for you.
The expense recovery ratio seem to dip this quarter anything unusual in there? Rich we had one settlement of a lawsuit that flow through expense for about $2 million they were operating of nature.
So that flowed through and moving numbers a little bit that was probably the only thing out of the ordinary.
And if you compare that versus – that’s probably the biggest differential in terms of recovery rate.
Okay.
Good.
Thanks.
And then on the overall debt I mean there was more floating rate debt this quarter it took a pretty good jump.
Does that go back to do you think typical levels of fixed rate versus floating rate? Rich the reason that happened was we had $400 million worth of swaps that burned off and there are a vintage of loans in our portfolio that came about in ’08 and ’09 when we were in a tight credit market that are floating at The Oaks and Westside Pavilion and SanTan and those are natural candidates to go to a long term fixed rate financing when they mature over the next couple of years.
So you will gradually see us move the percentage of floating rate debt versus the total down below 20% make around 25% as a results of that swap running off.
Okay good thank you.
Thank you.
Now we will hear from Schmidt Eric with ISI Group.
Hi good afternoon guys.
My question really was sort of if you guys have done an analysis on looking at the performances divergence in our portfolio you talked about someone said 46% of your NOI consumer assets $631 a foot and then the rest below have you looked at how same store has trended may be over historically between those two and what the divergence is and how you expect that going forward? I will try and give you an answer and hopefully I am being responsive.
We find that the stronger a center is the better comp sales growth we get and the better NOI growth that we get.
The more average a center is the more average the growth is and the weaker the center is the weaker the performance is both on sales and NOI does that answer your question? Yeah I was just wondering if you guys have actually looked at it some of the other companies have sort of given us an actual statistic on that but if not that’s okay.
Yeah absolutely yeah.
So we could that for you you know why don’t we do that maybe on the next call we’ll address that on these categories and we can talk about how sales have grown say in the top 20 over the last year and how same center growth was in the top 20 over the last year or maybe the last five years even that type of thing.
And then the top 50 and then – we’d do a little slicing and dicing for you then.
We do it granularly but let's do it for you in the same groupings that we talked about both sales breakouts and a NOI breakouts is that fair? That’s definitely fair and I guess the just last question.
If you can disclose some of the outlet you guys bought what were the sales per square foot be for the entire center and not just the inline non anchor space.
It’s about $600 dollars a square foot on average.
Because there is some scrip center space to – yeah that’s about right.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
We will now hear from Cedric LaChance with Green Street Advisors.
Tom I just want to go back to some of the numbers you gave earlier when you gave the breakdown in sales per region.
All the numbers were basically between 5.5% and 7.5% but when you look at the overall sales productivity gain for the last 12 months the number is about 9%.
Can you help me bridge the gap between the two? Yeah.
They are two different stats step Cedric.
The first stat at 9% was the mall sales per square foot and that’s for tenants that have been open 12 months.
When we looked at it regionally we were looking at total tenant sales for the period and so it's really a different statistic.
Okay.
Since you can gear back to development and Art six nine months ago I think you talked about making progress in regards to potentially announcing a development in the TNX market mall development in the Goodyear area.
Are you still on track to make such an announcement in 2011? Yeah.
I think that at this point in time as we evaluate the market the opening of that center looks like 2014-2015 but we are looking at it right now and trying to evaluate it.
Now we own that land.
It's entitled and we are still assessing that.
Okay.
Is there anything changing in either direction whether you open or – whether you go ahead with the project or not? There is nothing changed about whether we are going to go ahead.
We are definitely going ahead.
The only question is will it open.
So we are still evaluating that.
We have about 32-33 month build out from the time that we start the plans preliminary plans etc.
through until finished and when we have an opening date we will announce it but I would say it's in our five year pipeline.
It is definitely in those numbers.
Okay.
And then final question.
In regards to leasing are you seeing any changes in trends in terms of demand for short term leasing from your tenants.
In particular are you able to start moving more and more tenants effectively to a longer term lease to and effectively and hopefully at full market rent? I’m going to ask Randy Brant to share with us today to address the planning.
Hi guys.
No tenants were at shorter term leases.
I would say there is a trend more towards longer term leases as the economy is getting better.
But definitely not a trend of shorter term.
Most of our deals are – the tenants want to lock in 10 years at market rent.
So you are able to convert more – you are able to convert the short term tenant to the longer terms or is it something that from a percentages of leases that’s down on a short term basis is something that’s not changing much over the last 6 to 12 months.
The leases that came up in the end of ’08 and during ’09 where sales were down.
We did short term leases many of those are converting to long term from the leases today.
And what kind of rental uplifts are you able to achieve on those? Obviously a very center-to-center but we feel we’re getting market rent.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Your line is now open.
Just in terms of the handing back with Shoppingtown Mall any comment that you want to prune sort of the bottom 20 in the portfolio and with (inaudible) malls go I guess the root of being handed back to the lender.
Are there any sort of other malls sort of working in that bottom 20 where NOI might be deteriorating and they might be zero or negative equity value in your view that ultimately could be handed back to as well? Well Quentin unfortunately we don’t have a lot of the situations.
And even in the case of shopping tenant we don’t know what the resolutions is going to be on that one.
We are negotiating with the servicer and there are a variety of different ways it could go.
It is good real estate and we’re not sure of the outcome there.
So no we don’t have a lot of those situations and nothings that’s imminent.
But obviously we always reserve the right given the non-recourse financing to evaluate as we get close to a maturity.
Okay.
And then I think Michael have one as well.
It’s just – it's been a been a long day I just wanted to know how the – you said $18 million but I guess how does that what threshold did they earn that $18 million and how will that work? Michael this is Art Coppola.
Basically we’ve identified certain spaces that were very much under market that when this property was in the servicer’s hands there were leases done that were very very generous to the tenants.
And as part of this we identified certain spaces that we identified with them and quantify them and have a realistic outlook as to the rental increase which will occur over the next three years which gives them the ability to earn up to $18 million additional payout less certain leasing cost that are attributable to those new leases.
So I suspect very strongly that the performance will be high.
The demand from tenants here has severely increased and we’re obviously looking at ways to expand our presence in this market and we’ve got lots of different interest from luxury tenants that were not able to get into this center previously.
So it was an arms length negotiation that we sat down and then figured out the earn out.
But I guess the math behind it obviously 18 on a purchase price to 100 is a lot and as you are thinking about how the upsided NOI is sort of shared so that let's throw that $18 million at a seven cap effectively is another like 1.25 million of NOI.
Is it then they effectively get paid for that first increase in NOI and then after that you’re sharing all the upside? There is no sharing of that upside.
They get paid a formula up to a certain amount which looks to be much greater than 1.5 million and we capped it at 18 million less leasing expenses and it was really capped at about a 7.5 cap on specific spaces not on the whole center.
I think actually to add to that a little bit Michael.
There was another question earlier today about what cap rates might property of this normally go for.
Look in a privately negotiated transaction there's always a difference between the bid and the ask.
The seller wanted to get the value paid to them or leases that they knew were way below market and for leases that we acknowledge were below market.
But we also wanted to say all right so long as those leases are really rolled over at least the rent that we both anticipate are attainable we’ll give you a value for those credits for those leases as they roll over and in fact we’re going to retain you to do the leasing and management and marketing of this center for a period of time.
That’s really the different between giving them value by having paid them let's say a purchase price that would’ve been 2.18 less the cap reserve let's say a few million less 2.14 or 2.13 so it’s the difference essentially between adding by percent or at a 6.5 cap as it is and with no earn out or seven cap with an earn out where they can earn a little bit extra so long as they’re able to produce what we both believe certain spaces are worth.
Does that answer your question? Yeah that’s perfect.
And so you could have owned the center outright at 6.5 with gross or you are effectively going to own it at a seven and that seven is probably going to be flat as you pay this earn out over time and then after year three I assume it's a three it's a three year earn out? Yeah.
But again I want make very clear.
We see – the earn out is only related to certain spaces within the center.
There are plenty of other spaces that are going to be rolling over.
There is plenty of other growth coming from percentage rents.
There is opportunities to grow the NOI in our view from cost savings from the economies of scale that we would have on insurance and things like that.
So we see growth from this center beyond the earn out locations within the center that is well in excess of the same center growth that we have in our existing portfolio which is in the neighborhood of 3%.
We see very strong same centered growth coming from the stats which is a function of the fact that we are buying it with the current cost of occupancy as a percentage of sales in the zip code of 7% say 8% overall including the non-mall spaces.
So there is huge room for growth and the earn out will after a period of years give them value three years from now on a deferred basis for that growth.
I think in fact the reality is Tom we are going to end up booking the purchase price at the full level anyway most likely.
And so all of the growth will be attributed to us.
What this really is is that means – it's really – the reverse could have easily been done too where we paid them 2.18 and they give us back money if the center doesn’t perform at a certain level.
So it does not compress the growth.
It really aligns our interest in my view.
Right now - your money just goes out the door at a later point on the specific performance of the NOI coming in.
And the one thing I am almost a 100% certain the money is going to go out the door.
We are going to book it as liability.
And I only have one other question on this asset was obviously they went through a whole revitalization of the lapidated center.
When you reviewed the leases is there anything that gives you positive and negatives leases have been negotiated with tenants that either they have causes that things don’t go the way that you see them going? We have Randy feel free to hop in but we have a very bullish view on the property.
There is huge demand in our view beyond the spaces that we currently have available and we think it's going to – we think it's a great center today but we think it's going to be an even stronger center three to five years from now.
Randy do you want to chime in.
Yeah.
I wish some tenants would opt out we could probably get a lot more run.
Yeah.
This is a center that anybody that ever came to you and said I would like to have relieved or I will leave you would say hand me the keys.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And we continue on to Todd Thomas with Keybanc Capital Markets Hi good afternoon.
Question on Tyson’s corner.
Outside of Reston Town Centre the Northern Virginia office market remains rather soft with good amount of availability what type of pre-leasing if any would you require in order to move forward on that project and what type of rents are you underwriting on the office component? We are going to make the decision on – right now we are doing infrastructure work that will allow us to open up the office building and the residential building in spring of 2014.
We are going to take – and that work will be done between now and November of this year.
This is the utilities work and things of that nature.
The pre-marketing of the building is going extremely well.
We are already in negotiations with a lead tenant on the office space.
On the residential we could pre-lease that building to virtually in a short period time to 50% lease in a number of ways after doing our due diligence with local residential developers.
So on the office side and that’s really the key question.
The market look it’s a very large CBD Northern Virginia and Fairfax County.
This will be the premier building without question in the entire market both from a quality viewpoint a location viewpoint and the adjacency to Tyson’s Corner Shopping Center.
When you add all of that together we are absolutely convinced we will make the decision.
At the end of this year to continue moving forward and to break ground in the spring of next year that would allow 2014 delivery.
But we will be making that decision we’ll report further on this to you in our next earnings call next quarter.
right now everything is moving along very well.
Okay you have – you received the full site plan approvals.
We have approvals for three times the square footage that we are building.
We have approvals from Fairfax County to build 4.5 million square feet of residential and office and hotel on this site and we are only adding at this point in time 1.3 millions square feet.
Okay right.
And then at Atlas Park can you give us an update on your plans to re-merchandise that center bringing new retailers and talk about maybe some progress that you started to make there.
Yeah we’ve been – this is Ed have been in meetings with retailers and again you know we just closed on that centre – a couple of three months ago.
We’ve gone in –our operations team have saved tremendous amounts on operating costs and broad end our experts and obviously we’ve got a huge position there in Queens with our Queen Center Mall in our East Coast operating group.
We are and Brandy’s team our meeting with tenants we have significant interest based upon what we’re going to do with the traffic flow in the design fixing the design of that center.
I was actually in New York City meeting with the planning department of the City of Queens and City of New York this past week and we were welcomed with a very very open reception on them wanting to help us fix the situation out there.
We feel very confident that we’re going to.
We do have tenant demand we do have interest we are sourcing that.
We’re probably going to add a food and drug component to it to create more day trips and more traffic into the center.
Today restaurants are doing quite well.
Theaters are doing well the top theaters in the chain and it's got a very very successful health club there.
So Randy if you want to expand on that we’re feeling pretty good about it.
We’ve had many tenants interested in pursuing it.
As Ed said there is a few physical aspect to the center that needs to be fixed if you will.
And we are evaluating those.
But the progress is going very well.
Okay all right.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Your line is open Hi good afternoon.
Just focusing back on the Niagara Center I dnot know if I’m reading this right but there are some numbers out in the web on Talisman’s website that sales were 800 bucks at the peak.
Is that correct and if it is what would have caused that drop? There is no drop the Talisman website is private developer’s website and they have their own method of defining sales and it probably relates to the most recent vintage of outlet tenant sales.
But it's certainly not – we have a certain protocol that we as well as the other public mall companies follow.
I don’t think there is hardly any private developers that follow that.
Probably more of just the pure outlet play tenants in there and the more vintage play tenants are the ones that they put in as opposed to the ones they inherited way back.
The numbers we reported are absolutely consistent with verified validated sales reports consistent with the way that we report each and every one of our properties.
There was no sales drop off? No no drop off.
We track the sales for each tenant since they have been opened and some are over 10 years.
The sales has been going up not down.
And in fact year-to-date sales are up just under 11% and then in May we are up over 15.
So this center is tracking quite well.
Okay and then.
I want to tell you that sometimes our leasing people when they are leasing space in a leasing booth in ICSC might say something different what time I put into 10K.
Okay.
I will tell you that that probably is true.
Got you.
Okay.
And so nine sales are up over 41% in the center.
Okay.
And then do you have any numbers on how much of the center sales are being pulled from Metro Toronto or Canada.
Yes 82%.
Okay.
So any thoughts on possible impact the Halton (ph) Hills one of the two that are going to get filled might have assets.
Yeah we thought about it.
We feel very comfortable with our position for a lot of reasons and some of those reasons you will be learning about over the next couple of months.
Okay.
And then Tom I think you had mentioned bad debt was up.
Was that purely a function of borders or was there something else in there? No we really didn’t lose much on borders.
It was just a few tenants and again year-to-date the numbers are down.
So we wouldn’t have really drawn any conclusions from that.
We think the tenant environment continues to get better and we think year-over-year versus last year we are going to be actually down significant in 11 versus 10.
All right thanks.
Thank you gentleman.
Benjamin Yang with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just very quickly building on an earlier question.
Was there ever any consideration to buying Talisman outright because you guys have shown a willingness to buy a company that was (inaudible) hands on good assets and ground up development capability.
So I mean why not buy this company and take a bigger first step in the outlet sector rather than do these peace meals deals with the same partner? Well we’ve announced the deals that we have announced with them today.
And we believe that – look not everything that they own or that they are interested in doing on their own fits our platform from a quality perspective and some of those things that they would like to do in the future do fit our quality platform and some of the things that we would like to do in the future makes sense to bring them into like we did at Scottsdale.
So let the hand play out.
We are very pleased with our relationship with AWE Talisman.
They are class group well received on main street.
We think it's a great combination.
We see the opportunity here to do more together and let the hand play out.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> And as you build your portfolio to five or ten outlets over the next five years.
Where the partner only be Talisman? Do you have some type of exclusivity with these guys that you would only do deals with these guys? Let the hand play out.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Alex Goldfarb Sandler O’Neill.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Just going to the B&amp;C Malls (ph).
As you guys think about pruning your portfolio how many of those centers are enjoying benchers I’m just sort of curious how easy it is to sell those centers or how easy it would be for you to sell just your stake in the center as a way of getting towards that mid 90% fortress composition? About 13 of them are in joint ventures and two of them are going to be actively marketed with our joint venture partner in the near future in the next three months or so.
And about another 10 of them or so are with another joint venture partner.
And I think if that joint venture had an opportunity to monetize its investment in that joint venture it would.
Let’s say up to 20 you are looking at 13 of them are in joint venture and two of them are going to be marketed in the very near future just on the upper market through a broker and I think the others we will see how it plays out.
But there is no mandate again that we do all this.
It is again just part of the broad goal of getting to a point to where we have well over 90% of our income coming from high quality fortress high barrier to entry A rent type of assets and we have the ability to get there and we are going to do it.
Okay.
And I could probably guess the answer but I want to ask you anyway.
As you think about selling these assets you guys always seem more focused on asset quality versus impact earnings and dilutions.
So I am going to assume that if you had an opportunity to sell more of these centers before you had a chance to reinvest the dollars on a current income basis you would certainly do that correct? Yes.
We will and we have.
We’ve got a history of doing that and we totally understand and get it that it's going to be earnings diluted before you do it and that will not – unless you had an immediate redeployment of the capital which we have had in the past at times but we are not going to let the redeployment of capital the immediate redeployment get in the way of taking advantage of an opportunistic disposition.
Okay.
and just the final question for Tom.
Tom in the guidance on the second half of the year one just sort of the term fee if that’s writable or if that’s more weighted in in one particular quarter and then if there is anything else sort of one timish in the guidance.
Now on the term fees pretty hard to predict exactly what you settle and they write the check.
But I put it evenly in both quarters and then there really is nothing else unusual in that guidance.
Okay thank you.
And we will take our final question from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
And Mr.
Chao your line is now open please check your mute button.
Yes sorry about that.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But just - could you provide a quarterly re-spread as you previously have? And is that something you are going not or not planning to provide in the future in moving more towards the (inaudible).
In terms of the guidance? No just in terms of previously in the press release or in the script you quote that quarterly spread.
No as we have said for quite some time one quarter alone does not really give you an indicative sample size and so we think its misleading it can be misleading on the higher side of the low side so we think trailing 12 is far more meaningful number.
Okay and can you just tell us what it was last quarter.
Trailing 12 last quarter? Right right.
9.6.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have no additional question in the queue at this time.
I will turn things back over to our speaker for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you very much and we look forward to talking to you again soon.
Thank you for joining us.
Thank you.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s presentation.
Thank you for your participation and have a great day.
Please standby.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to The Macerich Company Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
Again I would like to remind everyone that today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations </strong> Thank you for joining us today on the third quarter 2011 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risks associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company’s press release and SEC filings.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which is posted in the Investor section at the company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors; and Tom O’Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Randy Brant Executive Vice President Real Estate.
We look forward to see many of you at NAREIT Convention in Dallas in two weeks.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Today we are going to be discussing third quarter results our recent capital activity and our outlook for the rest of 2011.
During the quarter our fundamentals continue to improve retail sales had a very solid increase and same center NOI was positive for the seventh quarter in a row.
The re-leasing spreads also showed good increases.
We did have a drop in occupancy but that was almost exclusively due to 14 Border stores closing as well as a large lease termination at ESTN zone in North Bridge Mall in Chicago.
During the quarter we signed 180 000 square feet of lease deals that was 121 deals the average new ramp was $41.11 per square foot.
Our average releasing spread versus expiring on a trailing 12-month basis is up 10.8%.
On occupancy we did have a 70 basis point decrease 91.9% versus 92.6% on a same center basis a year ago.
As I mentioned much of that was due to closure of The Border stores as well as ESPN zone.
On the ESPN zone space which is 34 000 square feet we received $2.8 million lease termination revenue which is reflected in the third quarter.
Average rent increased to 44.05 per foot that’s up from 42.24 a year ago.
Occupancy cost declined to 13% for the trailing 12 months that compares to 13.5% at yearend and that was down as a result of leasing activity as well as tenant sales increases.
Looking at FFO now for the quarter the adjusted FFO which excludes the impact of Valley View and Shoppingtown two centers in the receiver ship number was up 13.6% to $0.75 per share and that compared to $0.66 a year ago.
The other operating results same center NOI excluding lease termination revenue and SFAS 141 was up 2.82% compared to third quarter of last year.
I would like to point out that that increase does not include Santa Monica Place and any impact from Santa Monica Place.
Lease termination revenue increased to $4.7 million compared to $3.5 million in the third quarter of last year.
Most of this was due to the ESPN zone space at North Bridge I previously mentioned.
Bad debt expense for the quarter continued to trend down and was only $900 000 compared to $1.7 million in the third quarter of last year.
Management company expense was down to $20.2 million compared to $22.1 million for the third quarter of last year.
Looking now at the balance sheet we continued our recent trend by paying off the Rimrock mortgage.
That loan had a 7.6% interest rate.
It was a $40 million loan.
Rimrock has now been added to our unencumbered pool of assets that includes 14 centers that generates nearly $100 million of NOI.
This gives us a very significant balance sheet flexibility and capacity that we have not had in the past.
On September 29 we closed on a $230 million seven year fixed rate loan at 4.25 that’s on Arrowhead Town Center that paid off the prior loan which was $73 million at an interest rate of 6.9%.
Subsequent to quarter end the company retired at par plus accrued interest of $180 million of our convertible notes that have a stated maturity of March of ‘12 that leaves us with a balance of $440 million on those debentures.
Looking ahead to the 2012 loan maturities on the surface it looks like a total of $1.8 billion however $800 million of those loans have built in extension options.
Of the remaining 1 billion of maturities as of September 30th the debentures were $619 million.
So excluding those we have property level mortgages with expirations in 2012 of $380 million for a manageable level given the financing we’ve done over the past few years.
Today our debt to market cap is 46%.
Our average interest rate is 5.08% and our interest coverage ratio for the quarter was 2.39 times.
In this morning’s earnings release we reaffirmed our adjusted FFO per share guidance of $2.84 to $2.92 for the year.
This guidance range excludes the impact of Valley View and Shoppingtown two properties under the control of either a receiver or loan servicer.
Based on a very strong balance sheet our positive outlook for the rest of this year as well as 2012 we feel very comfortable in increasing our dividend.
In fact we just announced a 10% increase in the dividend to $0.55 per share per quarter.
That dividend is for shareholders of record on November 11th at the close of the business and is payable on December 8.
Moving now at tenant sales mall tenant sales per square foot were $467 for the 12 months ended September 30th 2011.
That is up 9.6% compared to the year end at September 30th 2010.
If you look at the geographical split we were fairly strong across the country with Arizona being up 9% Central region up 10% Eastern region 8% Northern California 7.5% and Southern California 12.5%.
At this point I’d like to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom and welcome to our call.
In the Q&amp;A section I will be happy to address questions about our business but at this point in time I want to share with you some thoughts on the recent passing of the founder of our company Mace Siegel.
Mace Siegel is the Mace in Macerich that’s where the name came from and Mace was not well-known to a lot of you on this call but he was extremely well-known to the main street of our business the shopping center business to the main street of the communities in which he did business to the main street of his favorite hobby thoroughbred horse racing where he was a legend in that business and was one of the leaders in seeking reform and good treatment of the athletes the horses themselves and the business itself.
He was a giant of the man and I feel compelled to share my thoughts with you about Mace both because of my personal feelings but also because it is the vision of Mace that gives me the confidence to look into the future of this company that you follow today on this call and in the future and have great confidence in the future because the fingerprints of Mace’s vision for our company are completely embedded in the DNA of our company you know Tom you know Ed you know me for the 17 years but we’ve been public but what you don’t know is the guidance and the wisdom that we got from my friend and my brother and our founder Mace.
He had simple truism that he shared with us early in our careers with him simple things like be true to your word treat others as you would want to be treated do the right thing for the real-estate and the real estate will do the right thing for you.
He was a student of life a student of the game he was continually learning.
And it is the guidance that he has given us that has created our company to be the different company that we are.
The fact that we value relationships so highly with our investors with our vendors with our tenants with the communities that we do business with with our people is what makes Macerich different.
It’s what gave us the ability to see our way through the tempest of 2009 because we were able to rely upon those relationships that were built by listening to Mace’s founding words of treat others as you would want to be treated that gave us the lender partners and the financial partners that helped us see our way through and gave us our Board of Directors and investors had helped to see our way through that past.
So he was a great man.
It’s been said that the only sadness in life is not to be great and today the day that we will be burring Mace later today there is no sadness.
We look forward we are proud to know him and you will see – you see his wisdom in everything that we do.
And it is what makes Macerich different and while it’s just deeply personal for me it does relate completely to our company and it is the reason Macerich is different.
So with that I do welcome you to this call.
I look forward to seeing you in a couple of weeks in Dallas.
And I would like to open it up to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Hi Nathan.
Your line is open.
If you’re on a speakerphone please do press the mute button or pickup the receiver.
And hearing no response we’ll go to Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Hi Art.
My condolences on the passing of Mace (indiscernible).
On the outlet projects and the growth in that I was interested in just the location of the new Chicago project relative to where outlets have traditionally been developed retailers at least at one point we’re concerned about proximity of selling their discount merchandise competing with their full price at regional malls and this being sort of inside if they would feel in Chicago.
I mean are they changing that and what could that mean for new outlet projects around the country if retailers sort of willing to kind of break that tradition in terms of where outlets are located in that area? That’s a big question.
So I’m not going to try and get into a long discourse on the future of the business than what the implications are from the past.
It is an evolutionary project the Fashion Outlets of Chicago that we’re building.
It does break all the rules of the outlet business.
I acknowledge that.
I will tell you that the leasing of the center is just fabulous in terms of the pace the momentum and the merchandise mix.
And I’ll tell you that the retailers that are coming to our center have locations at each of the other two properties through their other channels of distribution.
It reminds you that retailers think about the world and their businesses as being three channels of distribution full price off price or outlet and online and so in the same context we could say well online retailing is going to compete with their full price retailing.
They factored all of this and they see it as an opportunity and we see it as an opportunity and we look forward to announcing the names of the tenants.
I acknowledge that it is a departure from what was perceived to be the roles of engagement of the past but I also will tell you that the retailers see this as being just a massive opportunity.
The location is tremendously is unique also by the way.
You don’t get very many locations right next door to an international transit facility that gets 76 million passengers per year.
So may be that’s the pyridine shift – think about it that way too.
Right of course.
And do you have any type of preliminary sort of yield expectations for this? For (indiscernible) for Chicago sure the total project cost is estimated to be $200 million and we fully anticipate seeing a 10% to 11% unlevered cash-on-cash return on the total investment.
Okay great.
My other question is on multifamily.
I saw that you’re at least proposing multifamily at Broadway Plaza.
I know you’ve got going on at Tyson’s and you’ve talked about at one point Biltmore having some.
I mean you’ve got some peers who have done some multifamily themselves and you’ve got a lot of projects where it makes a lot of sense I mean and given how strong the sector has been have you given any thought about how you might structure these any differently in terms of the amount of risk you’ would be willing to take on.
How core you think it is to your business and whether you might do more of it yourself? I think we’re definitely going to do more a bit of ourselves.
I don’t think it’s going to be even 5% of our total business but it’s going to be a meaningful part of our business.
We’re going to do it what we think that we can generate better returns through (indiscernible) of adding residential then we could with retail.
So I mean at Broadway Plaza we are looking at adding maybe a third or fourth and a fifth level of residential to one and two level new retail buildings.
The fact because you wouldn’t be leasing retail at the third the fourth and the fifth level and you can get very high rents for the third the fourth and fifth level of residential.
We’re not – I don’t see us moving into the residential business separate from our retail business but in the context of residential development here at Broadway Plaza at (indiscernible) we were looking at possibly built more definitely.
The amenity package that we have to offer to the residential tenants is great retail and that’s a tremendous amenity.
So I like in that to the old days of the golf course community builders were if you build in a great golf course and in this case we haven’t build these great retail centers why wouldn’t you also want to participate in the development of the home sites around it for all the people that want to be close to it so that’s the way I look at it.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we’ll now go to Quentin Velleley from Citi.
Borders Stores I’m just wondering if you can give us an update in terms of the leasing of those stores and then also given Gap’s recent announcement I know they’ve been closing stores overtime.
Just whether or not you have had any additional discussions with Gap recently on their plans? Hello Quinn.
Randy is going to address that.
Actually your question kind of you came in half way so we miss the first half of the question.
It sounded like you wanted us to still talk about the releasing of Borders and then also what we see as the implications of the Gap’s announcements that what it was? Yes that’s perfect.
Okay thanks.
Randy do you want to go and address that? I will start with the Gap my first.
We’ve had many conversations of the Gap since our announcement a couple of weeks ago and the bottom line is nothing changes as it relates to us.
There’s a few stores that are on the bubble with them no more than three or four.
The remainder of the stores that we have in our portfolio with the Gap are stores they want to keep and either expand reduce or remodel.
As it relates to the Borders we have 10 Borders remaining to be leased.
Of those 10 two are scheduled to open before the end of this year and four will open next year and the remainder are scheduled to open in 2013.
Okay got it.
And then maybe one to Tom just in terms of the balance sheet; floating rate debt hitting about 25% with buyback of the converts and they’re maturing in March next year.
I’m just curious in terms of potential capital rising.
I would have thought that sort of 25% floating rate debt would be almost as high as you want to go.
So I’m just curious as to what the plans might be there? Well I mean we keep an eye on that and obviously given where swaps are today there is the opportunity to swap out some of that.
You may see us do a term note and take out some more of those converts and we will certainly consider doing a swap I mean the price of swaps today is remarkably low and in fact you could probably swap out seven years for about 170 swap rate.
So depending on what your spread is you could easily get some seven year money at 4% five year money and less than that.
So that’s something we will keep an eye on as we go forward.
The other thing I would point out in addition to that is that remember 25% of our current debt levels amounts only 10% to 11% of our total capitalization of this company.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Condolences regarding Mace Siegel as well.
Thanks you Craig.
Well this point seems to be heating up; I’m just wondering f there’s a timetable when the bidders are going to know who is going to be awarded the project.
I probably have read in the press that the people that are limited to be bidders are bound by confidentiality agreements not to even comment on whether or not they are a bidder.
Okay.
So what I’ve heard and I followed it closely is that they will likely announce a developer in March maybe six months from now is my guess.
I’ve heard that they are interviewing folks; I’ve heard that they are in negotiations with less than a handful of folks.
We’ve been following it closely also because of its competitive influence on coin center and our very high degree of interest in expanding our footprint in the New York greater marketplace.
So it’s some interesting project.
And where are you with regard to I guess pre-leasing the office tower at Tysons? Is that moved forward from the second quarter comments? Well pretty much as I have to go back and check what we said in the second quarter because we’re so focused on deal negotiations right now with different anchor tenants.
So right now we’re at a very interesting decision point further along that I would have thought one and actually two anchor tenants that could really kickoff the leasing and have this building be over 50% leased probably by the midpoint of next year or higher well well in advance for the opening and even well in advance likely of the ultimate groundbreaking here.
So leasing is – I have to hedge my prognosis here because when you’re dealing with one or two tenants that could occupy a very high percentage of the building 30% to 40% of the building it’s a visible transparent process.
But we got great interest from tenants out there.
We think it’s the signature building and I’m pleased with where we are so far.
Okay thank you.
Thank you Craig.
And we’ll now go to Christy McElroy from UBS.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Just to echo prior comments my condolences on Mace’s passing as well.
Thank you Christy.
Just with regard to your same store NOI growth from the quarter how much of that was driven by the annual rent bumps? I know you have CPI escalators in there and fair amount of leases.
Can you remind us about the process of how that gets reset and as CPI growth keeps rising when does that start sort of following through the rents? Well I mean it’s flowing through the rents now.
We’ve got as of January 1st of 11 I think most of leases used 1.3% escalator CPI.
It’s based on 12 months ended September the prior year Christy in most of the cases.
We got about 80% of our leases on CPI.
So of the 2.8 increase is about 1% to 1.2% of that is CPI increases and the balance is releasing activity and although the occupancy was down quarter-over-quarter you have to look at the quality of the occupancy and the occupancy was down because of big spaces but we’ve reduced the amount of temporary tenant space that’s in our occupancy numbers and for the better part of the year occupancy has been up over the prior year so that’s part of it as well.
Okay.
And then I’m just trying to reconcile the difference between reported FFO and adjusted FFO and the timing of the impact from Valley View and Shopping Town.
I know that you had the $0.25 impairment charge in Q2 and then another a few cents FFO drag in Q3.
If I look at your six months ended income statement the difference between reported and adjusted was $0.25 but for the nine months ended the difference is $0.30 so I’m wondering when that other… The difference is really default interest on those two loans.
Okay.
We’ve decided to just break those out separately those two centers because we don’t control the timing.
They are either under the control of the loan receiver – loan servicer or the receiver so in both cases whatever you recognize is a deduct from FFO now when the asset ultimately goes back to the lender it flips around and it becomes an increase to FFO.
So the difference is really we’re including the impairment we are including default interest and we’re separating those two numbers.
Further complicating the things and this is an industry wide factor.
May we came out yesterday and gave new guidance regarding the treatment of impairments in FFO and the new guidance is that impairments should not be reduced from FFO and that’s a departure what’s been done in the past so I think you’ll see a lot of that changing in the fourth quarter not just for us but others.
So with that I would encourage you to focus on the adjusted FFO numbers and not the base FFO number.
So the default interest had been included in the adjusted FFO number before but it’s not now? No it’s in there both cases.
The adjusted FFO number did not change.
The underlying FFO number changed because we pulled out the default interest and we had not done that in the past.
So is the current guidance range for adjusted FFO apples-to-apples versus what you’d provided last quarter? Yes and it hasn’t changed.
Okay.
So in terms of the additional drag from Valley View and Shoppingtown for the full year that’s primarily driven by default interest? Right.
For what remains in the year yes.
If there’re any negative NOI there? No.
It’s negligible.
Most of the negative is just a default interest.
Okay.
But the NOI is less than the interest.
Right.
Excluding the default interest does the NOI below the debt service? There you are talking about operating income Christy.
Sure.
Is the operating income negative? Right.
Slightly but it’s… It’s a debt service.
Yes it’s well below the debt service.
Otherwise it wouldn’t have gone back to the servicer right Tom? Yes the NOI covers operating expenses but it does not cover debt service.
Okay.
And that accounts for the drag that you’ve reported? Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
It’s not negative cash flow but it’s to be board at service but is definitely less than debt service.
All right.
Thank you.
Just to reiterate this is all non-cash.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Hi.
Our condolences as well on the passing.
Thank you Michael.
Thanks.
So Tom going back to Valley View and the other assets one more time so was it safe to say that as longevity on the books you’re looking at about $0.02 a quarter of FFO drag NOI? That’s right.
Okay.
And any idea of the timing any do think… Again we don’t control it we think Valley View it's still possible it could be off our books in the fourth quarter I might have to say it's more likely it will be the first quarter of next year and Shoppingtown my guess best guess at this point would be second quarter of ’12 but again since we don’t control it we just thought it was a lot easier to follow if we broke those out separately.
Got it.
Okay.
And then looking going back to the Chicago development of second (indiscernible) you talked about the economics being about 10% to 11% return which is similar to other projects other developments on the outlet side but if we are thinking about it it’s next to an airport it’s pretty infill it's going to be in a closed center how does the occupancy cost of something like this look like compared to a traditional outdoor center? Well surprisingly well they are a little bit higher but you know surprisingly enough at the Macerich full price centers.
Many times our outdoor centers have occupancy cost for commonary maintenance that are not that different than in close malls because you spend money on other things like landscaping and irrigation and a lot of other things.
Each center is different each center is unique.
At this particular center the charges are not that heavy compared to a normal and close center.
So it's very manageable that will allow the retailers to pay us a fair rent and for us to see a good return on our investment for them to have a great forecast of the profitability for their stores.
Okay.
And lastly any update on the Strayfalls… Not really other than it's clearly on the radar screen of our anchor tenants and we will proceed with ground breaking when we see fit and at this point in time I think on the last call I think our best estimate at this point of time is 2015.
It’s – it’ll be a 33-motnth heads up and that’s the process.
33 months from the time that we go thumbs up as when it’ll open.
So we’ll give you a big thumbs up when it’s ready.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll now go to Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
Hello guys good morning.
You have three centers essentially with AW Talisman or some relationship with AW Talisman they have three other centers as well I think it’s Miami Vegas Santa Fe I think the Miami one is in development any interest in those other three that they have? We talked a little bit about this on our last call and we tried to guide you towards the fact that Chicago likely would be the one where the relationship would expand.
So the other names that you mentioned I’d say are fairly unlikely.
Okay all right.
Good thank you.
And then could you give us an update on Santa Monica where you guys are at this point and what you’re thinking about the center? Sure we’re feeling very good about where we are.
We are – the biggest news is that we’re into a second generation of leasing only 14 or 15 months into – after the grand opening.
That’s really a little bit unusual.
It’s not unusual to give the opportunity to start doing some releasing within a year of two after a great center opens for business so for example when we opened the Queens Center expansion within a year or two after the opening in the expansion area we’re already doing some minor recycling because it becomes really obvious to everybody what works really well and what is not working.
And the pressure of success essentially causes the replacement of weaker retailers with stronger ones.
That’s going to happen on a much grander scale at Santa Monica.
The remainder here is that we lease that in the worst of times in my recent memory for the type of retail that it is which was the spring of 2009.
We have three or four major tenants retailers that I consider major that are in the 10 000 to 25 000 square foot neighborhood that are looking for homes in Santa Monica that are international global retailers that are not currently here and several if not all of them want to be at Santa Monica place.
And these are tenants that are custom to paying high rents for signature iconic locations that helped to further their brand.
The names like Uniqlo for example and Topshop is looking in the market and people like that.
I’m not saying they are going to end up at Santa Monica place but it’s the best location in Santa Monica and they want to be in West LA and it’s a logical place for them to come.
So right now the challenge is really assembling space for them but again being a great center you have some tenants that are doing terrific at Santa Monica place some tenants that are not doing the mall average.
And so I think that you’re going to see two years from now believe it or not the center is not getting even look like what it looks like today.
So that’s how dramatic the second generation of leasing is going to be.
And I will also tell you anecdotally that the second generation of leasing that I’ve taken a look at generally the rents are anywhere from 50% to 75% higher than the contract rents that are being replaced.
So as we’re replacing tenants like Charlotte Russe which had corporate issues and people that we did original leases with sketchers people like that they are being replaced with much better name sketchers is being replaced by the free people Randy and then there are some of the bigger names that I mentioned.
So the big message is we’re into a second generation of leasing already and it’s a great second generation of leasing.
Okay very good.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Rich.
And we will now go to Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi Todd.
Hi good morning.
First question for Tom as a follow up on the balance sheet as we look ahead to 2012 I think you mentioned $380 million or so property level debt that does not have extensions.
How are you thinking about handling the consolidated and JV maturities.
Some of those mortgages have fairly high coupon so I was just wondering if you’ll retire a portion of those mortgages as you have throughout the year or look to refinance some of those.
We don’t have too many of those Todd I think generally speaking we’ll refinance the rates are certainly extremely attractive as evidenced by the Arrowhead Town Center financing we just closed seven year fixed at 4.25.
So if we can get seven to ten year money at 4.5 or less that’s pretty compelling and you’ll probably see as go ahead and put mortgages on those.
Okay.
And then just the follow up on Borders can you talk about what kind of leasing spreads on average you are seeing so far and what you are expecting at those 14 sites overall and then any progress on ESPNs and Woodbridge.
Well in terms of Borders we have to look at each location individually on average they only pay us $18 a foot of rent so it’s a pretty low hurdle and I’ll defer to Randy on some of the specifics that people were putting into replace them and so the economics.
It’s across the board and one location in Arizona where it’s likely in the upper level of Borders with Pottery Barn and the lower level with Crate and Barrel again incredible impact on the merchandising at this particular center.
But the types of tenants are across the board and there’s spends across the board the good news is all those spends are positive.
Okay.
And just quick update on the ESPN Zone at Woodbridge? North Bridge.
North Bridge sorry.
Do you want to talk about the bigger plan there Randy a little bit or… So it’s an interesting situation through confluence of events.
We’ve been able to take that location as well as I believe an office location that we had roll over as well as some other space that we were able to roll over.
And the bottom line is we’re able to consolidate now with the ESPN location about 90 000 square feet on two and a half to three levels and so there may be a mezzanine involved here a continues space.
So it actually probably the most interesting retail space sitting in the Michigan Avenue area right now and we’re actually also looking to open up North Bridge to Rush Street which is emerging and so very powerful street and ESPN Zone here is just right at that intersection there of Rush where within there being close small area.
So we’re looking at really signature type of people to go there because it’s so impossible to gather 90 000 square foot contiguous space in the vicinity of Michigan Avenue.
It could be cut up but it could be consolidated in the one two three users.
I guess it’s going to be a great opportunity for us.
We’re going to be patient.
We’re doing the renderings and the planning and the reconfiguration and some cubical three dimensional design not only of that but the actually entrance of North Bridge Mall.
So we’ve some pretty good thoughts that have been put together lately on how to make North Bridge a more three-sided center instead of just having access limited to that the entrance that we have off of Michigan Avenue.
We have that rush street entrance also where at (indiscernible) is right now I think and we’re going to looking at opening up an entrance into the center that could to be the most powerful entrance frankly we’ll have at the center and SPN zone is right in proximity to that.
So it’s going to be very I think it’s going to be a huge opportunity for us in the middle of some intriguing conversations with some retailers that just cannot possibly get their hands on that kind of square footage anywhere and so there is a real premium for scarcity and size that we think we’re going to be able to capture there.
It’s – we think it’s got a great future there and we’re very optimistic.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alex Goldfarb from Sandler O’Neill.
Hi.
Good morning out there.
Just going I guess I’ll take easier ones first before get to the detail ones.
Just quickly in Queens Hemmerdinger has his industrial park for sale I would have imagined that he would have discussed with you guys initially if you had an interest.
So I guess one were you initially shown at it and if two if you weren’t initially shown at before you marketed it is what he is asking is that something that the number has worked for you guys? Look first of all we have a relationship there with the family and yes we met with him and know him and we did have an opportunity to take a look at it.
In terms of the values that they are looking for I can’t I don’t know what the market would pay or if they will in fact sell it but if they get the prices for the land that I’ve heard that they are asking for it.
It means that the parking garage and the all of the buildings and all of the rent that we bought at Atlas Park we got for free because they are asking as much for that land as we paid for a vertical project.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then going to the Chicago outlets in your comments about the occupancy cost of some of your outdoor centers versus this project I mean should we think that this outlet would have like 12% 13% occupancy cost versus because I think typically outlets are more like 8% or 9% so just trying to get a sense of what the – of where we should think about the actual occupancy costs coming out? I think the retailers and that’s the most because remember the denominator to that formula is the sales projection that comes from the retailer that doesn’t come so much from us it’s the retailer I can tell you that in their minds they think they are paying mid to – mid high level single-digit occupancy costs because they have huge expectations of sales productivity from this center.
Definitely well under double-digit cost of occupancy at inception is what most retailers that we are talking to have in their forecast.
But to get to the returns that you want from a center that costs space as same as a mall you’ll certainly need mall like occupancy cost right? No because if you are getting sales that are double per foot what we see in the rest of our mall you don’t need to see mall occupancy cost to be right? Yes.
Okay.
So the point is that you’re expecting like $800 $900 a foot out of this? We are – it’s really more our retailer’s expectation as well as own but we know that our retailers extremely high expectations that would certainly fit that level of performance it wouldn’t shock the retailers or us if they hit that level of performance or above.
Okay.
And then Tom your CapEx expectations recurring CapEx expectations for the full year and year-to-date I miss those in the 8-K and maybe I should take it further but can you just remind us what they are? Well if you look at what we – during the last two years ‘09 and ‘10 ‘09 was light year at 40 million ‘10 just about 60 million if you annualize what we have to-date it's about 64 million.
So that’s a pretty good run rate.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then finally on the guidance I guess going back to Christy’s question on it I guess I’m a little confuse because in 2Q you guys included the gain from Granite Run it looks like the base guidance the 252 260 changed from the 259 to 257 and maybe that’s because of the addition of both centers now in their delta the breakout of both centers versus before which is one center but if as we think forward about what’s in guidance and what’s now are so impairments aren’t going to be in there anymore and the debt forgiveness gains those won’t be in there anymore correct? Well really look we’re talking about two centers because we have debt activity that goes back and forth.
Our net debt activity is actually a loss for the year of about $4 million.
But if you look at those two centers you’ve got two components in there right now.
You’ve got the shortfall as it relates to interest and default interest which is relatively small amount and then you have the impairment of $0.25 $0.245 on Shoppingtown that hit in the second quarter.
Okay.
The rest of the numbers that show up they are both for Valley View and $0.01 or $0.025 for Shoppingtown really relate to the interest in default interest that’s a shortfall and that’s accrued.
Now when those properties are ultimately off our books that will reverse.
Rather having these things that are beyond our control going in and out of the FFO we’re taking them out to show an adjusted FFO number.
It’s just on those two properties in a different between this and what we had in the second quarter was a default interest.
But on a separate note and related to those two assets we do have new guidance on how to treat impairments and not just on properties that go back to servicers or receivers but in general the recommendation from NAREIT as of yesterday that impairments not be a deduction from FFO.
So and I think you’ll see our numbers changing and others to reflect that.
However that will not change our adjusted FFO guidance or numbers.
And then do they make any comments on the debt gains when you hand back your booked gains? We would not.
We would not.
We include the debt gains either.
But Granite Run wasn’t there? Well Granite Run wasn’t one of those two properties.
It’s a relatively small number.
We had more than enough going the other way.
We had $9 million of loss under the extinguishment of debt going the other way Alex so.
Okay.
You know we’re trying to limit this to big items that are lumpy and run multiple quarters.
Okay I appreciate it thank you.
Thank you.
We will now go to Ben Yang with KBW.
Hi good morning.
Tom you mentioned the same NOI for the quarter excludes Santa Monica Place but it also looks like you’re now including this asset your sales and occupancy numbers obviously without making any adjustments to the prior years and when you do that it kind of distorts the picture a little bit sales are a bit higher than maybe otherwise would have been the case and occupancy is a bit lower when you include the property.
And I appreciate some detail that you offered on Santa Monica but I was wondering if you can comment on where sales and occupancy are today for that asset and when you think that potential is for productivity once the center is stabilized.
I don’t want to comment specifically on Santa Monica but I will tell you if you exclude Santa Monica from occupancy it doesn’t move the number at all because it’s 91% and the others are – our average was 91.9 so doesn’t move it at all.
And if you were to pull it out of the sales per foot number it would go down $3 so you’d still have a 9% positive increase rather than 9.6 so it’s relatively immaterial to those numbers as well.
Okay great.
That’s helpful.
And then is it surprising at all that you are already into generation leasing here after just one year I mean is this typical for new development or maybe are the rents maybe a bit too high for some of the tenants that came in on day one.
It’s very atypical to be this far into second generation of leasing.
It’s testimony to the strength of the asset to the success of the asset.
It’s basically evidence of the Darwinian theory of survival at work on steroids because you have the concepts that work and great retailers are obvious and the ones that don’t work that likely were a function of leasing into the serious headwinds that we had in January February March and April of 2009.
We knew exactly what we’re doing when we did that leasing.
We knew we were likely leasing to some retailers that may or may not make it.
We didn’t know which one’s necessarily may or may not make it but we had a good pretty good idea of what was going to happen.
And it’s really just function to the strength of a center the better the center the more turnover you have.
Now if you have turnover and you don’t have replacements in it that’s a problem.
If you have turnover massive turnover opportunities and you have massive interests from great retailers that’s a huge opportunity and its testimony to the success of the project and what’s happening in the trade area.
The story is bigger than Santa Monica Place the shift in the gravity and power in the entire community is shifting to the point to where – when you look at the all of the developments around Santa Monica Place and the public parking garages that have been torn down up on the Third Street Promenade as well as the developments that are happening to the south of Santa Monica Place.
Santa Monica Place is rapidly and every square foot within Santa Monica Place is becoming the 50-yard line of the entire community so it’s really testimony to the asset.
Okay.
And can you just comment on who is leaving is it any particular segment within retail and it sounds like it was tenants that indeed fail but not miss still a year voluntary choice to kick them out of that is that fair as well? You know I mentioned two names like Charlotte Russe was one name that I mentioned in my comments and I mentioned another name Skechers.
Charlotte Russe had issues corporately and looked for rent relief from all of their landlords corporately and so when they asked for rent relief here we elected not to give it to them Skechers had different issues.
They had double locations on the Promenade and the Santa Monica Place and they experiment it with trying to do both and they just it didn’t work for them.
So look in general luxury and hip SoHo type international tenants are doing great.
So the All Saints of the world the Tiffanies of the world the Louis Vuittons of the world the Nordstrom’s the Bloomingdale Soho store here they are doing fabulous.
You’re more middle of the road you’re juniors and people of that nature they’re not doing so well.
And so that’s and when you look at who wants to be here it’s again the global hit brands.
So you’ve got – Uniqlo wants to be in the trade area we think we have the best location for people like Topshop who want to be in the trade area we think we have the best location for them.
Other folks like Banana Republic are going to likely relocate from where they are in the Promenade and there is another couple of big users.
So I mean that’s kind of symptomatic of what the demand is it’s again just wait and see.
It’s a very good sign though.
Okay that’s helpful.
And just one more question I apologize if I missed it.
But did you comment on any outlet sites that might compete with the Chicago outlet development that you just announced because obviously in other markets we see other developers raising to get preleasing and place to win those markets I’m curious if there is anything on the radar in Chicago as well? It’s a very competitive environment.
So it’s a big market.
So yes there is plenty of other activity in the market.
In terms of outlets? On all fronts.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will go next with Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Quick question going back to financing side of things it sounds like given where interest rates are would you be inclined to refinance your 2012 mortgages what are your expectations as far as going out to excess proceeds on those maturities? Vincent I mean when we typically when we do a 10-year financing or seven year financing we do up to the investment grades so it tends to be 60% 65% life company financing has been extremely attractive over the last couple of years and that tends to be a little bit more conservative.
So it just depends on the asset how much we’ll be pulling out but it will probably be more than enough to take out the maturity level and maybe a little bit more beyond that.
So there is question earlier about floating rate debt if that’s the case obviously the excess proceeds get used to pay down our line of credit which is floating and we’ll reduce that number.
Okay.
Can you provide the NOI that’s coming off of these mortgages? No.
That’s not something we normally do but if you underwrite these using a pretty conservative 12% debt yield we can refinance out all of them quite comfortably.
Okay and then just another question it sounds like your adjusted FFO guidance is same to same but on the same-store NOI I think the last guide provided was plus 1.5 to plus 2.5.
It seems like you’re running a little bit ahead of that right now year-to-date.
Is there anything in fourth quarter that would take the run rate down from where it’s been maybe partial quarters some of the impact? No.
I think it’s looking more like a 2.5 to 3 based on where we are today in the fourth quarter.
Okay okay.
Thanks that’s was it.
And our last question comes from Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Good morning.
Sorry about that before my condolences as well.
As you look at the Chicago project and as you said before it does change the landscape a bit from the normal positioning between full pricing and outlets.
And your discussions with the retailers how much sales cannibalization are they willing to leave with and are they underwriting here in this process? I think that – I answered that question but I'll answer it again.
I think they factored in everything that they need to factor in including the impact that their store here will have on any other store that they have in the world whether it be 10 miles away or thousand miles away or on the Internet.
And they factored this in their REIT decision that they make.
They factor in what’s the impact going to be on my brand.
Is this going to enhance my brand and many times that will influence the retailers decision to open a store.
So the retailers make their decisions and we – I’m fairly confident that the idea that they might be herding with Woodfield or Oakbrook is not even on their agenda.
I never heard it even to comment it up on by any of the retailers that are coming with those not even suggested but that’s also very consistent with what I’ve been saying is that we've – look we understand that the retailers have three outlet channels full price off price online? Yes.
When it gets to a certain proximity I mean granted there are some who will be some tourist dollars in there as well but it is -- Yes it’s a very legitimate question.
I get it.
I understand what you’re saying.
I totally understand what you’re saying.
Let's go ahead and let the hand play out.
I will give you an example that I’ve been told that there’s a location in Milan where Loro Piana has full price store and an outlet store literally 100 yards from each other and there view is that one does not hurt the other because it's a different customer.
Okay.
All right.
And now that you have Chicago out of the bag how many other outlet centers deals either development or acquisitions would you see working on now that that are real and could be announced soon? I wouldn’t hold your breath for anything soon.
We’ve announced another development project a while ago six months ago and we are proceeding on that in Scottsdale.
And we’ve consistently said that if we could grow this to be a business where we own five may be as many as ten of these centers over the next five to ten years we think that would be a great accomplishment.
We have extremely high expectations and hurdles of quality and productivity.
We want them to be high barrier to entry type of locations.
We want them to be reflective of the top 30 or 40 assets that we have in our full price portfolio in terms of quality geography and success.
So I don’t anticipate it’s going to be a huge number certainly one hand maybe two.
But you know what we are of a size where adding that amount can be meaningful and we are excited about our limited entry into this business and we are open to looking at opportunities in the major markets that we have interest in LA San Francisco New York DC Chicago; these are the markets that we have great interest in Arizona and – if we can expand our footprints in these markets either full price or outlet we’re going to be really interested in doing it with the same skill that gave us the ability to operate well within these certain high barrier and core markets for us.
Those same skills enable us to work through entitlement issues identification of proper locations and then just niches within markets also in these core markets.
So look for us to expand in the markets that we’ve talked about being important to us in the future.
What’s happened in Scottsdale over the last quarter or so? Ongoing conversations and multiple announcements from multiple people it’s like they need development horse race in the outlet businesses there’s lots of conversation going on the time will tell.
Even if we don’t get to the proper level of leasing that we feel is appropriate we could usually differ the timing of the opening of that project or if the conversations go better as time goes on here then what we would anticipated we could accelerate the opening.
Its – time will tell.
There is nothing new to report on that.
The major news that we have to report is that on our last earnings call.
We gave you kind of a tip of hat that you might look for an announcement that Chicago might be something we might announce.
We have announced that.
We’re very bullish on that.
The success that we have got going on Chicago the next big announcement that you’ll probably see out of us will be an expansion of the Niagara Outlet Center that we bought and that could be very meaningful and that could be an expansion of 200 000 to 250 000 which is really almost as significant as opening a new outlet center.
And frankly I’d rather open a 250 000 foot expansion to a center that’s doing $700 to $800 a square foot then open up a brand new center that’s 300 000 or 400 000 feet that does $300 $400 a foot.
So you know what consider that to be your third major real project the expansion of Niagara Falls.
Great that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you so much and thank you for joining us and thank you for your wishes and look forward to see you in two weeks.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions in the queue.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Welcome to the Macerich Company fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
[Operator instructions.] would now like to turn the call over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on the fourth quarter of 2011 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risks associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company’s press release and SEC filings.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the Investor section at the company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors; Ed Coppola President; Tom O’Hern Senior Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer; and Randy Brant Executive VP Real Estate.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Jean.
Today we’re going to be discussing fourth quarter results as well as annual results of our recent capital activity and our outlook and guidance for 2012.
During the quarter our fundamentals continued to improve.
Retail sales had a good increase and same-center ROI was positive for the eighth quarter in a row.
The re-leasing spreads also showed strong increases.
Although occupancy did drop compared to year end 2010 there was an 80 basis point improvement from September 30.
Leasing volume and spreads were both very good.
During the quarter we signed 272 000 square feet of leases.
That was 184 deals.
The average new rent was $46.86 and the average re-leasing spread compared to expiring - and that’s over a trailing 12 month period - was 13.7.
So through the course of the year it was 13.7 positive spread.
The occupancy cost as a percentage of sales dropped to 13.0 for the trailing 12-months.
That was down from 13.4 a year ago.
Average rent in the portfolio was up to $45.37.
That compared to $42.47 at the end of the 2010.
For the quarter adjusted FFO which excludes the impact of Valley View and Shopping Town was $0.87 a share.
That was up 13% over $0.77 a share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Same-center NOI excluding termination revenue and SFAS 141 revenue was up 1.7 for the quarter and up 2.5% for the full year.
Lease terminate from revenue was up slightly at $4.1 million compared to $3 million in the fourth quarter of last year and bad debt expense continued the positive trend which was a reduction to $1.4 million compared to $1.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For the full year bad debt expense was down to $5.3 million and that’s down from $8 million in 2010.
Included in income and equity of joint ventures was the fact that the company and its joint venture partner in the SDG partnership - SDG-Macerich - that owned 11 regional malls broke that portfolio and distributed the assets.
Six of the 11 assets were distributed to Macerich in December.
We received 100% ownership of Eastland Mall in Evansville Indiana; Lake Square Mall in Florida; South Park Mall in Moline; Southridge Mall in Des Moines; North Park Mall in Davenport Iowa; and Valley Mall in Harrison Virginia.
Those assets that we received for accounting purposes were accorded a fair value at the date of transfer and that resulted in a gain for Macerich - that compared to the book value - of $188 million.
And that was reflected during the quarter.
As mentioned in the press release this morning we are planning a significant amount of non-core asset sales in 2012.
The range of the asset sales in the guidance is $300 million to $350 million.
The timing of those sales is expected to be in the first half of 2012.
In-place debt on those assets is approximately $125 million with an average interest rate of 5%.
The net cash proceeds from the transactions that’s estimated to be about $225 million.
And that will be used to pay down our line of credit which today has a rate of about 2.25%.
So as a result of the sales and the debt reduction we have factored in about $0.08 a share in FFO dilution for our 2012 guidance.
So $0.08 is reflected in the guidance we gave today so the midpoint as issued was $3.10.
That was reduced by $0.08 for the expected non-core asset sales.
Looking at the balance sheet our debt to market cap at year end was 44.9%.
Debt to EBITDA was 7.7x and our interest coverage ratio for the quarter was a very healthy 2.67x.
we had recent loan activity including $125 million of 7-year unsecured note at LIBOR plus 220.
The proceeds were used to pay down our line of credit.
We also just recently closed a $75 million tenure financing on La Encantada at a rate of 4.22%.
And in addition we have arranged a $140 million tenure fixed rate loan on Pacific View Mall and that loan to have an interest rate of approximately 4%.
Right before year end through a deed in lieu foreclosure Shopping Town Mall was taken by the loan servicer and the $39 million loan was forgiven.
And the book value of that asset was written off.
That resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of about $3.9 million.
Valley View still remains in the hands of the CMBS special servicer and we expect that $125 million loan to be forgiven in the first half of 2012.
That will result in a large gain on early extinguishment of debt.
Both the Shopping Town and Valley View results have been excluded from the reported AFFO and are not included in the 2012 AFFO guidance either.
The company has about $430 million of convertible debentures due in mid-March.
We plan to use the proceeds from the Pacific View financing I mentioned a few minutes ago and also proceeds from the long term financing of two or three of our currently unencumbered assets to pay off the converts and to stretch out our maturity schedules.
Excluding the converts and the loans with built-in extension options we only have about $300 million of 2012 property level loans maturing.
Regarding the $790 million of loans that can be extended to 2013 those are all prepayable without penalty.
We plan to take advantage of the great long term interest rate market that we’re in right now and in fact we’re currently negotiating long term fixed rate loans for $425 million of those which include several of those 2013 maturities.
In this morning’s earnings release we did give adjusted AFFO guidance in the range of $3.06 to $3.14.
That guidance range excludes the impact of Valley View and Shopping Town.
The guidance assumes the above financing activity that I just mentioned and it also factors in our plans to sell noncore assets in the first half of 2012 which I just elaborated on.
Keep in mind that results in $0.08 of dilution.
The noncore asset sales also included in that guidance with same-center NOI growth which is factored in at a forecasted range of 2.5% to 3.5%.
The AFFO split by quarter is estimated to be 21% in the first quarter 24% in the second quarter 25% in the third quarter and 29% in the fourth quarter.
Looking now at tenant sales mall tenant sales per square foot for the year came in at $4.89.
That compared to $4.33 at December 31 of 2010.
That’s a 12.9% increase.
At this point I’d like to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom and welcome to this call.
As you can see from our results we’re coming off of a very good year on the operating front and another very good year in terms of the total shareholder return that our equity holders have enjoyed.
ISS recently came out with a new peer group ranking system where they rank each company with another 20-24 companies that they measure it against.
And over the last three years against our peer group of 24 companies that ISS came up with we’re the number one ranked company in terms of total shareholder return and obviously you know the numbers in terms of how we’ve ranked over the last one two and three years.
And we are very optimistic that the fundamentals that are in place today and the feeling that we have a little wind behind our backs both on the operating side and the balance sheet side will result in very strong operating results over the next couple of years - actually over the next foreseeable future - and hopefully continue to result in at least on a relative basis very strong total shareholder returns.
As I mentioned we’re pleased with the improvement on the sales front in particular we’re seeing sales in our strongest centers continue to get better.
These sales at these levels are now roughly back to the peak levels that they were at say roughly four to five years ago.
Leasing appears to be picking up steam and price discovery appears to be taking place.
So I’d say if I were to characterize the year 2011 the first six months were really characterized a little bit with a tug of war between the landlord and the retailers over a price discovery on rent given the fact that we felt that there is a significantly improving marketplace in the middle.
We found ourselves reaching agreement on a number of deals and you’ve seen the rent spreads which were very good and the prognosis on the leasing side we think on all levels is very good for us going forward.
I mentioned our balance sheet and Tom went through the details.
I would note that we are very pleased with where we find ourselves today.
And as we go ahead and clean up our converts this year or the next couple of months which we’ll be doing by taking our very large $2 billion unencumbered pool of assets and putting 10-year mortgages basically at fixed rates on several of those assets to retire that debt.
Adding into that the 2013 and 2014 very low and or manageable maturities our balance sheet is certainly in the best shape that it has ever been in our life as a public company.
We’re pleased with our ability to report to you a significant increase in our view of what our financial performance will be in the upcoming year.
We did want to be careful and to try and include in those numbers the dilution that will undoubtedly occur as we continue to prune our portfolio so that we do not have to revise guidance for those events that we definitely see will occur in this upcoming year.
The dispositions that we see in our pipeline are at this point in time pretty much all non-mall dispositions.
They are non-mall assets that we own in Arizona and also in Washington - the non-mall strip centers in Arizona urban villages and an office building that we own at Redmond Town Center.
Our development and redevelopment pipeline is continuing to proceed very nicely.
We have great clarity and vision and transparency into what our pipeline is.
They’re predominantly centered around three assets right now.
One is the building of Fashion Outlets of Chicago which will open in August of 2013.
The expansion of Fashion Outlets of Niagara which we anticipate will start construction on that.
We’ve already started the pre-leasing of it and that should be completed within the next two years or less.
And then we are in the ongoing mixed use development at Tyson’s Corner which will be coming online roughly in the fall of 2014.
If you add those three developments together our pro rata share of those developments is roughly $600 million and if you take a look at what we’ve reported our returns to be from the various components and were to average them out right now you’re looking at roughly 9% real going in cash on cash returns on balance from these developments.
And in each of the product types that we’re building and at the quality levels that we’re building we think that that represents first of all great additions to our portfolio.
They’ll definitely be significantly NAV accretive to our portfolio as well as add to our future earnings growth.
So we’re very optimistic about this upcoming year.
And I look forward to addressing our view on this upcoming year by opening it up to questions with you right now.
[Operator instructions.] And we’ll hear first from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I was wondering how you decided on the fixed assets to keep from the IBM portfolio.
Did you alternate ticks or just negotiate it out?  I’d love to give you a funny answer to that.
It was really simple.
It was really fast and amicable and we just sat down with our partner with whom we’ve enjoyed a good partnership there and came to a resolution on an appropriate split there in a relatively quick way.
And how are you coming on the plans for Atlas Corner?  Atlas Park is getting nice interest level.
We’re continuing to monitor the vacant land that’s being put on the market next door.
Let’s keep that in context.
Look it’s a small investment for us.
It’s in one of our core focus markets but it’s going to take a couple of years to go ahead and report tangible results there.
But we’re feeling very good about our investment there.
Can you do any updating on the pre-leasing of Tyson’s the mixed use there?  We’ve got very strong interest on the office side and we will be reporting those deals as they are signed.
The first deals that will be most likely announced will be large anchor deals.
That’s where we’re focused right now deals that would take significant portions of the building.
I don’t anticipate announcing those in the next quarter or two but I would anticipate this year they’ll be announced.
It’s still a full two years before the opening of the building.
And we’ll take our next question from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
I’m here with Marco as well.
Just in terms of guidance number for 2012 and I think you kind of mentioned that you had the $440 million of converts maturing which you would refinance with new 10-year mortgages.
I’m just curious as to what the interest rate differential would be between the converts and the mortgages.
I think the converts were on a GAAP basis at about 5.4% so I assume you would get the benefit of some accretion from that.
Yes really the source for paying off the converts will be the term note that we did in December for $125 million and then encumbering three or four of our currently unencumbered assets probably 10-year money.
The assumption would be a 4% interest rate or thereabouts and that would be taking out the converts which have a pay rate of 3.25 but a GAAP interest rate given the new accounting rules of about 5 or 5.5.
And that’s been factored into the guidance.
And then in the new line of credit is there a restriction on the size of the unencumbered asset pool?  No there’s no restriction on the unencumbered pool whatsoever.
In fact there’s no requirement to have an unencumbered pool.
And then I noticed that Prescott Mall it’s only small.
You’ve got a $60 million non-recourse mortgage.
It looks like that may be handed back.
Can you just talk through what happened at the asset and then maybe if you could give us what the NOI or what the FFO impact of that asset is.
I assume it might be a drag on FFO like Valley View was.
Yeah that was one of the assets that was part of the Westcorp portfolio that was acquired in 2002.
It is an Arizona market that’s more remote than we mostly operate in.
The loan is in maturity default and we are in negotiations with the servicer so it’s too early to tell the ultimate outcome.
But that asset is not refinanceable at that level today.
Lastly just in terms of occupancy over the year it was down 40 basis points.
Just curious as to what the driver of that was and whether or not some of it was - I assume it’s not the Simon joint venture assets because they haven’t come through yet so I’m just curious as to what the driver of that would have been.
Part of it we reported last quarter which we still see as a great opportunity is that we’ve assembled a block of 90 000 feet of street-level retail contiguous to North Bridge Mall just off of Michigan Avenue.
And so we de-leased three different tenants roughly 30 000 feet each and I’m sure that has a big amount to do with the occupancy levels.
And Tom in addition… Yeah there’s the day-to-day stuff but if you’re going to look at trying to say what was a major thing it’s clearly that 90 000 feet that we have assembled in terms of of an opportunity there for a major retailer or group of retailers.
It certainly weighs into that number heavily.
Yeah we got two blocks of space back subsequent to year end last year.
It borders an Anchor Blue and collectively they’re about in a 2000 square feet of vacancy we’re working through.
That’s about 70 basis points right there.
And we’ll continue on to Paul Morgan from Morgan Stanley.
You mentioned $300-$350 million of noncore asset sales.
You said something later - I’m not sure if I’m confused - how much of that is non-mall? The Arizona the Redmond stuff?  None of them would be malls.
None of them are malls.
Okay.
Are you contemplating given the recovery in the CMBS market possibly marketing some of the BC malls you thought about selling over the years?  You know look that’s an ongoing market that’s evolving but our disposition does not include the disposition of any mall assets even though we have a history and we have an intent to continue to prune the lower levels of our mall portfolio.
But the dispositions that we’ve identified that run through our numbers are not mall urban village strip center assets in Arizona and the single tenant office building up in Redmond.
And then you mentioned the developments at $600 million.
Do you have any color on planned redevelopment expansion spend over the next year or two? I know it’s usually quite a bit throughout your portfolio of opportunity there.
Can you talk about investment?  There’s nothing approved by our capital committee that we’re plowing forward on other than the three major developments that we talked about.
We have ongoing - you know $5 million and $10 million and $15 million - opportunities that we are currently revisiting and as those become entitled and validated we’ll give out numbers on those.
But all in $600 million is the total identifiable pipeline over the next 30 months.
And then just the last question on mortgage refi and it looks like you’ve got a few underlevered potentially assets.
I mean North Park coming through this year and Queensville that’s further down the road.
Are the plans to take out a lot more proceeds from a refi or anything specific in terms of mortgage maturities?  You know each of those will be measured on a case by case basis.
Right now we just wanted to balance out the funding of the retirement of the convertible debentures with a long term capital source and the long term capital source that we found to be the most attractive to us was to take some unencumbered assets and put 10-year fixed rate mortgages on them to accretively on an earnings but also in terms of the maturity level extend our maturities dramatically to retire that debt.
At this point in time we have nothing outstanding or little outstanding on our line of credit so we’re not actively out there looking to overfinance properties per se.
Clearly we have a ton of capacity in a lot of our different assets.
I’m not going to comment on the individual assets that you mentioned because even though from a coverage level you could infer that there’s opportunity to refinance for more dollars when you get up to a certain size and you’re talking $300 million $400 million $500 million of debt per property that’s quite a large loan in anybody’s mind.
So look we have a ton of capacity available to us in terms of an unused line of credit in terms of the fact that we really have no maturities that we have to deal with in terms of the fact that we’re going to have a construction loan for example that’s going to fund the Fashion Outlets of Chicago project.
We may look at doing one on the Fashion Outlets of Niagara project.
So we’re not really looking to overfinance so much.
We’re looking to appropriately finance to get the best rate in each circumstance.
We have the luxury of being able to do that at this point in our balance sheet career.
And we’ll take our next question from Christy McElroy with UBS.
Tom with respect to to 2012 guidance you mentioned $0.08 of dilution from the asset sales but just with regard to the 2013 maturities that you’re working on refinancing early how much of that is currently variable rate and what’s the projected dilutive impact included in your guidance from potentially fixing some of that? All of those are floating but they were done in 2008 and at that time there were some artificial LIBOR floors put into most of those loans.
I think the average rates we’d be rolling out of are between 3.5% and 4% so there will be some dilution but given where the Treasury rates are today 10-year moneys are under 2%.
And the spreads we’ve been hearing about there will be some dilution factored in but it’s a pretty good time to move out of those floating rate loans and go into fixed.
And just to make sure I heard you right the $425 million that’s all 2013? Right.
They’re loans that we can freely pay off today without a penalty but a lot of those were structured as three-year deals with two one-year extensions which takes them out to 2013.
But we like where rates are today so we’re not going to wait.
Thank just looking at your sales per square foot numbers on page six for the consolidated versus the unconsolidated portfolio I’m just looking at Q4 versus Q3.
I assume it was the transfer of the Simon JV assets from unconsolidated to the consolidated that kind of caused the consolidated number to go down quarter-over-quarter and the unconsolidated number to jump pretty materially higher.
Was there anything else going on there like a full quarter inclusion of Santa Monica Place? You’re right.
The biggest move was moving the Midwestern assets the six that we mentioned up into wholly-owned and out of the JV’s.
That was the biggest effect.
What was the sales per square foot on those assets? They were in the low 300s.
And if I look at each of those pools today the consolidated versus the unconsolidated do you have what the apples-to-apples year over year growth in sales would have been? On a same-center basis? I don’t have that Christy.
I’ll have to get back to you on that.
Okay.
And then just lastly just with regard to the noncore asset sales that you’re planning have you already begun to market the assets? And do you have any sense for cap rates that you could get? And what caused you to say now’s a good time to dispose of those? We’re pretty actively involved in three separate transactions and as such we’re really not going to talk about cap rates because it could hurt our negotiating position but obviously we factored these in to happen in the first half of the year so we’re obviously pretty comfortable with putting them in the guidance.
But we’re not in a position to talk about cap rates because we’re still negotiating and still in the middle of these transactions.
And we’ll give you the full color when we close.
And we’ll continue on to Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi good afternoon.
I’m on with Jordan Sattler as well.
With the development projects discussed in your prepared remarks over the next 30 months or so you didn’t mention Scottsdale Fashion Outlets.
Is that still on the table? Is that something you could give us an update on? It’s still on the table.
And we are continuing to talk to tenants about that.
And what we will do is take a look at the market as it develops.
What we will not do is contribute to an oversupply situation in that marketplace and if we come to the conclusion that the market is getting oversupplied with product of that nature we will go ahead and hold off moving forward with that project until the time that we feel it’s appropriate.
But that’s consistent with our thinking in Arizona throughout.
Because of our presence in that market we feel we own all of the best development sites and we have no pressure to develop any of them until we believe that they are right.
So in the same context that we feel we have the best development site in the west valley for the next traditional regional mall out in Goodyear back when things were rocking and rolling in 2006 and 2007 we thought that might open in 2009 or 2010 but you know everything in the Arizona market has been pretty well slid out five years.
As it relates to the Fashion Outlets of Scottsdale you know that’s a little bit different situation but it is a very competitive market.
There’s a lot of conversation about supply and if we find that the market is getting oversupplied we are not going to add to that.
We’ll still be sitting on the best property.
And we’ll bring it to the market when we deem it’s appropriate.
It could be sooner it could be later.
And then looking at your top tenant list it looked like you lost leases with almost every retailer on that list and I know you lost some malls through the Simon JV but do you expect to see these national retailers continue to close stores? And then who’s taking this space in these malls where you’re losing Gap and Abercrombie and the Limited brand stores? I’m not sure I’d use the word “lose” with The Gap.
There are many stores that The Gap would love to renew with many of their landlords but we have all found higher and better uses.
Not sure exactly what schedule you’re looking at but I can tell you on a qualitative level that we clearly have the same degree of credit quality tenant quality and breadth of platform quality throughout our portfolio overall and see that continuing in the future.
There could be some anomalies due to just some accounting or reporting requirements but there’s certainly nothing secular that’s going on.
And then just lastly a clarification I guess.
With regard to 2012 guidance and the $0.32 share positive impact from Valley View can you just clarify what the breakout is related to the FFO drag versus the gain from the debt transfer that you’re forecasting? It’s mostly gain from the debt transfer.
We think that’s going to happen within the next month or two so there’s a penny or two negative from operations but most of it is the gain on debt forgiveness.
We’ll take our next question from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Just wondered if you could provide an update on your outlook for occupancy by the end of the year? What are you looking for for 2012? Tom if you don’t mind why don’t you go ahead and let them know what the guidance assumptions are on occupancy.
But then I’ll give you more of just a market overview on how we view occupancies after Tom answers.
We include in our guidance a same-center NOI range of 2.5% to 3.5% and as you get to the top end of that range it takes the occupancy level up about 50 basis points on average compared to where it was this year.
[talk over] marketwise I clearly see occupancies improving across the portfolio on all levels.
And then maybe if you could just talk about the leasing velocity.
Fourth quarter it looked like it picked up nicely and I’m just wondering what you’re seeing so far early in 2012.
Is that continuing? Randy do you want to address that? The velocity is very strong.
There are many new and expanding tenants: C.
Wonder Kiehl’s Athleta Tesla Microsoft.
Leasing is very robust.
We’re seeing something new for the first time in a long time.
We’re seeing sub-brand tenant growth.
Nike has a new concept called Salvation.
Foot Locker has two concepts Run and House of Hoops.
Sports Authority TSA Elite.
Banana has a Banana Men’s concept.
So very positive going into 2012.
And just one last question.
Just wondering if we could get the regional breakdown of sales growth? Yeah Arizona was again close to the top of the list up about 11%.
Southern California was very strong after trailing most of the year.
Southern Cal was up about 15%.
Northern Cal 8% or 9%.
East was down a little bit at 7%.
That’s roughly the regional breakout.
And Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
I guess Tom I was just trying to get a little more clarity - I guess you answered a little bit on the same-store.
So at the high end you’re saying occupancy up 50 basis points.
How are you thinking about just kind of releasing spreads against the 13.7.
And I guess bad debt expense was a bit of a contributor to the growth this year given that it was down a couple million.
How are you thinking about bad debt in 2012? I mean $5 million portfolio-wide for a year is about a normal number.
So I don’t think that’s going to continue to trend down.
I think it’s moved down from a high of $12 million during ’08 ’09 to where it is today which is a normal level.
And all that by the way is not same-center.
Some of that’s going to relate to some of the assets that we already disposed of or will dispose of.
So if you look at the spread you’ve got expirations on consolidated centers of about $35 a foot in 2012 and about $41.5 to $42 on the JVs.
And we had a very strong third and fourth quarter.
As Randy said there’s a lot of leasing momentum and we see that continuing.
So we go through our budgeting tenant by tenant but I think we believe that we’re going to be able to continue to have strong double digit re-leasing spreads as we move through the year.
Would you anticipate the number being better in ’12 than ’11 just when you kind of roll it all up at the end of the year? Instinctively I would.
I mean we haven’t gone through and looked at every single space to come up with that number but certainly it seems like we have more momentum today than we had a year ago.
And Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors.
Tom when you look at debt financing nowadays what are the most attractive sources.
In the CMBS market? Or is it unsecured term loans? Or is it life insurance companies? Where do you get the most attractive terms? Well what we’re really focused on is long term fixed rate financing and as Art said we’re price-sensitive.
We’re rate-sensitive.
We’re not so much proceed-sensitive.
And I’ve spent time with most of the big life companies over the last month or so to see what their appetites are going into 2012 and they’ve almost all indicated that they’ve got allocations that are bigger than last year.
They’re very focused on quality and even though historically we haven’t seen life companies lending at levels close to 4% they’re very willing to do it.
I mean we may see some floors come in at 4% all in but from our standpoint that’s still pretty attractive.
So I’d say the life companies are the most attractive today.
They may not touch lower quality assets but if you had an asset that you wanted exposed to the CMBS market you’d probably be looking at a little bit higher leverage but also probably 50-100 basis points higher spreads.
So if the life company deals long term are 200 over the Treasury I would expect the CMBS in general to be - albeit at higher leverage levels but to me more like 300 over.
And just to amplify on that we’re really a life insurance company borrower and that is by far for our product type the most efficient market.
The life companies love our asset class.
They’re very aggressive.
In our earnings release we made reference to a 10-year all-in fixed rate financing of 4%.
I’d have to go back and check but I honestly don’t remember in my entire business career signing a 10-year fixed rate interest rate deal at sub-4%.
That is like an all-time great print and that’s the market though.
And it’s reflective of the quality of the asset the coverage that’s available.
As Tom said we’re not price-sensitive.
We are price-sensitive.
We’re not proceed-sensitive these days.
We have the luxury of being able to drive the best pricing.
And when you can borrow nonrecourse fixed rate between 4% and 4.5% ten years that’s something that’s very attractive to our company.
And you’re also dealing with lenders going forward that you can talk to and that’s just really important when markets get disintermediated in the future or when you have opportunities to do something positive to the real estate.
So that’s really always been our core source of debt capital.
I hope and I’m relatively certain that it will remain our core source of capital.
That doesn’t stop Tom and the team from tapping into different sources of other debt capital like the 7-year unsecured term loan that they were able to do at a very attractive yield.
But it’s reflective of very full appetite with the life company lenders to aggressively lend on this asset type.
And following up on a question that was brought up earlier the CMBS lenders - you know look they take confidence from this.
So they’re gradually moving back into the market.
We are seeing CMBS activity increase and yes it is possible going back to an earlier question that as that CMBS activity increases it could fuel some interest in B type of asset quality malls where we would be interested in combining buyers with CMBS loans to allow for some opportunistic pruning of those types of assets in the future.
But they’re not in our business forecast for the year but opportunistically we will take advantage of that situation if that window does open up for us this year.
And all appearances are that it does feel like it’s opening.
And just coming back to your Goodyear site I think in the past years you thought about a start date that would result in an opening date of 2014 and it appears to be delayed a little bit at this point.
What are the circumstances in the Phoenix market that may create that delay? There’s no circumstances other than we have no reason to build it until we can get what we think is very opportunistic return on our investment.
We don’t feel that the velocity of the wind at our back is sufficient to go and tie up that real estate for the 10-20 year terms that you’re going to tie it up at.
And we have the luxury of sitting on land at a very low basis that we can bring to market when we want to bring it to market.
Our buildout period - the plans have been pretty much done.
It’s really ready to go and it’s a 33-month start to finish project.
And when we’re ready to break ground you’ll have a 33-month heads up.
You don’t have a heads up today.
Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O’Neill.
Tom just thinking about once you take out the convert with the new encumbrances what percentage of the portfolio will be encumbered at that point? Well we still have about 10 assets that are unencumbered but that’s more than we’ve ever had before.
We are a nonrecourse long term fixed rate borrower which is fairly consistent in the mall business.
And in fact the 25 banks in our bank group are pretty comfortable with that because our revolver does not have any unencumbered pool requirement.
And we picked up some unencumbered assets as part of the swap of the IBM portfolio with our partner so we’ll still have at least a billion and a half give or take of value in the unencumbered asset pool after we go ahead and retire our converts by taking out mortgages on those assets.
Okay so it’s in rough numbers sort of the billion and a half or about 10 malls.
Is that fair? Give or take.
That’s in the ballpark.
Okay.
I’m just approaching it from the sense of flexibility that you can substitute assets in and out depending on what’s going on.
The second question is Tyson’s Corner the office maybe I missed it but did you say that you were starting the buildings already or you’re waiting until you sign anchors before you start building? We’re doing all of the infrastructure work which is really the long lead time work though there’s a significant amount of ring road realignment utility work.
All of that work is being done.
The hole for the subterranean garage for the office building is going to be dug and we’ve already ordered steel to frame in the hole and start pouring the foundations there.
So we’re moving along.
But would you go vertical before signing a tenant? Or you would do all that and then if there’s no tenant by the time you had finished you would just cap what’s there and wait? I fully anticipate that that project will open up in the fall of 2014.
If for any reason we felt it was appropriate to delay it from that point in time it’s no big deal from our viewpoint.
We will have done all of the infrastructure work but at this point in time the leasing environment for that particular location is very strong.
I know there’s a lot of noise in the marketplace about office leasing in the greater DC marketplace.
However it is northern Virginia and it is the only class A plus building that’s going to be on the market in the market three years from now and it is by far the only building that has the amenity package or the location that this particular building has and you have significant blocks of major office users in the northern Virginia market that are constantly having space roll over.
So at this point in time we think that we are in a landlord’s market.
Even though the overall market the noise in the market that would clearly indicate that there’s a lot of headwinds for other owners of office space in that market and in other submarkets of the DC marketplace but not for this building.
But is Lerner still going ahead or has he slowed down his? He’s still going ahead.
That’s not a factor though for us.
Look he doesn’t give his space away.
He’s good competition.
And if you could just remind us how big your building is? Just over 500 000 feet.
Very manageable.
And we’ll take our next question from Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
It looks like in the fourth quarter the same-store NOI decelerated to 1.7% and recoveries were a little bit lower.
Anything special going on there? Is that just one-time in nature? Yeah we had some adjustments to recoveries in the fourth quarter of ’10 that bumped up fourth quarter of ’10 so that was nonrecurring activity then that didn’t flow through ’11.
Okay and real quick Tom what would you say your target would be for fixed mortgages versus the variable at the end of the year excluding construction loans? Well we’re going to take a big chunk.
I think I mentioned we’ve got over $700 000 of 2013 maturities and those are floaters.
At least half of those will move to fixed so we’re going to be moving back closer to our historic levels for nonconstruction borrowing which is more like floating at 10-15% of the total.
Directionally it’s a great time to be taking floating rate debt and moving it into longer maturity fixed rate debt and that’s what we’re doing.
Yeah especially when you get the 4%.
So hopefully you guys might be able to get a three-handle soon so congratulations on that one.
Tom just three months ago talked about - because that’s where the market was three months ago - that look when you can do seven-year deals at 4.5% it’s a great time to be able to do it.
And in the meantime we just had a print at 10 years 4%.
So look you’re right we’re headed in the right direction but the preferred lenders on these assets are life insurance companies.
So they do have a certain floor below which they’re not going to go and even though the yield spreads to Treasuries etc.
might indicate something sub-4% that’s hard to imagine anytime soon.
We’re more than happy and feel that a 4% ten-year deal is eminently fair for all parties.
Ben Yang with KBW.
Based on your comments it’s clear that you’re not planning to do this but I’m curious if there was any consideration to maybe doing another round of converts to extend existing maturities? No no no no.
Is there even a market to do something like that today for you or anybody else? I don’t know because that word is banned here.
I have no idea.
There is a market Ben but it’s not something… No! [laughter] Sorry Ben we never talk about it.
Okay mum’s the word.
Switching gears one of your peers recently suggested that they might do spec outlet center development basically starting construction without any minimum level of pre-leasing.
Is that a strategy that you guys might also consider as you build out your platform? And is it something that you’re actually doing in Chicago given that I think you commented that you’re going to start construction pretty soon? And then you know you’d also recently stated that there’s a lot of competition nearby.
What are your thoughts on that? The competition I was talking about was in Arizona in the Phoenix marketplace.
I’m thinking about last quarter when you commented on Chicago.
Chicago we are far along in terms of our leasing activity there and we undoubtedly will be 50% signed and executed with a construction loan in place within the next 30 to 45 days.
So we’re very far along on the leasing there.
If anything we’re at the point on Chicago where we’re at a point to where we’re ready to slow down on the leasing because we’re so far along and as we get closer to the opening we think we’ll even get better rents.
We don’t have any hard and fast rules about spec development.
Look I have a hard time believing that we would necessarily do spec development of anything but look I can see building a building if I was just certain from the momentum that I had in the marketplace.
It could be an office building.
It could be Tyson’s Corner where we don’t have a signed lease but we have so much activity and so many conversations going on that we’re just not worried about it.
And if we’re building it off of our balance sheet anyway we don’t have a construction lender telling us what to do we could easily start construction.
And it could be that that’s what the competitor or peer that you were referring to had in mind.
Maybe they had in mind that look they get so much activity in terms of the leasing they’re not going to get a construction loan anyway and why should they constrain themselves with any rules out there.
So I can’t comment on other people’s thinking.
But look we don’t have a history of building projects before their time and that’s really the relevant question you know? Would we build a project before its time that would result in a project being very unoccupied or open up very weak? We don’t have a history of that and we don’t intend to start a history of that.
It’s not our style.
We will only build when we feel the time is right and that certainly applies to the north Scottsdale question that came up earlier.
I guess I thought maybe it was a possibility since you’re kind of doing that at the office space in Tyson’s.
Yeah so look any product type that we’re just so convinced - look we started construction on Santa Monica Place without any percentage of leasing done but that’s because we knew that the demand was very very strong.
We obviously got hit by a global turndown in luxury and all retail within a month of the time we started the demolition and the construction but it opened up well-occupied and it opened up with great sales and now we’re just doing better from there.
Our sector is generally blessed with strong landlords that are not out there repeating any of the mistakes that other business cycles and other sectors and other markets have committed over the last 35 years.
You’ve got four or five guys doing what we do and on balance you just don’t find oversupply situations.
You could find a submarket in a subcategory where you could have some oversupply that could - if we see that there’s oversupply in a situation like that like north Scottsdale in Phoenix we have no compulsion to bring any product whether it be a full-price mall in Goodyear or an outlet mall in north Scottsdale to market before its time.
We’ve got the best real estate in the market and we’re not going to bring it until it’s appropriate.
Are you still actively pursuing the outlet development in Phoenix at this point? I thought I already answered that but the question would be it’s very high on our radar screen.
And Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Just a quick question in regards to the leasing organization at Macerich.
We recently heard that it was realigned whereby leasing staff is now aligned more by property rather than by accounts.
Just curious what drove that change and what the results of that change have been in regards to leasing activity at the company.
Yes we recently realigned our leasing organization.
We decided to put our best people on our best projects and to flatten it out to accelerate the leasing process to have owners of particular properties.
And so far it’s been very well-received by both our staff and the retailers.
It’s certainly not anything we announced so you must have one heck of a good source of information within Macerich.
It’s certainly not a reorganization.
It’s not anything to take huge note of.
It’s really just a tweaking of the way that we do business.
But if you were to be in our offices we tweak our business every minute of every day.
Did you have any staff turnover as a result of the change? There wasn’t a change.
The realignment.
Whatever source of information you think you have is overrated is all I’m telling you.
It was a tweak.
Thank you.
And we will take our final question from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Two quick ones.
First of all is there any update on Broadway Plaza and then secondly Tom can you give us some numbers in terms of what’s baked into guidance for lease term and [unintelligible] gains? I’ll start with Broadway Plaza and the update is that we are moving along with our entitlement plans with the city of Walnut Creek.
The community has embraced our ideas in terms of how we want to intensify that property.
We are eagerly looking forward to the opening of what we think is just going to be a fabulous Neiman Marcus store at Broadway Plaza in Walnut Creek on March 8 of this year and we invite you all to come out and take a look at it.
And to the extent that we believe that there’s an opportunity to expand that center significantly by as much as through recycling square footage to recapture and to create another 200 000 feet of specialty space we think it’s an opportunity to take that property from being a very high-performing smaller regional center to an extremely high-performing super-regional luxury center.
And we think it’s probably - somebody asked us 15 months ago where is your next Santa Monica Place and we speculated that it was Walnut Creek a year and a half ago.
And my view on that today is that it’s really beginning to feel like that’s our next huge opportunity to take a property up to the next level.
So we’re really bullish on what’s happening in the Bay Area.
The Bay Area is on fire from a retail perspective and Walnut Creek is one of the best submarkets one of the most sought-after markets in the entire Bay Area.
You can’t find a better retailer that doesn’t want to be there.
So we’re really bullish on that.
It’s not in our 30-month projected pipeline of activity but if it happens and we get the entitlement that’s a project that could easily be in our future and could be a project that we could be inviting you to the new expanded grand reopening of the center four years from now.
But it’s not in our 30-month pipeline that we’ve been discussing today.
But it’s definitely in the year after that as a possibility just as there are other things out there as possibilities that we’ve already talked about.
And Tom do you want to address that other question? Yeah.
Mike in terms of lease terminations we had - just as a frame of reference actual in 2011 was $13.4 million.
And we factored $12 million into the 2012 budget.
That’s a pretty light assumption looking back on recent history.
We’ve probably averaged over the last six or seven years more like $15 million or $16 million but we’ve got $12 million in the guidance.
And there’s nothing for land sales in the guidance.
And we have no additional questions.
I’ll turn things back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us.
We look forward to seeing you as the year progresses.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Macerich Company first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question and answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to cue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded and now would like to turn the conference over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Hi and thank you everyone for joining us today on our first quarter 2012 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainty and risk associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company's press release and SEC filings.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come I believe that it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC's regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8K page filings for the quarter which is posted in the investor section of the company's website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors Ed Coppola President Tom O'Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
With that I will turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Jean and welcome everyone.
Today we are going to be discussing the first Quarter results capital activity and our outlook for 2012.
As we expected during the quarter fundamentals continued to improve.
Retail sales had a strong increase and same-Center NOI was positive for the ninth quarter in a row.
The re-leasing spreads showed double digit increases.
Although occupancy dropped slightly it remained at a very healthy level of 92.1%.
Leasing volume and spreads were both good.
Leases signed during the quarter amounted to 216 000 square feet.
The average new starting rent was $46.06 per foot.
The average re-leasing spread on a trailing 12 month basis is 15.8%.
Average rent per square foot in the entire portfolio was up 5% to 45.87% compared to March 31st 2011.
Occupancy cost as a percentage of sales dropped to 12.9% compared to 13.5% a year ago.
Looking at the results for the quarter adjusted FFO which excludes the impact of Valley View was $0.76 per share up from $0.52 per share in the first quarter 2011.
The operating results were good including same-center NOI growth excluding termination revenue and SFAS 141 income was 3.4% for the quarter.
Lease termination revenue was up nearly $800 000 to $2.9 million.
Bad debt expenses are up somewhat at $800 000 compared to $400 000 in the first quarter of last year.
With Management company expense and REIT G&amp;A expense were down Management company expense was down approximately $3 million to $22.5 million and REIT G&amp;A was down to $4.5 million compared to $7.6 million in the first quarter of last year.
That was due to the first quarter of 2011 being usually high in both of those categories as there was a full years' worth of bonuses accrued in the first quarter of 2011.
Subsequent to that bonuses are accrued throughout the year with 25% of the estimated amount booked in each quarter.
That change accounts for the drop in both categories for both REIT-G&amp;A and Management company expense.
During the quarter we also booked an impairment loss on Valley View.
Valley View has been a hands and loans service since mid-2010.
On April 23rd last week it was sold for approximately $33 million and concurrently with the sale the debt and all the accrued interest was forgiven.
As of quarter end because the sale price that was expected in April was less than our carrying value of $88 million we recorded a impairment write-down of $55 million in the first quarter of '12 that hits net income but not FFO.
Then in the second quarter we turned around on April 23rd with the asset sale we booked a gain on extinguishment of debt of $104 million.
We have not included the impairment nor the gain on extinguishment of debt in our AFFO numbers.
Valley View and the attached financial highlights of this morning's press release was included in discontinued operations.
Looking at our balance sheet our debt to market cap at quarter-end was 42.3%.
Net debt to EBITDA was 7.6 times and our interest coverage ratio is a very healthy 2.57 times.
Looking at recent loan activity in March we closed on a $140 million loan on Pacific View.
That was a non-encumbered asset.
We put a 10-year fixed rate financing in place at 4.08%.
Also in March we paid off $438 million of the remaining convertibles debentures.
Those debentures are now paid in full.
During the quarter we also put a $140 million bank construction loan on the Fashion Outlets of Chicago.
That loan is extendable for a full maturity of five years and floats at LIBOR plus 2.50.
In addition we received a commitment for $220 million of fixed rate financing on the Oaks.
The new loan has a fixed rate of 4.11 and a 10-year term and we expect that to close within the next week or two.
In addition we are currently getting fixed rate quotes on Chesterfield and Rimrock two currently unencumbered assets.
The proceeds from those financings are estimated to be $160 to $180 million and those proceeds will be used to reduce floating rate debt on our line of credit.
We also expect a significant amount of excess loan proceeds when we refinance Queens later this year and those proceeds will also be used to reduce outstandings on our line of credit.
Excluding the loans that have built-in extension options we only have $150 million of 2012 loan maturities remaining.
In terms of FFO guidance in this morning's earnings release we maintained our adjusted FFO per share guidance with a range of 6-314.
The guidance range excludes the impact of Valley View both the impairment as well as the gain on extinguishment of debt.
Although we beat guidance in the first quarter we are not prepared to increase guidance at this time.
We will readdress it after the second quarter.
Looking at tenant sales tenant sales continued to improve.
Mall tenant sales per foot for the trailing 12 months ended March 31st 2012 came in at $504/foot.
That's up 12.3% compared to portfolio mall tenant sales per foot a year ago which was $449.
At this point I'd like to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom and welcome to our call.
As you can see from the numbers our leasing rents and our same center NOI have had very good growth and continued good growth here over the last 5-6 quarters.
The outlook is really quite strong on the leasing front and that's really buoyed by the fact that we have strong sales increases across the board that we have a great product offering and that our centers are faced with very little impending competition.
Our occupancy levels will continue to improve over the course of the next year or so.
One of the reasons that we have not seen spikes in occupancy is that we have been a little bit stingier in terms of the rents that we are willing to accept because we are in a very strong landlord oriented market today.
I foresee this being a landlords' market for quite the foreseeable future.
For me the foreseeable future is the next 3-5 years.
There's been a lot of focus lately on cost of occupancies and sales trends with tenants and while sales have been extremely good with tenants and while I'm thrilled to see comps center sales increases across the board to me the more important story has been what I have been saying for the past six quarters which is that the retailers have very strong operating margins.
When you multiply strong operating margins by strong sales levels and positive comp sales results you find yourself a retailer who has cash on their balance sheet they're making money and they're looking to expand their footprint and their store count across the board.
That makes for a very strong leasing environment.
We think that's an environment that we're going to be able to tap into for years to come.
Helping us to tap into that I'd like to welcome to our executive team as an Executive Vice President of Leasing at Macerich Bobby Perlmutter he's a well-known industry veteran.
I've known Bobby and Eddie and I've known Bobby for 20 years now.
He's got a long history formerly running mall operations at Heitman Financial back in the 1990s when they had investments at up to 48 malls and more recently is the managing partner and founder of Davis Street Properties which he recently wound down.
He joined us April 23rd.
I see him helping us dramatically in terms of our merchandising of our centers.
That's really the key to the future for us because now we can begin to focus more so on merchandising being more selective on the retailers that we accept so that we can drive sales to even greater levels by bringing in the most productive retailers from that results with the greater rents.
Obviously that turns into greater same center analyzed as we move forward.
On the development front things look great right now.
Tyson's Corner continues to move along on target and progress is very good there on the leasing front.
We have nothing to announce in the office leasing.
We talked about that in detail in our last call but things aren't looking very good there.
Fashion Outlets of Chicago is well over 50% signed in executed leases and the vast majority of the space has been committed to.
We're looking at a fall of next year opening and we're very excited about that.
We are currently in the pre-leasing phase of the expansion the 150 000 square foot or so expansion of Fashion Outlets of Niagara.
That's being extremely well-received by retailers and we see that opening also within the next two years.
During the quarter at Broadway Plaza in Walnut Creek the much awaited Neiman Marcus store opened there.
Talking to the Neiman's folks it's probably one of the most beautiful stores that they've ever built.
It's a small edited version store which is samatic to the trends in department stores today which is to try and build more productive stores.
It's just under a 90 000 foot store.
Other retailers of the center have seen huge sales increases as coincident with the entry of Neiman Marcus to the center.
Nordstrom in particular has seen great increases by the introduction of Neiman and this just further bolsters our confidence that we need to find a way to expand Broadway Plaza.
We're in talks with the city.
We're in a critical juncture there in terms of looking at different ways to expand the center.
When we have more details there we will certainly share them with you.
This is a great location a great anchor line up and we really see it as one of our next great centers.
During the quarter a little bit of significant note actually is that we purchased 500 North Michigan Avenue.
That's an office building complex which is contiguous to our North Bridge Mall in Chicago downtown Chicago.
The reason that we purchased this is that it is the missing link to the ownership that we have there of the square block bounded by Michigan Avenue.
On the east Rush on the west Illinois and Grand.
It's the missing piece that the original developer had not been able to assemble.
By buying this office building we currently have plans to consolidate the first five levels of office space into a new three level iconic probably 40 to 45 000 square foot retail store with a possibility of integrating that store into Northbridge Mall.
There's furthermore the possible addition of an additional expansion to that retail location on the first level just to the south of the 500 Michigan Avenue location maybe a 20 000 foot anchor store.
When you're talking about Michigan Avenue where street level rents are approaching $400 a square foot and it's really enjoying a transformation.
We think this is going to be a very important piece to the repositioning and taking of Northbridge Mall to the next level.
Northbridge is a terrific mall it's anchored by Nordstrom it's been rumored that that's the number one Nordstrom in terms of sales in the United States.
It has huge upside and the acquisition of 500 North Michigan is going to enable us to tap into that upside.
So we are very bullish on our operating fundamentals.
We are very patiently working on expanding our footprint in our core markets; New York D.C.
Chicago and the west coast.
I'd like to open it up for questions at this point in time.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go first to Christy McElroy from UBS.
Hi good morning guys.
Tom I just wanted to go back to your guidance with regard to the first quarter you guided to roughly 21% of the full year implying a rate of $0.64 to $0.66.
Can you walk us through all the different factors that cause the actual result to be much higher than you expected? What was recurring versus non-recurring and why wouldn't that then translate into a higher full year forecast? Well there are a lot of factors Christy.
One in particular is that we ended up with 3 million or so of lease termination revenue and that's a number that frankly every year is a guess.
When we look back on history we had forecast 12 million but we hadn't forecast any of it coming in the first quarter.
So that's a piece of it.
We had slightly higher SFAS 141 income as a result of some of the acquisition activity that we've had over the last nine months.
Also some straight lining of rents as a result of tenant changes which went our way.
So there were a few pickups there that may not be recurring.
Remember when we gave guidance we also indicated that we would have asset sales in the range of 300 - 350 million and we factored in some dilution there.
It's too early to conclude one way or another on how that will go.
We've got roughly either closed or under contract $100 million of those sales that's another part of it.
We've also got quite a bit of financing in the works right now.
We'll be in a much better position at the end of next quarter to address it than we are at the end of just one quarter.
I think you had talked about in the last call $0.08 of dilution regarding the asset sales is that something you will revisit next quarter as far as how much dilution you'll ultimately see? Right we'll take a look at all the major assumptions and do an update at that point.
You've talked about encumbering some of your unencumbered assets I think a $2 billion pool you've talked about do you have any restrictions on your unencumbered asset base in any of the covenants on your credit line? No none whatsoever there's no requirement for an unencumbered pool.
With regard to Fashion Outlets of Chicago can you talk about how the project economics will work with AWE Talisman.
Are there any fees being paid to either party? What's the total project cost and what's your share in the construction line? Yeah I think we've disclosed that in the past but I'm happy to review that again.
Our ownership in the project is 60% fee simple ownership today.
We will be funding the equity component of the project and the loan is about $140 million.
The total cost is around $200 million.
We anticipate a double digit cash-on-cash return and we have the right on a formula basis to look at buying out the 48% interest owned by AWE Talisman after a period of time.
I think three years after the grand opening.
We're very very excited about the project and it's shaping up to be a terrific project.
We'll take the next question from Rich Moore RBC Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Another mall CEO this morning Art said that there's a department store resurgent do you see something similar going on as well? To look at all of our retailers the retail environment is very healthy and that just goes across all sectors.
It even includes the national retailers whether they be department stores or specialty stores.
They've quit giving merchandise away and they quit doing it the fall of March 2009.
They gave up chasing sales and started chasing operating margins.
When you go back and you make a secular change to your business model and you figure out how to make money again you're going to have a resurgent.
Yeah there very healthy all of our retailers across the board are in very good shape.
The addition of a Neiman Marcus that kind of thing or similar department stores could appear more often in your portfolio you think? Well it has occurred on a non-recurring recurring basis every year that we've done business.
I mean we're constantly recycling and adding and subtracting and repositioning anchor stores.
I'd hate to think of how many we've done over the past 35 years but it's a very large number.
I bet we've recycled 40% of our anchor space in the last 15 years alone.
All right.
Okay good.
Thank you.
When you think about densification.
You know the addition of office space and multi-family space that had gotten so much attention and then kind of resurged again.
I mean do you still find that to be a good idea in general? Are you going to be doing maybe more of that going forward? Right now our plans are limited to Tyson's Corner.
That's it for now.
But we clearly we've got a great project in the works there and we're doing it for all the right reasons.
It's adding 8 000 visitors per day to the customer base who live there or work there that are currently not there.
It's going to be great for the mall.
We're making money on each of the components.
We just think that in a transit-oriented development which this is as the rail comes to the site that's it's appropriate.
It's going to happen all around you so you might as well be a part of that.
Not just be an old suburban mall stuck into the middle of a new central business core.
That's really what drives it.
It's not a panacea to go mixed juice but where it's appropriate and it's really the most appropriate where you have a transit oriented development.
Okay great.
Thank you Art.
Then Tom real quick on the variable rate debt.
I think it's around 50% at the end of the quarter of the debt portfolio.
You mentioned some of the activities you're doing that will bring that down.
Does that take you you think overall back to maybe the 20% level? That kind of...
I think by the time Rich by the time we get to the end of the year it's going to be under 20%.
Subsequent to quarter end we had $140 million of proceeds that came in on Pacific View Financing.
That was used to pay down variable rate debt.
The Oaks which I mentioned is going to go from floating rate debt to fixed.
That's $220 million.
The excess proceeds on Queens Queens Financing will be fixed and that will go to pay down floating.
Almost every move we make on the financing front is going to be reducing the floating rate debt.
Okay and most of these fixed rate loans probably in the 4% plus range 4%-5%? They're in the low fours Rich.
They're in the very low fours.
I don't think we've even done one over 4.25% lately.
It continues to be a fantastic environment to be a borrower especially fixed and long term.
You can break 4% you can get into the threes depending on your term.
Yeah if you went for a five or a seven year deal you'd be under 4% easily today.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Rich.
The next question comes from Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Hey Nathan.
Hi good morning.
How are you doing? Just another thing on the balance sheet.
Long term debt is readily available but at the same time you do have quite a bit of activity.
You have two projects in Chicago Tysons and Niagara.
Are the asset sales going to be enough in your mind to keep that level in check or do you foresee things coming back to the equity bargains? No I think if you look at the asset sales Nate and then keep in mind we are not talking about developing into a five or five in a half percent return on cost.
We are developing these projects with double digit returns the value in the end is going to be a cap rate substantially below that.
In the development of that nature there is an embedded piece of equity there that is not going to stretch our ratio so the balance sheet is in great shape.
I see no need to do that with the absent of any mid-draft position activity.
Just to further our math over the next three years are development activity on Fashion Outlets of Chicago Niagara and Tysons and those are really the only three that are clearly in our open to buy pipe line.
Our total share of those of that outlay of dollars is not more than $400 million.
When you have a $2 billion pool of unencumbered asset that's why we created that pool was to create the fire power to fund new developments redevelopments expansions so we are in very good shape.
Our development pipeline is really self funded at this point in time.
Okay thanks.
Having recently visited Desert Sky I think it's finally understanding what you are trying to do there.
Let's talk a little bit about how it's evolving at Desert Sky and the other malls that you plan to replicate and what is your long term view of these assets? Would you say that they're foreign and you would like to hold on to them or is it that you trying to get them to a certain place perhaps package them and sell them off? We are just trying to maximize the productivity and the profitability of centers that have more than 50 percent of their primary trade area servicing one ethnic group and in that particular case of Desert Sky as well as four other of our properties.
We find ourselves with half a dozen properties or well over half of our primary trade area is Hispanic.
We feel that centers that are located with that primary customer base need to be marketed different they need to be leased differently and operated differently then shopping malls in different demographic profiles.
I think we are learning a lot in terms of how we go about the marketing the leasing and the operating centers that are primarily located in Hispanic-ally dominated trade areas.
To me I would rather figure that out than expand my business operation to South America quite frankly.
When you take half of the population growth in the United States in the next 40 years it is going to come from that segment of our population.
It is the fastest growing and probably what has the highest disposable income.
It's really good business sense to try to figure out a way to maximize your productivity in those markets given our base.
Again in southern California given this is the melting pot of the world we are constantly learning how to cater to different ethnic groups.
In Cerritos we think about how can we cater best to the Asian predominance and population that we have there.
In Queens we try to figure out how cater best to the 89 different language speaking groups that are in our immediate trade area.
The main paradigm is being in touch with your customer and that's just all we're trying to do at Desert Sky.
Where we go with it in terms of core and non-core is unknown.
Because personally I believe in that business.
I believe that there's great upside there.
I believe that there is an opportunity and we'll just have to see how that plays out.
You cannot ignore as an owner the fact that 50% of the growth and population in the United States is going to be Hispanic-based in the next 40 years.
You cannot ignore that.
One would be foolish to ignore it.
Do you get any sense from the national retailers that they're taking a fresh look at that mall now that you've actually changed it a little bit? Yes we're actually educating them.
I met with a CEO of a national retailer recently and I said "You know we do really well in our Hispanic trade areas." He says "Yes I know we do.
That's our largest customer base." And I said "Your real estate and research people don't know that." He said "Yes I know.
I need to help educate them to that." But there's a whole bunch of retailers that do particularly well in that particular demographic segment.
So yes people like Vans Aeropostale Journey.
There are a whole bunch of retailers that do particularly well and we're going to populate our centers with those folks.
A lot of it though is marketing.
We have a whole different marketing calendar in centers like Desert Sky.
It's really just being in touch with our community.
That's all.
Okay.
And then if you just look at the Phoenix area mall in your portfolio.
Where are sales today versus where they were pre-crash? Do you have that handy? Yes.
We have caught up with pre-crash as we've mentioned on the prior calls.
Phoenix is one of our best markets in terms of sales growth and that continued to be the case in the first quarter.
The Arizona market which is predominantly Phoenix for us the Arizona region was up 9.4%.
Do you know what that is on just a dollar basis? Not off the top of my head Nate.
I'm sure it's in excess of 2007 sales levels in Arizona because for Arizona the crash really started in late spring of '08.
All right thanks.
Thank you.
We'll take the next question from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Yes hi.
Thanks.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the timing of the Michigan Avenue office building purchase.
How much did it cost? When did you buy it? Anything else on economics you can give us? Sure we paid $70 million for it and we bought it February 29th of this year.
And we bought it at between 6% and 7% going in return.
The opportunity here is really to reposition that first five levels of office building space into three levels of retail.
So we're going to increase the ceiling heights and create a really iconic retail location there.
And our belief that the real opportunity here is to take a retail store of linear frontage all the way from Grand Avenue to Illinois.
And have one continuous seamless retail store front there on Michigan Avenue that we can offer to retailers.
Our belief is that we'll get more rent out of the first 45 000 feet of this 324 000 foot office building in net operating income than we got from the entire building when we bought the building.
And then we'll have basically bought the top 15 floors not for free but that will be gravy.
And long time after we carve out the retail street retail component condominimize the building and sell off the upper office levels off to a natural office user.
We bought the building to get our hands on the street retail and to turn it into street retail.
Okay.
That's a retail store that we're currently showing to retailers today.
So it could easily be something that retailer it's going to be an iconic retailer most likely.
It's going to be a flag ship most likely there's a lot of flag ships being created on Michigan Avenue.
Burberry is building a new 5-story building Top Shop just came All Saints just came.
There's a whole bunch of retails doing major stores on the street there.
It wouldn't be out of the question for that store to be open in 18 months-2 years.
But depending on how big of an integration that we try and accomplish between that building and the mall.
There's one plan that we have that actually takes that office building and has it seamlessly integrated into the mall itself so that's a possibility.
Okay.
The dollars are not that great actually because we moved very quickly on that of that acquisition.
And our partner in the Alaska Permanent Fund in the mall we've offered them the right to be our partner in it which undoubtedly they'll take us up on.
And the total redevelopment dollars to create this street front retail opportunity and repositioning is less than $25 million.
So our half of that is half of that kind of number.
So it's not a huge capital event but it's a very big repositioning event profit event.
Okay.
Great.
And then maybe switching gear again on the asset sales going back to that.
You closed at $65 million.
I think Tom mentioned you have $100 million that's closed or underway so it sounds like another $35 million is in the works.
I mean should we think about with the initial target being $300 million to $350 million does it still feel like you'll end up doing that this year? Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
And the balance of that pipeline will likely close in the second quarter and we'll disclose those events as they occur.
Okay.
Great.
And last question.
I mean the reported leasing spreads have been ticking up each of the past few quarters.
And color or commentary in terms of what you're seeing and signing toady relative prior to the 12-month rolling levels of about 16%? Is it comparable? Is it still ticking up? The numbers you always have to be careful of.
The quality of leasing and the pace of the leasing and the interest levels that we've got is extremely strong.
So on a color viewpoint on a qualitative viewpoint it's very strong.
Sometimes a 12% leasing spread if it's up against some huge rents that a re experiencing can be more impressive than a 20% leasing spread against some more modest rents.
But look over the past 18 months the leasing environment has improved dramatically.
It is very strong right now and I see no reason that it's going to be anything other than very strong for the next three to five years.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And moving next we'll go to Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Hey Craig.
Hey.
Given Vornado's statement that everything is on the table I wondered if you would say is there an interest on your part looking their mall portfolio and in particular I'm thinking of Green Acres Mall.
Well they have some properties that are in the markets that we have indicated that we would like to expand our presence.
Clearly their in the greater New York area.
It's no secret that we love doing business in the boroughs of New York.
And that's a high priority for growth for our company.
We talked about that actually in our shareholders letter 14 months ago that we were going to be primarily on Chicago New York DC LA and San Francisco and Arizona for our growth opportunities.
We've been delivering on our growth in those markets over the past 14 months and we see great opportunities to grow in those markets in the future and that could be part of it.
Look we have a we love doing business in melting pots.
My office our office is here in the center of the melting pot of the world Los Angeles.
We know how to do business in melting pots and certainly centers that Vornado owns kind of fits that demographic profile.
Great and do you know off hand the size of the Neiman Marcus at Broadway? 88 000 feet.
Great.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll take the next question from Quentin Velleley from Citi.
Hi how are you? Hi Quentin.
Just in terms of the going back to floating rate debt and the line of credit which I think about $800 million drawn now that you've bought back to convert.
How should we think about where that line balance is sort of going to be by the end of the year? If you put in the unencumbered assets that you're putting mortgages against at the moment some excess proceeds in the asset sales.
Will the loan sort of be down to about $300 million by the end of the year? Is that a fair assumption? Only if Art goes out and buys something.
It should be a lot lower than that Quentin.
It's at $640 today because we used the cash that was on the balance sheet at quarter end [from Pacific View to pay that down.
We could generate $180 million or so from Chesterfield and Rimrock refinancing.
That will take it down to under $500 million.
As we mentioned we've got asset sales planned for the year.
The excess proceeds there we'd use.
I'd say comfortably and conservatively we'll be under $200 million by year end.
Then maybe if we just go back to 500 North Michigan where are you holding that out on the balance sheet? Is that in CIP because I think CIP went up by about $100 million over the quarter? No it's not in CIP.
CIP the change in CIP is primarily for Fashion Outlets in Chicago because construction started on that.
Got it.
And then with 500 North Michigan the office tenants in there are there development clauses in their leases? Is it a simple exercise to get them to exit the building or is there some more work that needs to go in there? Well nothing's ever simple.
But it's manageable.
Okay.
Then just lastly in terms of Valley View I think it was a $2.6 million negative impact on FFO in the quarter.
Just for NAV purposes can you break out what the NOI was that you got for Valley View in the quarter? NOI has been running negative Quentin.
I think it's running roughly $500 000 negative a quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Hey Paul.
Hi good morning.
Do you have the rest of the regional break out for sales? Yeah we've got most of it here.
As I said Arizona was 9.5% Southern California was 15.9% Northern California about 8% central region 13.4% and eastern region was at the low level of 7.2%.
That was the range.
Southern California being the high eastern being the low and everything else in between.
Anything in particular you have got quite a bit down there in Southern California any particular striving at 16%? Santa Monica Place.
Well that is really across the board though you have got the Oaks' doing really well Cerritos is on fire we have had double-digit increases there at Cerritos but it is really across the board.
The thing about the spreads is you guys present your spreads quite conservatively and not everybody does it the exact same way.
Do you have the GAP spreads as well? No we really don't look at that Paul because we are moving towards all of our leases being on CPI anyway.
It would obviously expand that because of the effect of the straight lining of rents would make that spread even wider but it is not something that we track internally.
We switched 8 years ago to structuring our leases with CPI increases and so straight lining of rent has been a dwindling number for us over the past 4 5 or 6 years.
We basically traded annual CPIs for stepped rents and had we remained with all of our leases being stepped rents if you think about it back in the day and probably today the average step rents have rents going up 20% over the course of a new 10 year deal say 10% or more during the first 5 years and another 10% somewhere else.
So if we still had those types that lease structure I think if I do the math correctly it seems to me that our spreads would be 10% higher across the board.
But we do not do that.
Do you look at it on a gross basis like some folks do too? No this is the minimum rent versus expiring minimum rent.
Okay.
I guess that is it for me.
Everything else is taken care of.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We will take the next question from Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning.
First question; on the construction loan at the Chicago Outlets we have not seen a whole lot of construction financing for large projects like this particularly an outlet and I was just wondering what the demand was like from the lending community for that financing and whether or not you expect to see more construction financing becoming available for outlet space overall from the banks today? Well Todd I think it is a function of the strength of the sponsor in the project.
And the leasing status of the project.
We are not going to comment on the state of outlet financing across the board.
We are only going to comment on that one project.
But it was led by two very strong banks that are part of our line group.
It was a typical construction loan and they were very happy to get involved with the project.
As Art said it was over 50% pre-leased and even higher than that in terms of what has been committed so it is a good loan from the bank's standpoint and I we are happy to move forward with that.
Okay.
Then based on what retailers are telling you and what you're seeing are you still projecting sales at the outlet center to be $800 a square foot or an excess of that? We're not going to project that today but we think it's going to be a very very strong center in those type of sales results as it matures are clearly in my view possible.
Okay.
Then just as you mentioned Queens Center is also a refinancing opportunity.
I was just wondering that loan has a March 2013 maturity date when is that open for prepayment? That opens up later this year for prepayment.
We are in conversations with the existing lender today who's got an interest in taking a look at that early.
Its spots are by a life insurance company so we have the ability to talk to them about a blend and extend program where you extend the loan and increase the size early without getting into the old maintenance issues.
That's the nice thing that you get when you're dealing with lenders that you can talk to as opposed to publicly securitized debt.
Okay.
Then just lastly I was just wondering we've heard a lot about the warmer weather both impacting expenses and also sort of tenant sales during the quarters as consumers may have been sort of out and about a little bit more.
Any evidence that the warmer winter poled fall or demand that we may see that trend sort of reverse a little bit in April or May? No.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank You.
We'll take the next question from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Hi good afternoon everyone.
Hey Tayo.
Quick question on the outlet center space.
Given all the competition and the space wondering how you guys are assessing in an opportunity for you guys to build your portfolio.
Sure.
Yeah when we announced that we would be entering into the outlet space we said that we were going to only be pursuing locations that we felt had the opportunity to be dominant centers in the space.
Since we restricted ourselves to that type of quality profile we indicated that look if we own five or seven outlet centers after five years into this program that would be success.
I would say that is probably still the way we view it.
That if we own five or seven or a few more strong outlet centers after our first five years of introduction into the outlet arena that I would be very happy with our status.
We're certainly in no race for size or in no race to deliver.
We think that it's a natural compliment to our core businesses but our goal in being involved in the outlet arena is to be involved with what we view as core type of projects.
We have pretty modest expectations on the outlet side.
But the nice thing about a company that is big enough to matter like we are but still small enough to be nimble and to move the needle is that you add five strong outlet centers to a portfolio of our size that moves the needle very considerably over a period of five years.
That's helpful.
Could you give us a sense of what kind of markets in general would kind of meet your definition of a market you would be interested in? The starting point is the markets that we currently are strongly interested in.
Which is the West Coast the East Coast Chicago and Arizona.
Sounds good.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We'll take the next question from Ben Yang from KBW.
Yeah hi.
Thanks.
Hi.
Hi how you doing? Art you made a comment that the development front looks great and you talk about some of your near term plans but you did not mention Phoenix.
But at the same time you also talked about sales in this market coming back pretty strong.
It seems like round up development here might be only a matter of time.
I was hoping you could just remind us first how much land you own or control in and around Phoenix and then maybe if you had any thoughts on what this land is worth today and even how investors should think about valuing this opportunity for you guys.
Well we have control of land in different pockets.
Sometimes we have options on land.
Sometimes we own the land like we own the land for the new mall that we'd like to build in West Phoenix in Goodyear.
We own that land.
It's at a fairly nominal cost there.
We do not have we have not announced an opening date for that.
We own land in North Scottsdale on Scottsdale Road in the 101.
We have not announced any plans for construction there.
We own land north of Tucson between Tucson and Phoenix in Murano.
These are parts of the growth corridors in Phoenix.
But until we announce that we're coming out of the ground I would not try and monetize those land positions in terms of the way you view that land.
As we announce the projects the value of the land will be evident in the overall returns the expectations that we expect to see.
We own all of the land that we own free and clear.
We don't owe any money against any of it I don't think.
Right Tom? We own it all free and clear.
Correct.
It's a non-income producing asset that we think will serve us well in the years to come.
We think we own the right land in the right locations.
But we are committed to the idea of only building when we think it is time to build.
When you have a market like Phoenix where you control the best land you're in no rush to build something before it's time.
We're not going to build projects in Phoenix before their time.
Got it.
I mean it just seems like maybe a few years from now it could be the most interesting part of your story.
I mean it's 1000 acres or even more than that? Is that the opportunity that's in front of you guys obviously several years down the road? It's less than 500 acres total.
It's a full site in west Phoenix.
It's a full site in north Scottsdale.
There's other land holdings that we have that would serve smaller developments but those are the primary sites that we've got.
We control land in different ways.
We have a right of first refusal on 2000 acres of land on the west side of Scottsdale Road and the 101.
It's nothing to have that right of first refusal on state owned land.
You said 2000 acres? 2000 acres.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And a final one on the balance sheet is there any reason your average maturity on your debt hasn't really moved over the past few years? It's kind of still where it was before the crisis and much lower than what your peers are reporting.
Do you guys report maturities excluding extension options or is there maybe something else kind of holding you back from pushing maturities out even further? Well that's what we're in the midst of now and most of the debt that we put in place in 2008 was three extendable to four or five years.
We have that group of finances that we're working through right now.
I mentioned Queens is going to be financed here shortly.
The Oaks is one of those loans initiated in '08 that's going to close in the next couple of weeks.
You will gradually start seeing our maturities schedule lengthen over the course of the next 12 months pretty significantly.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
We will take the next question from Alexander Goldfarb from Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning out there and thank you.
Just Tom along those lines on Queen center and North Park those are two loans that are coming up.
I'm sort of curious on Queen center just given what seemed to be a bit under levered.
Should we think about something in the $5 $600 million range on a refi or possibly bigger? I think in the range of 6 is in the ball park Alex.
You're right it is very under leveraged today.
What about North Park again I would assume the same thing sort of applies there.
What should we think about? On that one I wouldn't put anything into your modeling other than the loan will get extended at current levels.
Okay.
Is there sort of an unencumbered minimum that you guys want to maintain? No we just think that having an unencumbered pool is something that we'd never enjoyed until the last two or three years and we created that pool through the liquidities events that we have had over the last two or three years.
It's just a very efficient way to fund future development and redevelopment and acquisition opportunities.
It doesn't cost you anything to have the pool unencumbered.
Having a line of credit has a standby feature that's attended to that.
We just think it's a great source of fire power for us.
It's self imposed.
The idea that we want to have an unencumbered goal.
Four years ago I'll bet we didn't have $200 million of unencumbered as.
Today we got $2 billion.
But Art I'm not talking like some sort of covenant but I'm just talking some sort of an internal management.
Like "hey we want to have a billion.
We want to have a billion and a half." Something like that.
No we don't any specific self imposed minimums.
We've decided to build up a encumbered pool a year or so ago because we knew it would be a great source of capital to fund our development pipeline and so we did it.
Okay.
And just final question.
Tom this is sort of going back to Christie question at the beginning in the income statement a lot of the lines seemed to move around.
Was there anything that happened from bringing on the unwind of Simon JV assets that changed any of the individual lines on the income statement.
Well they went from being unconsolidated joint ventures to being consolidated entities so they moved up to the same lines that you would see for other wholly owned assets.
So yeah they all changed.
No I know that but I was wondering if there was any reclassification or anything like that occurred? No.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And today's last question will come from Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to go back to some of your comments on retailer margins Art.
When you look at let's say sales for activity over the last year or so and you look at what [inaudible] there were margins do you think today both to charge more from an occupancy cost ratio from a percentage of sales that has generated by those retailer than you were able to do so a year or two years ago? Yes.
If you were to separate that from let's the $600 a foot or $700 a foot model versus the $300 or $400 a foot.
By how much would that margin end differ? Actually I don't think there's a great difference.
I was looking at those number yesterday and I was actually please to see that leasing spreads at our lower proxy models were as healthy as the higher productivity models in the last three to six months.
But if you look at let's say a market ramp over the last year instead of free leasing spread which is more over the last five to seven years how would you gauge the improvement at the $300 or $400 foot versus $600 to $700 a foot? Good.
I would gauge the improvement to be good.
You've got retailers are willing to consider some of the lower productivity models today because of the of supply when they couple their own internal demand needs and the lack of supply available to them after they run through the top 200 models in the United States.
They have no choice but to then look into lower productivity centers that are still very well anchored very well located and many times monopolistic in nature and so the level of appetite from retailers in those locations is good and certainly better than it was a year ago.
And I have to say Cedrik that the piece that your firm did on operating margins I thought was one of the more thoughtful pieces that I've seen recently because you are focusing on not just sales per foot but operating margins.
And so that applies to the $300 a foot centers as much as $700 a foot centers.
Remember that if the retailer is making money then he's making money in the $300 a foot center also.
And that is evidencing itself in terms of the demand that we are getting and the deals that we are making in those centers.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for positive feedback and thanks for the answer.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's question and answer session.
Id like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
All right well thank you so much for joining us and we look forward to seeing you at the upcoming industry events over the next month or so.
Thank you so much.
That does conclude today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Macerich Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a Question-and-Answer Session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded and would now like to turn conference over to Miss Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Miss Wood.
Hi.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on our Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainty and risks which are associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the Company’s press release and SEC filing.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures that defined by the SEC Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is included in the press release and a supplemental 8-K filing for the quarter which are posted in the Investor section of the Company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board and Tom O’Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Today we are going to be discussing the second quarter results our capital activity and our outlook for the rest of the year.
We continue to see strong improving fundamentals in our business.
Retail sales had another strong increase and same –center ROI was positive for the tenth quarter in a row.
The re-leasing  spread showed double digit increases again in addition occupancy was up 30 basis points compared to a year ago at a very healthy level of 92.7%.
During the quarter we signed leases for 266 000 square feet average starting run of 45.64 and a positive re-leasing spread on a trailing 12-month basis of 165.
The occupancy of 92.7% was up 60 basis points sequentially compared to the March 31<sup>st</sup> occupancy level a strong gain for the quarter.
Occupancy cost as a percentage sales came in at 12.7 for the trailing 12-months.
That’s down compared to 13.2 at June 30<sup>th</sup> of last year.
FFO adjusted which excludes the impact Valley View and Prescott was $0.74 a share.
The operating results for the quarter included same-center NOI excluding termination revenue and SFAS 141 was up 2.9%.
Management company expenses were up for the quarter at $23.7 million.
However that has to be looked at on a year-to-date basis due to timing differences.
Year-to-date management company expenses are $46.3 million compared $46.7 million for the same period of last year.
Valley View Center had been in receivership since mid-2010 it was sold in April and concurrent with that sale the debt and all accrued interest was forgiven.
We booked an extinguishment of debt mean of $104 million.
In May Prescott Gateway was conveyed to the lender in a deed in lieu transaction and a $16 million gain on extinguishment of debt was recognized.
Those gains on debt extinguishment on Valley View and Prescott are not included in AFFO.
Looking at our balance sheet our debt-to-market-Cap at quarter end was 40%.
Net-debt-to-EBITDA was 7.3 times and our interest coverage ratio in the quarter was 2.6 times.
It continues to be a great financing market but extremely low rates and a significant amount of capacity.
We are taking advantage of this market.
We began 2012 with an average debt maturity of 3.2 years.
As a result of the refinancing and debt reduction year-to-date as of June 30<sup>th</sup> we have extended the debt maturities schedule to almost four years.
By year-end we are expecting the average debt maturity schedule to closer to five years the average debt maturity.
In addition since the loans we’re putting in place are long-term fixed rate loans the excess proceeds are being used to pay down our line of credit.
And by year-end our floating rate debt will only be about 20% of our total debt.
And I would expect that to continue to go down in 2012 as we move forward with our 2013 debt maturities.
Some of the recent activity includes a $200 million loan on Chandler.
That was a seven year deal at a fixed rate of 3.77%.
That replaces the prior loan which had a coupon of $5.48%.
We also closed on a $220 million loan on the Oaks.
That had been a floating rate loan before the new loan is a fixed rate 10-year deal at 4.1% interest rate.
We are also getting fixed rate quotes on Chester Field and Rimrock two currently unencumbered assets.
The proceeds from those two deals were estimated to be between $160 million and $180 million and that will be used to pay down floating rate debt on our line of credit.
We are also currently in the market on Kierland Commons Westside Pavilion and Deptford Mall.
We expect those transactions to close in the third quarter.
In this morning’s earnings release we maintained our adjusted AFFO per share guidance in the range of 306 to 314 our assumptions are largely the same.
So for now we are not increasing our guidance range but we will readdress that next quarter.
Looking at the AFFO split for the remaining quarters the third quarter we estimate to be 24% to 25% of the total year and the fourth quarter would be 27% to 28%.
Looking at tenant sales small tenant sales per foot on a trailing 12-month basis were up 12% to $513.00 a foot for the 12 months ended June 30<sup>th</sup>.
At this point I’d like to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom.
As you can see our sales trends our leasing trends have been very strong which is reflective of our industry.
The financing markets continue to be extremely attractive for strong regional malls and we’ve been tapping into those with a lot of new activity going forward that will be reducing our floating rate debt as well as extending our maturities as Tom outlined.
On the disposition front as Tom has mentioned we had a lot of activity.
It doesn’t add up to a lot of dollars but it’s a lot of activity and it helps us to maintain and really prune and refine our focus particularly in our Arizona markets.
We have had assets in Arizona.
We had Hilton Village a small specialty center on Scottsdale Road.
The Borgata another small specialty center.
We had a power center Chandler Gateway another power center Chandler Festival Center another Chandler Village Center each of which we own 50% interest in.
We had a power center around San Tan Mall that we owned a 35% interest in that we’ve sold all during the first six months.
In addition to that we sold our 100% of a small specialty center in Carmel as well as one of the old Mervyn’s boxes that we owned in a regional mall that we do not own.
But when you add it all up we have eight operating assets that we sold.
They don’t add up to a lot of dollars but it does give us the opportunity from a timing view point to keep our focus particularly in our important Arizona markets on our major regional malls in those markets.
On the disposition front we do anticipate that we will exceed the total that we had put into our earlier year guidance of $300 million to $350 million.
Today we’ve had total sales our pro-rata share of about $180 million but the total sale of the assets were significantly more valuable than that because as I mentioned we had partial interest that we were selling.
And we would anticipate that over the balance of the year that we’ll exceed total dispositions of over $400 million with total equity raise being in the neighborhood of $240 million to $250 million.
We’ve currently raised net equity of around $126 million from the sales that we’ve had to date.
So we are on a path in our pruning process.
It’s always hard to predict exactly when dispositions are going to occur and that’s one of the reasons that any year where you’ve got choppy dispositions we didn’t feel comfortable amending our guidance at this point in time.
Turning to development activities.
We’ve really got two projects in the ground right now.
One is Chicago Fashion Fashion Outlet for Chicago.
That project is doing terrifically.
If you happen to land in Chicago and you’ll drive by the site there you’ll see the steel coming up out of the ground.
The project is extremely well-positioned.
We have leases 62% of the space are completely documented in signed and another 25% or so of the space is in lease comment in negotiation right now.
The space if virtually 100% committed.
We anticipate an opening of August of next year.
It’s on time and on budget in all respects at this point in time.
And again we think it’s going to be a great center.
As you may remember we have a construction loan on that project so the total equity that we’ll be putting into the construction there is a little over $60 million to $70 million give or take.
And we anticipate very large good double digit returns on the total project and of course on our equity component it will be significant.
We already funded a fair amount of that equity as it was used to prime the construction loan.
This week some of you may have seen announcements on Tysons Corner which is the other development that we are in the ground on.
And I thought it would actually be a good time to kind of reflect on where we are on Tysons how we got to where we are and where we’re headed.
You may remember we bought Tysons Corner in 2005 when we bought the private company developer [Wilmer Wright].
Immediately upon it’s acquisition we were embarked upon an expansion of the center which included the addition of an AMC Theater and entertainment wing and a restaurant wing.
The redemise of an old JC Penny’s store and it really put the center to it’s next level of success.
That AMC Theater is their best theater in the U.S.
outside of New York City and it’s in the top five movie theaters in the U.S.
It drives a very successful entertainment wing and as a consequence of that expansion we added a couple hundred dollars a square foot in sales to Tysons Corner which already was a real powerhouse.
When we bought Wilmer Wright in 2005 we became aware of the fact that this particular site was grandfathered in terms of the master plan and that there was an opportunity to obtain entitlement to expand the center that no other piece of land in Northern Virginia Fairfax County was able to tap into.
So we continued the efforts of our predecessor to perfect those entitlements.
And after three years of effort in early 2008 we did perfect those entitlements and attained the right to add roughly 3 million square feet of space to the center.
At that point in time the exercise was simple one of entitlement.
Of course when the financial crisis in fall of 2008 hit the idea of working on those entitlements obviously became moot for a period of time.
As time progressed then the Metro Rail got legs in the Washington D.C.
area and it got funded.
And currently that rail which connects Tysons Corner to the Capital and will connect Tysons Corner to Dulles is under construction.
If you drive by Chain Bridge Road or anywhere near that area you’re going to see above ground monorail-type of construction.
And that rail is going to change the entire traffic patterns in Northern Virginia and in Tysons Corner.
The only complaint people have about Tysons Corner today is it’s too successful and it’s too difficult to get to because there are too many people coming there.
This is going to open up the flow of traffic.
That combined with a tremendous amount of offsite improvements that we helped to sponsor and even fund in terms of hot lanes the new Chain Bridge Road bridge and improvements to Chain Bridge Road and literally seven different road systems around us are going to dramatically increase the accessibility of Tysons Corner.
The Rail opens later next year.
It will be fully operational we think and open to the public in late 2013.
Current estimates are that about 8 000 per day will use the rail system.
Now the rail station itself is across the street from Tysons Corner.
In looking at our expansion opportunity part of the things that we wanted to tap into and one of the reasons that Fairfax County commissioners gave us the right to expand is that we were willing to cooperate with them and provide access to Tysons Corner from that rail station.
And together with them we planned a bridge that would cross the road and bring passengers from the rail station over to our side of the street.
We provided some land area that would provide an opportunity for buses to drop off and pick up people on our side of the street.
And so we really opened up our front door to the rail station.
The work that we are currently underway with we decided to move forward with the construction of an elevated plaza and bridge system that will connect us to the rail station.
On top of that plaza we have plans to erect an office building a residential tower and a hotel tower.
When we elected to move forward on this a great deal of the motivation was to enhance the retail experience.
We think that by building this new urban environment at our front door of our center and connecting to the rail station and having this elevated outdoor plaza is going to create an environment that is unlike anything else in the district frankly unlike anything else in the United States.
And we are fully confident that the addition of this mixed use development and the creation of an additional 5 000 to 6 000 people per day in terms of foot traffic that will either work live or use the hotel facilities should easily translate to dramatic increases in sales per foot.
It creates a new second level entry to the shopping center and we are extremely confident that this is going to help us take our retail asset and take it to the next level.
When we decided to pursue building the expansion on our own it was a joint-venture decision between ourselves and the Alaska Permanent Fund.
Alaska in looking at the numbers felt that the development returns were so attractive that we should build it ourselves.
And we concurred with them and also decided to do it in this manner because by being the single-source developer we can maximize the synergy of the traffic patterns between the residential the office the hotel and the shopping mall.
Together as partners we and Alaska can always decide after we have developed out the project if we want to monetize one of those elements of the project.
But we felt it was important to build it on our own.
We also felt though that it was important to bring in “Best of Class” developers in each of those categories to deliver a “Best in Class” building and bring the strength of leasing that would come with their unique development expertise.
And so you may have seen earlier this week that we announced that we have signed development agreements with the Hines Organization to oversee the office development and they have been extremely involved in every aspect of that value engineering the leasing as well as even the integration of the office to the overall plaza area and the master planning.
We brought in the Kettler Organization which was prior developer in the Tysons District and in Washington D.C.
they are one of the most respected residential developers in the D.C.
market.
They have over 20 000 units.
And we brought in Woodbine to be the advisor on the hotel component.
Currently we are building the infrastructure to support the plaza and to support a podium on which the office building residential tower and the hotel will be built.
The burn rate that we have is about $5 million a month between now and April of next year.
And the way that we’ve designed the project is that come March or April of next year we’ll make a determination of each of the three components whether to continue vertical or to defer for a period of time the further construction.
We fully anticipate that all three elements will continue to be built but if we don’t like in particular where we stand on the leasing of the office building come April of next year we have the ability to Cap-off the pad at that point in time and to not go vertical on the building until it is pre-leased to a level of satisfaction to ourselves and our partner.
So we feel that we’ve approached this perfection of the entitlement in a very sensible way.
We feel that owning and creating the expansion on our own is the most sensible to enhance the retail experience and to create the most value for each of the components.
We brought in “Best of Class” developers I think on each of the three components to ensure it’s success and we’re very bullish about the final impact that this is going to have on Tysons Corner.
The entitlements that we have on this project are invaluable compared with what it costs today to get entitlements in this district.
And again a lot of this was driven by the fact that we did have the grandfathered right here but it is really driven by the opportunity that was created by the rail coming to the area and by our appetite to tap into that rail.
So as we look at the funding of this at this point in time Alaska and Macerich are funding this all cash.
You may have observed from looking at our financial filing that we have relatively modest mortgage on Tysons Corner just over $300 million and it comes due in 2 years.
We could easily as a partnership when we complete this project with a very modest expansion of that loan given the current income that comes out of Tysons Corner and the income that will be coming from mixed use development finance out of the entire development costs that we will have expended.
But we feel we’ve approached this in a very conservative way.
We’ve looked at the idea of adding mixed use elements at different centers across the U.S.
At this point in time this is the only center that we feel that we will be participating in that in an ownership capacity.
And we picked basically a center that has a catalyst that is driven by the Metro Rail.
When you’re booking at one of the top five centers in the United States in one of the best markets in the United States and the best location within that market and we’re very bullish on what we’re doing there but we’re very cautious of the overall risks.
But we’re convinced [NAV] creation we and our partner the Alaska Permanent Fund is going to be dramatic but most importantly it’s really going to further solidify Tysons Corner and set it up for generations to come.
And with that I’d like to open it up for questions.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hey Craig.
The retail portion of Tysons that is going to benefit it sounds like it is not from sort of expanding that space but from let’s say the raised traffic level the enhancement of that entire shopping area is that correct?  And what’s really happening here is that right now Tysons has a front door which is kind of the Port of Cache underneath the AMC expansion wing.
And that’s a front door to the first level of the center but it doesn’t really have a front door to the second level of the center.
This is going to create a front door to the second level of the center and it’s going to create a new entrance to the center.
More importantly it’s going to create an outdoor center court that’s not going to be unlike the activity that we experience on the open air Santa Monica place in the dining deck up there.
It’s going to be a public space.
It’s 55 000 square feet plaza area and on that plaza area we have opportunity to activate it with retail uses.
They could be festival uses they could be event-driven uses.
And I think that basically what we’re doing is we’re creating a public space that is unique to the entire district.
It’s unique frankly I think to any regional center that we know of in the United State.
And we are essentially creating an outdoor center court to complement our indoor center court improving the penetration to the center creating just another racetrack to the center in an area where the center is very successful but the anchors are not really heavily loaded either.
When we first decided to perfect the entitlement our partner said something to us Alaska.
They said “Let’s just not forget that what this is all about is protecting the golden goose that lays the eggs here.
And that’s the retail.” Now we haven’t lost sight of that and we think that’s going to be the big win out of the entire project as we go forward with this.
And with rents that are rolling over between now and when you start to do this project will you be able to get paid for it because they’ll be able to see that or does it make sense to sort of structure leases so that they roll over more after the event and you’ve made the improvements? We don’t have any extra-ordinary rollovers coming in that center other than there are a fair number that are coming up in 2015 and ’16 as consequence of our 2005 expansion.
So the timing should be perfect given that the new penetration is going to be in the proximity of the area where we did our 2005 expansion.
But other than that the lease rollover that we have in the center is fairly normal and just day-to-day.
We get very solid rents there and we’re very bullish on what we think the impact is going to be to the sales productivity.
Adding the hotel there when you think about it at that particular center we think it is going to help generate a lot of sales productivity and be complementary.
When we added AMC we essentially added around 2 500 to 3 000 visitors per day that came to the theater that weren’t there before and it resulted in sales increases at the center that were quite dramatic.
By adding an office tower the workers there and the residents in the residential tower and the users of the hotel we’re adding in excess of 5 000 to 6 000 a day between permanent and the tourists visitors that we don’t have today.
And add to that the 8 000 commuters and I think that’s a conservative estimate they’re going to be using that rail station across the street and we’re going to be the only facility that is tied directly into that rail station.
We just think that the ease of getting to Tysons is going to be enhanced and the number of bodies that we can run through there even as great as it is today is going to be added to.
That always just translates into better daytime business and greater sales productive.
And we think that the big win here is going to be in the growth of the value of the retail asset.
We think we’re making good money on each of the other components but the “eye on the ball” is on the retail asset and keeping ourselves plugged into the Metro Rail and really maximizing the benefit of that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Craig.
Hey Quentin.
Hey there.
Just one quick one on Tysons just given where office and hotel demand is currently it’s quite weak in that market.
What gives you the confidence to be proceeding with all three parts of the development at this stage? Well again as I pointed out we’re proceeding with the infrastructure to support all three elements.
We’re proceeding with the plaza which becomes a podium upon which all three elements will be built.
And as we get into it really our go/no-go decision on various elements really gets more serious in March or April of next year.
Our belief is that we will be pre-leased and we’ll have demand opportunities on each of the three components that will cause us to continue moving forward.
But if we find that there are headwinds and that we are not along well enough in term of the demand that we have for each of the components we have the ability to cap-off the construction on that component and to open up the balance of the plaza with the other say couple of components.
You know if you take a look at the market in Northern Virginia Fairfax County it’s got 26 million or 27 million square feet of office space.
And you’ve got say 7 million square feet of class “A” office space.
But when you break it down there is nothing even in class “A” office space that compares to the 500 000 foot of office space that we’re going to be adding here.
There is not one building in all of the 26 million square feet of inventory or the 7 million feet of class “A” office space that remotely has the amenity package direct access to the Metro Rail the entire district and that goes all the way out to the Reston.
All we have to achieve is the type of rent office-wise that they get at Reston and we've got a big home run.
The product that we're delivering is so much better in terms of the amenity package.
If you have an office at Tysons Corner you're going to have a hotel that you're visitors can use you're going to have a residential tower that some of your employees can live in you've got the ability to your workers to be able to eat shop to play right next door and then you have this outdoor plaza.
It's the best product by far.
We've met with a number of new tenants that are interested in coming.
If you take a look at all of the office buildings within a mile or two within Tysons Corner look at the name at the top of that building chances are they're talking to us.
We're not going to when we're ready to announce our lead tenant we will.
If we don't find that we have a lead tenant at the rent that we want the thing that gave us confidence to move forward on the infrastructure was the ability to pause on the office tower if we weren't where we wanted to be.
We will pause we in Alaska have made that decision.
The same holds true on all three components.
Okay.
So what kind of rent premium given the higher quality of bill boarding what kind of rent premium do you think you need to be at relative to what's in the market at the moment? Like I said if we get the rents that are currently being obtained at Trophy Office Space and Reston Town Center our building is a home run.
It's just north of $50.00 a foot.
Okay.
Thanks.
There are plenty of precedents for those types of rent.
Now we're well aware of the headwinds in the market but there is nothing else in the market like this period case closed.
You're talking about we'll own less than 2% of the inventory in the markets; and it's going to be best of class in every respect.
We're very confident based upon the meetings that we've had.
There are half a dozen lead tenants that we've already given presentations to and we've got plenty of time.
We're going to be stingy if we don't get the rent that we want we can pause and continue on.
We have the infrastructure ready and we'll be in a short time-frame to build out when we get the right lease tenants at the right rent.
Alaska is very conservative our partner we're being very cautious here.
Our advisers I think are best in class and we're all very bullish in the way we're doing it but we've built in a hedge factor.
Like I said the burn rate between now and those types of decisions is around $5 million a month which is tolerable and our share is half of that.
That's great.
Thanks.
Then just [inaudible] you commented on some additional development projects or acquisition projects in terms of the outlet sector.
I think New York was a market you mentioned and L.A.
was a market that you've mentioned.
Could you just give us a little bit more detail in terms of what you're looking at and what you're thinking about in those markets? Just that they're long-term our business plan remains the same.
That we would like to have outlet centers in the same types of markets that we have our best regional malls.
So we have said historically that the markets that we love to do business in are L.A.
San Francisco the other major cities on the west coast New York Washington D.C.
corridor Chicago and then Arizona.
Those are our six or seven major markets that we have our best assets in and that's where we're concentrating.
Those will be the markets that we likely pursue outlet opportunities so we're under construction and opening the one in Chicago.
We own one in [upstate] New York [below] Niagara Falls obviously.
Now the expansion of Niagara Falls is coming along well in terms of the pre-leasing; but we won't reach a decision point on that in terms of breaking ground for another nine months or so.
The other markets they're really on our radar screen and we would love to be involved in those markets we think there's opportunity but there's nothing to report on.
Great.
Thank you.
Hey Paul.
Hi good morning.
Just going back to Tyson for a second.
So the economics of the development agreement you and Alaska are continuing in terms of the ultimate investment is to keep the pro-rata investment in terms of the development partners.
What's their position? Yeah.
We're 50/50 owners in the entire project.
Together we thought about selling off air rights and development rights to other folks and there were a long list of folks that would have loved to have bought the development rights.
We decided together that there was frankly too much money to be made.
Also the execution of the mixed use expansion needed to be integrated and cross managed and cross marketed and cross developed.
This plaza that connects us to the metro rail and bridges over Chain Bridge Road to the rail and then creates this urban space.
This 55 000 foot central outdoor space up in the air above the current parking lot and feeds into the second level of the shopping center is such a key to the opening up of the second level of the center; and enhancing the traffic of the second level of the center that common ownership was really dictated.
We decided to do it on our own and that's why we did it.
Now together as partners we could easily monetize one or more of those elements down the road.
Like I said we have such modest debt on Tysons Corner today that even at very modest debt yields we can finance out of whatever we spend on the project in total when that loan comes due in two years.
Could you see the way it was structured with the podium could you see moving forward on one or two of the buildings instead of all three based on marketing conditions.
[inaudible] That's exactly right.
We could decide not to proceed vertically on any of the three elements and just finish off the plaza and have basically <i>Subterranean</i> parking in place that will support the office building and the residential tower.
Now what's the cost of doing that? The cost of that infrastructure is probably $50 million give or take.
Look given the time value of money if you deferred the project six months to a year or even two years that's not a deal killer.
The burn rate of having that behind you because it would put you in a position where you would only go vertical when you felt the market was hot.
Look this is a once in a generation opportunity to create value.
So what we're really doing here is making sure that we have the connection to the rail.
We're doing the infrastructure there was huge utility that had to be done huge ring road work that had to be done huge off-site work that had to be done that's all been spent to date.
Then again the key decision point on whether you go vertical on each of the three elements is within that March to April May time-frame of next year.
There's no magic to that if we decide to pause on one of the elements no big deal.
We're going to build from strength.
The one that would likely be most in question probably would be the office one.
Because you’re signing 10 year deals on the offer.
On the residential you're marking the market every 30 days so timing is not critical on that.
Thanks.
Then my other question is just on the dispositions.
You mentioned $400 million with $240 to $250 million of equity.
Is that what's in your FFO guidance and is that still all non-malls? The total of the guidance we gave was $300 to $350 recognizing that we'll try to sell some assets that may not sell and there may be others that we initially weren't sure would be in the mix that are.
There could be a mall or two in there.
We said that we're not just selling urban villages but other assets so there could be a mall or two in there.
Did you mention $400 million or did I mis-hear that? You hit the right number.
Our original guidance numbers for the entire year was [inaudible] was going to be between $300 and $350 and I did comments that I felt in fact our [inaudible] share will be closer to $400 to $450 so it will be higher.
What Tom is adding is that there could be an interest in a mall that was a non-core interest involved in that sizing.
We'll see.
Okay.
Then last you had the Cap rates on the deals you did close? Yeah.
The deals that have closed to-date are just under 7% probably 61/2% to 7% of blended cap rates.
There are small deals.
There are partnership interest in a lot of them.
Overall from an energy viewpoint it gives us a lot of capacity to refine our focus.
It was a bigger disposition than the dollars would seem to have left.
Again most all of these assets that we disposed of were in the English market place.
So this now leaves us with really just the regional mall investments that we have there with the exception of one or two urban villages.
Great.
Thanks.
Hey guys.
Just to follow up on that last question with regard to dispositions I just want to make sure I'm clear.
That's $400 million to $450 million pro-rata by year end? That's our best estimate yes.
At this point you've completed $180 million do you have anything else contracted at this point? Excuse me? Do you have anything under contract at this point? You know we have a policy that we don't comment on the specifics of acquisitions or dispositions and we find that's a good policy.
That's our best guidance.
That's all I can do is give the guidance today.
Okay.
All right.
Tom you mentioned the assumptions that are in guidance are largely the same.
Can you confirm I think your prior same-center NOI growth guidance was 2 1/2 to 3 1/2.
Then your occupancy guidance was up 50 basis points is that still about right? That's right.
The same-center NOI growth that's excluding lease termination and SS141 that was in our guidance was 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 and through six months we're at 3.1%.
So we're right there right in the middle of the range and that remains the same.
Okay.
Just lastly regarding the income tax benefit in the quarter.
Just wondering what that was related to and what you do you have in guidance for the full year for sort of net expected tax benefit or expense? Yeah you get little that's through the taxable REIT subsidiary Christy and when you dispose of an asset sometimes you get a small tax sometimes you get a small benefit.
If you look at it year-to-date it's only about $1 million.
That's not particularly big and we factor in I think based on last year maybe $2 million of gains for the year $2 million of tax benefit for the year.
It's relatively small and in some cases in some stores it's going to be an expense and some stores it's going to be a benefit.
Either direction it's not going to be too significant.
So would you stay on par with last year about $2 million benefits? Yes.
Okay.
Thanks.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Tysons in Chicago seem like the ones you're focused on at the moment.
I'm curious more broadly you had given us a bigger number for sort of development/redevelopment spend over the next five years.
Where do you see that at this point I guess annually or over a longer period of time what are you expecting? Look over the five year period I think the numbers that we've shared with you are roughly accurate.
With the exception of the possibility of us building an outlet center in the Scottsdale market place in the next five years is probably out of those numbers now.
The possibility of us opening and building a full price regional mall in the Goodyear market place is probably out of those numbers at this point in time.
So right now I think it's best that we focus on exactly what we're in the ground on.
We're in the ground with Tyson we're in the ground with Chicago it's likely that we will break ground on Niagara Falls next year.
In the long-term horizon we're still working on that entitlement at Broadway Plaza in Walnut Creek.
That's going along okay but it's a difficult negotiation with the city with lots of master planning implications.
I think the opportunities are out there still along the lines of the sizing that we have talked about with the exception that when you take out the new possible mall in Phoenix and Goodyear the possibility of an outlet center in Scottsdale that's a significant amount of money.
That's $300 million or $400 million in that comes out but it was pretty much back-ended anyway.
So at this point in time I think the real focus is on Chicago Tysons and the opportunity of Niagara Falls.
We'll see how the others go.
We're working on entitlements all the time.
It's always hard when you're trying to project out five years to know what's going to happen.
Just because you see it in your sites when you talk about it if market conditions change and all the sudden you've got overbuilding that is being created in a market like Phoenix.
You got to back away for awhile but right now we're really just focused on the three we talked about here.
With the next big one coming after that being Walnut Creek.
We've still got a lot of work to do on Walnut Creek.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you that's very helpful.
You know looking for a moment at the mall business itself how do you guys size up traffic trends maybe more recently even since the end of the quarter? Given that the economy has slowed a bit here.
Are you talking about foot traffic or sales? Yeah foot traffic at the malls.
It's about the same.
We don't have traffic counters at all of our malls.
Sales are up and some people on a global basis people prognosticate that sometimes purchases per visit or [inaudible] would infer that traffic was up.
Look the malls that we own they feel busy they look busy they are busy they're productive.
Foot traffic is very important but it's hard to have a direct correlation between foot traffic and sales.
I think on a macro basis people are continually more stretched for time and they probably tend to go to places less often and consolidate their visits when they do go but it varies.
Every property is different.
Take the traffic at the Santa Monaco place and you can just observe that it's virtually grid-locked in terms of the number of bodies that we move through there.
The big number the eating the paste in the pudding there and sales are great sales are good.
That's the most important thing.
Okay good.
Thank you.
Tom last thing.
Is North Park done? Is the refinancing of that done? Rich that's being handled by our partner we're passive investor in there and they're operating under a short-term extension now and working with one of the existing lenders on that.
Okay.
So probably next quarter I'm guessing that's done.
Right? That's my assumption.
Okay.
All right good.
Thanks.
Yeah hi.
I heard the comments about not knowing all the specific time-frames but if you think about Broadway with everything really lined up and it goes according to plan under the best scenario.
What could a rough time-frame look like for that project? I think we talked about the grand-reopening being in 2016.
Okay okay.
There are lots of things that when we started a process we had a certain comfort factor that the city was going to allow one level of development.
Then as they've gotten into it they have decided that some of the public spaces that they thought they were willing to walk away from they don't want to walk away from so that's kind of caused us to rejigger the development.
When we first started talking about the development that's another one that in a previous call that I had said that we're thinking about the possibility of allowing residential to be built on top of the retail.
As we've gotten into the process of the city and we looked at it we just decided that we're not going to incorporate residential into that.
It's going to be a pure retail expansion.
So things are moving around.
That's a project that we're getting paid on our land through the rents that we give today while we work on the opportunity to build something that's a lot better.
So it's kind of the best of both worlds.
Sometimes when you look on a piece of land you're not getting paid while you're thinking about what to build.
Here you have a situation where as we think about what to build we've got increasing sales we've got increasing NOI.
Once we get our entitlements in order for this project to pencil out we'll have to convince ourselves that the incremental spend is worth decommissioning and then rebuilding.
Preliminary numbers say that we have a huge NAV creation possibility here and that we have the opportunity to create one of the top centers in the United States.
It's tremendously well anchored today with a fabulous Nordstrom's a fabulous new Neiman-Marcus.
We've got a big Macy's that just wants to get bigger and wants to become one of the standout Macy's in the marketplace.
We've got specialty retailers that are lined up around the block that want to be there.
So that's one that we're very patient but we're actually getting paid for our patience.
Then when we decide to pull the trigger then the whole process is roughly 24 to 30 months.
We think it could happen in the Fall of 2016.
Frankly it doesn't matter if it's '15 or '16 because we're getting paid to think about it.
Okay.
Separately and a little bit more of a technical question.
When we're thinking about Chicago leasing how do the leases for that project with the tenants compare to say a normal traditional regional mall lease? If we're thinking about lease terms the escalators are they comparable? Yes.
Okay.
Then last question sticking with leasing.
Any sort of update you can give us on the Santa Monica you're starting to turn some of the leases there.
What's happening in terms of the renewal rates versus prior rates? I think I've mentioned on the previous call every time we looked at quoting a renewal deal or replacement deal to new tenants that are coming in.
Like three people is replacing Sketchers and we've got a couple of other new tenants that have come in.
Lorna Jane has come in replaced [inaudible].
Lorna Jane is an athletic specialty retailer out of Australia and it's kind of a first to market location for them.
Roughly on average the new rents compared to the old rents on the tenants that are going away they're always above and in some cases they're double.
As I've indicated before I think there's a big opportunity to increase the rent levels as we recycle.
We were leasing in the worst of times so it's not unusual that that's the case.
It's also not unusual that that's the case when you've got a really successful center because the guys that want to come in that are not there now they already have the advantage of knowing what works.
When they can see the volumes of peers that they have and see the success then they can pencil out better sales projections for themselves and afford to pay you better rent.
When you're building a project from scratch and you're used to having mediocre malls it's still speculative.
We thought it was going to be a big winner we believed it was going to be a winner turned out to be a big winner but it's still speculative.
Until you open it you don't know.
The trend is good solid.
NOI growth there is good we're very bullish on the future and only good things are going to happen there.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Yeah good afternoon.
Tom or Art I was wondering if you would be able to on a go forward basis I know you used to have a table in the back that kind of provided the development projects and the costs.
As the pipeline begins to ramp up I'm just wondering if you would be able to provide a little more detail on that CIP number which I think stands at about $350 million today.
Would you be able to kind of just go through and talking about some of the projects that you've mentioned whether it's Tysons Niagara Chicago maybe Broadway and some others.
Could you help us just bucket how much you've spent to date on each of those assets? Steve we include a lot of assets in there but the bulk of the CIP is Tysons Chicago and then Estrella Falls.
It's not just ground up construction it also includes a land relating to those projects.
So that's the bulk of what's in there.
There are other land holdings that are throughout the portfolio in there there are other smaller projects that are in there.
That schedule you're referring to is kind of a throwback to the era of '07 and '08 when we were scaling back on capital spending.
I'm sure we can come up with something to give a little more detail to CIP as we go forward.
Would you have [inaudible] for those three main projects Tysons Chicago Estrella [inaudible].
Not at my fingertips Steve.
I'll have to get back to you on that.
I think in my comments Steve I did indicate that over the course of the next year our expected burn rate on Tysons is $5 million a month and we have a half interest in that.
If you add our total expected projections they won including sub costs interest carry and everything else on Tysons.
From an equity viewpoint and add up our total equity that we're going to put into Chicago those two primarily.
From beginning to end the total investment probably is around $350 million.
Our equity components are actually [cheaper] though.
Of that probably we've got our pro-rata share to date is under $100 million and the burn rate is what it is.
The key variable being which element that we decide to go vertical with [inaudible] into Spring of next year.
Okay.
Could you maybe just elaborate a little more on Niagara? It sounded like you said you were nine months away from making a decision there.
I guess why is that taking so long or what are the necessary approvals you need to make that decision? The land that we're expanding on is currently a trailer park and we're de-leasing it.
So it's taking a little time.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good afternoon guys.
A couple of questions.
Art has your partner given you a sense of how the rents that you're targeting at the office tower at Tysons compares to the rents that perspective anchor tenants are paying today? I guess I'm wondering if there's a sense that maybe some of these tenants are maybe paying above market rent.
From their perspective any kind of incremental change might not be all that much of a stretch.
Jeff I don't know if you've got static on your end of the phone but for some reason we do on our end.
Hopefully you can hear me.
The market rents that we are seeking to achieve are roughly in line with the rents that are currently being achieved that the other letter considered to be trophy office buildings in the market place.
We think that we've got the best product in the market place so we're confident that we can get the rents that we need to achieve.
Those rents are north of $50.00 a foot.
Hopefully you can hear me okay.
Then you mentioned the burn rate I heard your share was $2 1/2 million a month.
I guess how long are you guys willing to carry or are you preparing to carry that cost before it becomes unpalatable? Oh no no.
It's not going to be unpalatable.
The only question would be whether or not we continue full bore in the Spring of next year or we pause on one of the elements.
We're very bullish about all three elements.
I was really just outlining basically how much money we will have invested before we have to make the decision to go vertical or not.
Okay.
Understood.
Last question is just concerning your cash leasing spread.
From where you guys sit today on the mall side do you expect to maintain a similar pace of growth as we role into 2013? I know it can move around quarter to quarter but just trying to think what you think you'll average going forward.
Well if you look at what we've done in the past Jeff we've been fairly consistent between 10% and 20%.
The numbers we tend not to give a quarterly number because you can get quite a bit of fluctuation; so the numbers we give on leasing are on the trailing 12 months.
I would say as we see what rolls forward ahead of us it's reasonable to expect to be between 10% to 20%.
Okay.
That's fine.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for joining us.
We look forward to seeing you soon and reporting to you on our progress.
Thanks again for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to The Macerich Company third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn conference over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on our third quarter earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risks associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company's press release and SEC filing.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures that defined by the SEC Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is included in the press release and a supplemental 8-K filing for the quarter which are posted in the Investor Section of the company's website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board; Ed Coppola President; Tom O'Hern Senior Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer; and Robert Perlmutter Executive VP Leasing.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Welcome everyone.
First of I'd like to say our thoughts and prayers are going out to those of you that have been affected by Hurricane Sandy.
From our end we're mobilizing all our malls in the region with the Red Cross to help with the recovery where we can.
Fortunately we have sustained no material damage at our malls.
Today we'll be discussing the third quarter results capital activity and our outlook for the balance of the year.
It was another strong quarter for us in terms of the fundamentals in our business.
Retail sales had a strong increase and we saw very significant increases in occupancy up to 93% which is a 190 basis point increase from a year ago.
The leasing volumes were good.
We signed 247 000 square feet of mall shop leases in the quarter.
And we the average re-leasing spread was a positive 18.5%.
If you look at occupancy sequentially compared to June 30 we're also up we're at 92.7% at the end of June and then we're at 93.0% at the end of September.
Occupancy cost as a percent of sales for the trailing 12 months was at 12.6% that compared to 13% a year ago.
Looking now at results of operations for the quarter adjusted FFO was $0.78 a share up from $0.75 a year ago.
Same-center net operating income excluding termination revenue SFAS 141 was up 2.6%.
Negatively impacting the quarter were lease termination revenues which decreased by $3.2 million compared to the third quarter of last year.
Also negatively impacting the quarter on a comparative basis was the reduction in SFAS 141 revenue which was $1.9 million decrease from the third quarter of last year.
Management company expenses were up for the quarter at $20.7 million compared to $20 million but they're flat year-to-date at $66.9 million compared to $67 million for the same period in 2011.
Other income has been up this year compared to last.
In each of the last three quarters we've been averaging about $11 million a quarter in this category which is mostly our business initiatives and includes garage and parking income advertising income sponsorship income interest income gift card income and a variety of other miscellaneous items.
Looking at our balance sheet our total debt-to-market cap for the quarter at quarter-end was 38.3%.
Our interest coverage ratio was very healthy 2.85 times.
We continue to be in a situation to be able to take advantage of the great financing markets.
There is a significant amount of capacity and obviously the rates are fantastic.
As a result of this market we began the year with an average debt maturity of 3.2 years as a result of the refinancing and the debt reduction as of September 30.
We've extended the average maturity to 4.2 years and by yearend we expect the average debt maturity to be over six years.
In addition most of the loans we've been putting in place for long-term fixed rate loans and the excess proceeds are being used to pay down our line of credit and other floating rate debt.
Our floating rate debt at September 30 was 23.6% of our total debt and that's down from 28.2% at the beginning of the year.
I would expect that trend to continue as we move forward with the financings planned for the fourth quarter.
We have $1.5 billion line of credit and as of September 30 only $255 million was outstanding on that line.
Looking at the recent capital activity in August and September we sold 2.9 million shares of common stock under our ATM program.
The average share price for those sales was $60.06 and the net proceeds were a little over $176 million.
As we mentioned in the press release this morning we have arranged for a $600 million financing in Queens Center.
This is a 12-year fixed rate loan.
The interest rate has been locked at 3.487%.
This loan is interest only no amortization.
The loan proceeds will go to pay off the existing $317 million loan that bears interest at 7.3%.
The closing is expected in December and our pro rata share of excess proceeds will be approximately $135 million.
We've also committed to $205 million loan on Deptford Mall.
This is a 10-year fixed rate financing and the expected interest rate will be approximately 3.75%.
In September we also financed Westside Pavilion again a 10-year fixed rate loan with an interest rate of 4.49% and that was a $155 million financing.
And in September we also put a $110 million loan on Chesterfield Towne Center.
That asset had been previously unencumbered so that was $110 million of additional liquidity that came in during the quarter.
To date we've close $1.1 billion in financings at our pro rata share and another $500 million is expected to close before yearend.
On the recently announced $1.25 billion acquisition of Kings Plaza and Green Acres we are anticipating putting a $500 million loan on Kings Plaza and $275 million to $300 million worth of loan on Green Acres both of which will be long-term fixed rate financings.
We recently on October 25 announced an increase in our quarterly dividend.
The dividend was increased to $0.58 per share for quarter that's a 5.5% increase over the prior dividend.
In this morning's earnings release we gave additional confirmation of the FFO guidance range of $306 million to $314 million that range is unchanged.
Looking now at tenant sales.
Small tenant sales per square foot came in at $511 for the portfolio at September 30.
That was up 9.4% from the 12 months ended September 30 2011.
If you look sequentially at June and if you exclude North Park Center from the June numbers and compare those to September we had a 2.6% increase in just that one quarter in sales per foot.
At this point I'd like to turn it over to Art.
Thanks Tom I just want to echo our thoughts and prayers on folks on the east coast.
I know that it was devastating.
All of our properties are open for business today with the exception of Freehold which has a power issue.
We anticipate that will be open shortly.
And again we are mobilized that each of the properties to provide help with the recovery efforts and we'll do everything that we can to assist in that regard.
If you take a look at what we are reporting to you this quarter you will see that it is a precise reflection of what we laid out for you in my shareholders letter to you 18 months ago in March of 2011.
We've extended our maturities.
We've lowered our debt levels.
We've sold non-core assets and we've invested into our core markets.
We've increased our productivity of the portfolio and increased the focus of the portfolio what I feel is great discipline.
On the operation side you can see that sales continue to be very strong that occupancies are very good leasing spreads continue to be very strong.
We're very optimistic on the leasing side.
We have had continued good progress on a number of fronts on the leasing side.
And on the operating side of the business even though I'm sure that a lot of the discussion today will be balance sheet dispositions and acquisitions I want to reemphasize that the operating side of our business is extremely strong.
I've seen some people right recently about the possibility as this month sales the rate of increase declined a little bit or not that's really irrelevant.
You need to understand that our retailers are making commitments for 10 years.
Maybe we care less what happened this month or last month.
Bottom line is as we're focused on recently I think by Green Street which we've been talking about for two years operating margins are excellent.
And that's the key number.
They're making money.
They're making deals.
And you have the global retailers now are getting shy as well as the U.S.
retailers of their expansion plans around the globe in Europe and Asia.
And they're refocused here in the U.S.
And that reflects itself a lot of the activity that we have seen and that we're seeing.
So I can't tell you how bullish I am about the portfolio today about our business today.
And very happy about the addition of the new assets that we've added.
On the sales front I'd like to point out just a few statistics and trends.
Year-to-date sales in our top 10 centers are up roughly 9%.
Our next 25 centers were up roughly 8%.
Our top 40 centers overall are up 8%.
And then our next 20 centers year-to-date are up just over between 3% and 4%.
So that's exactly what you would anticipate.
The most productive centers continue to get better at an increasing rate and the more mediocre centers just have slower growth rates that reflect itself in leasing spreads at the bottom tier as well as at the upper tier.
The upper tier you get better leasing spreads the bottom tier you don't get the same leasing spreads.
But we're seeing good growth even in our bottom 20 assets or as some people would call them our B-assets.
And a lot of that growth is driven by occupancy and also just scarcity of opportunity for the retailer.
At quarter-end our top 40 centers in our portfolio generated about $571 per square foot and generated about 78% of NOI.
When you bring Kings Plaza and Green Acres into the portfolio and into the top 40 which is more of our land then that takes our top 40 centers will have sales of say closer to $580 a foot.
And the NOI generated from those top 40 centers will be somewhere in the low 80s 83% 84%.
So as we've outlined you in the past our goal is to have over 90% of our net NOI coming from what we consider to be core centers fortress centers.
And we're making great strides in that front increasing our ownership of FlatIron and buying Kings and Green Acres are certainly good steps along the way.
Next I want to talk about dispositions and then acquisitions and then developments and then we'll open it up for questions.
On the disposition side we gave you guidance last quarter that we anticipated that the full year dispositions would be roughly $450 million.
And that's what they ended up to be.
With the primary disposition in this quarter being the sale of our financial interest in North Park Mall in Dallas.
A little bit about North Park Mall in Dallas.
We brought into that center with the $75 million investment in 2004.
At the time that we went into it throughout that period time and today we are bound by confidentiality agreement with the family that owns it.
And so we do have some limits on what we can discuss.
But let me give you the details of what we can discuss in history.
We went into the property with the $75 million investment with a preferred return on that investment that protected us from development risk and also with an internal rate of preferred return that was to be paid to us if and when earned then also if and when our partner were to decide to buy us out.
The partner has the right limit in this year to consider buying us out and to do that they will require to pay us a fix price which was essentially our original investment plus an amount of cash equal to that amount to get us to 9.625% internal rate of return.
We had a hope certificate when we went into the deal that it would emerge into a total operating position.
It didn't work out that way.
We've never managed that center.
We've never leased the center.
And while the optics of having it in our numbers the $15 which affected our sales numbers by roughly $15 a square foot which is why our sales are $511 instead of $526 give or take at quarter-end.
The opportunity to de-lever by almost $300 million and take the money off the table was attractive to us.
We do have certain ongoing rights as the consequence of our original agreement and should the owner of that center decide they want to bring an equity partner in the future we do have certain rights to first refusal over them.
But again from our view point it was a good financial investment.
It was a something that was a very good hope certificate.
It did not worked out to be a full co-management and co-operating partnership.
We don't have any other partnership agreements that have that type of provision.
It was again a preferred equity possession which I think you've heard us say at different times in the past.
Looking to the acquisitions that we've done.
I want to layout for you exactly how we have in fact already financed the acquisition of Kings Plaza and Green Acres and the 75% interest in FlatIron's mall.
Kings Plaza and Green Acres have a total acquisition price of $1.25 billion.
Our acquisition of our 75% interest that we did not own in FlatIron mall was roughly $323 million.
So let's say that's $1.575 billion.
Here is how we are financing that or have financed that.
There was $127 million of our pro-rata share of debt that we assumed in the purchase of our partners interest at FlatIron.
There was roughly $800 million of new debt about $500 million on Kings that we are about to circle at a sub 4% interest rate.
And probably $300 million give or take maybe more on Green Acres.
So there is $800 million of property level debt that will have term of between seven and 10 years on the two different loans probably seven at Kings and 10 years at Green Acres that will finance that portion of it.
So property level debt is $925 million give or take.
That leaves you with the $650 million component to fund in the equity of these acquisitions.
Here is how we funded that.
We raised $170 million through the equity issuance under our ATM.
We raised $245 million as our pro-rata share of equity from the dispositions that we did this year.
We will be receiving roughly $140 million as our pro-rata share of excess proceeds from the Queens refinance.
And we raised roughly $110 million but let's say we used $95 million of it in the encumbering of an unencumbered asset Chesterfield Mall.
You add that to $170 million on the ATM the $245 million on the equity from the dispositions the Queens refinancing excess proceeds and the Chesterfield Mall encumbering the asset that totaled $650 million.
And that is exactly how we financed it.
Now what's the impact on our earnings? If you take a look at the equity at the centers that we sold which had $245 million of equity $466 million in total.
On a full year run rate that $245 million would have been approximately $0.10 per share diluted.
If we had taken that $245 million and basically just paid off our line of credit debt that has a pay rate of say 2% or so and we had roughly in FFO yield on the $245 million of equity that we raised of just north of eight that comes to about $0.10 a share dilutive.
Because the dispositions were done during the course of the year how much is the impact on 2012 probably let's say $0.05 a share or $0.06 a share something in that neighborhood.
Tom will be able to not on this call but in one-on-one meetings and even by phone give you much more precise guidance on that specific number.
Dispositions are always dilutive to earnings.
I don't see them as dilutive to NAV if you see that you got a full price but they are always dilutive to earnings in this environment.
It was roughly $0.10 a share.
When you add up exactly how we financed this transaction and the equity cost of our ATM equity the FFO that we lost on the equity of the dispositions and the interest rate on the debt that we're putting on to the properties that we bought as well as the debt that we used to finance the balance of the transaction from the Queens refinance and the Chesterfield financing.
We not only claw back the entire full year run rate of $0.10 per share dilution but we add $0.10 a share of accretion.
So from an earnings view point that's very attractive to be able to have fully financed on a long-term basis including equity and dispositions the transaction and also have an earnings benefit that on a full-year run rate going forward after deducting the full-year run rate of dilution on the equity dispositions is $0.10 a share accretive.
This is precisely what we told you we were going to do 18 months ago that we were going to recycle money out of non-core assets and into core assets.
You might ask me a question why do I consider North Park to be a non-core asset.
It was non-core because we didn't operate it.
We didn't lease it.
We didn't manage it.
Our partner was very proprietary about that.
We didn't get any of the platform synergies from it.
That's what made it non-core.
Again we had a debenture depicted on but that didn't work out.
So we're very pleased with how we in fact financed these transactions.
I'm very pleased with the opportunity to buy back our interest from our partner in FlatIron.
Now I know there is probably a cynic on this call that's going to say oh you brought in that partner and they put up $120 million or so to get into the deal and now you paid them $196 million.
Three years later well guess what I would do that all day long.
Remember when we brought in our partner into FlatIron and Queens and Chandler and Freehold with Heitman we did that in lieu of doing what everybody else in the universe was doing which was selling survival equity.
To raise that same $120 million that our partner put into FlatIron's three years ago we would have had to sold 10 million shares of stock back then to raise that same money.
The way that I see it we are looking at being basically today with $195 million that we used to buy them out at today's stock price we saved the issuance at roughly 7 million shares of stock and in today's stock price the way I see it we're around $400 million ahead on that one deal alone.
And the same math applies to Queens and the same math applies to Chandler and Freehold.
So I am very pleased to bring this back into a wholly-owned category.
We have great hopes for FlatIron.
We have a retenanting plan where we're looking to relocate JC Penney from a mall that is headed in the wrong direction to the South of us down in Westminster and bring Penney up to our mall and we are repositioning the outdoor village not at a lot of money it's around $10 million $15 million max total we do but we think that the center is definitely on an up tick and we're pleased about it.
Turning to Kings and to Green Acres in particular and what our thinking is there.
We're just thrilled with the opportunity to add Kings and Green Acres to our portfolio.
When I thought about and have talked about wanting to increase our presence in the New York markets and the Washington DC markets there were two centers that came to mind as being really the two centers that we would have loved to have added in the New York market.
And we were able to make this deal to buy Kings and Green Acres and we're just thrilled.
We have a tremendous track record in the boroughs in New York.
Besides owning Queens we also manage a center in Yonkers.
And it's a fabulous market.
We see the opportunity at Kings to do something along the lines of what we did at Queens.
When we bought Queens it was doing $600 a square foot and before we ever did any expansion of the center we went through a re-leasing process where we took the tenants that were underperforming.
And we replaced them with tenants that performed better than their mall average.
And over the course of the next five years or so we raised the sales at Queens Center from $600 a foot to $1 000 a foot just through a recycling of tenants and going from unproductive to productive.
We see the opportunity to do something along the same lines at Kings.
It is a fabulous market.
It has a lot of the density characteristics that we enjoyed at Queens.
It has a further opportunity.
Beyond the fact that whether it's an opportunity to do some remerchandising here you also have a functionally obsolete department store with Sears.
It's over 330 000 square feet.
And they've already indicated that they would like to downsize dramatically.
So the opportunities there is to have a conversation with them to recycle a significant amount of space there possibly as much as half of their space either into shop space or into the addition of another anchor or whether the anchor be a department store a theater and or shops.
We're going to be very patient about Kings.
The first step is going to be the remerchandising of unproductive tenants into productive tenants.
But the opportunity there is really quite significant and its nice because we can do it all within the four walls of the property because you have that 339 000 foot box of the Sears building that we have reason to believe and conversations with them that they want to reduce in size.
And then we're going to recycle that into more productive tenants.
So we are just really thrilled about that.
Occupancy costs at Kings are roughly 19% of sales.
The answer to that is the increased sales by bringing in more productive tenants.
Every year that we've own Queens Center whether it was doing $600 a foot or $1 000 a foot occupancy costs at Queens Center have been 20% of sales.
The key is to bring in more productive tenants.
And the other opportunity is to recycle some department store space to shops space that pays you real rent.
Green Acres is also an opportunity but on a different scale.
It's more of a suburban mall obviously than Kings.
I like it in some of the centers that we own in the Los Angeles marketplace.
We're extremely familiar with how to do business in markets like this.
There is an opportunity here at Green Acres to take one of the department stores JC Penney who have some of the highest sales per foot for JC Penney of any Penney store that we have in our portfolio.
And they want to get into a new full-line store.
And the nice thing is that the space that they occupied really is mall shop space.
It's right on the 50-yard line on the mall and the opportunity there would be to expand then possibly outboard convert their store into shop space.
Maybe even dream a little bit and add a second level and connect it into the existing one anchor second level that's got a food court and is only anchored by Sears.
So then you'd have a fully two-anchored second level that would have both Sears and Penney on it.
We see a lot of upside there.
We entered with Green Acres in 1995 when Vornado bought and they ended up buying it back then.
Green Acres today does $800 million of total business on campus.
Now to put that into comparison North Park in Dallas and Tysons and centers like that those are numbers like those types of centers in terms of total business.
Obviously it's coming from a lot of the big boxes.
And not so much from the fancy luxury tenants but it's still a very productive center.
Certainly fits with the category of you would cater to the masses and you eat with the classes.
So we're very optimistic about where we're going to head with Kings and Green Acres and we're thrilled to have them in our portfolio.
Turning now to developments.
There has also been some folks that said maybe that's Macerich between their development pipeline and now this new acquisition.
What are they going to do about their balance sheet? First of all as Tom pointed out our balance sheet from maturity schedule view point has gotten significantly stronger over the past few months.
And it is going to continue to get stronger from the view point of floating rate debt versus fixed with any ratio you want debt- to-EBITDA any ratio coverage ratios it is much stronger after these acquisitions than it was even at the beginning of the year.
Looking at our development pipeline to remind you the imminent development pipeline that is unfunded is only roughly $250 million which is our share of the development at Tysons Corner.
And you may remember that I pointed out to you on our last call that we have at loan at Tysons Corner in coming due February of 2014 which only has a balance of $300 million on it.
So the idea of completely repatriating the dollars that we and our partner Alaska Permanent Fund are putting into Tysons Corner in 16 months or so is certainly there and our partner is amenable to such an idea so that is very manageable.
Looking to Tysons Corner and the development itself.
I'm pleased to announce today that we have signed on with Hyatt Regency for them to come in and operate and use the Hyatt Regency flag at the hotel component that we are adding to the property.
They are very bullish on the prospects there.
And there will be a separate press release that will be coming out of the organizations either today or tomorrow that will point that out.
I'm also pleased to report to you that we're making significant progress on the leasing of the office tower.
I would not at all be surprised if before we report to you in our next quarterly earnings call three months from now.
I would not at all be surprised to have announced to you that over half of that building has been leased to one or two significant tenants So we're making very good progress there.
So I think the idea that once the infrastructure gets up to the podium level sometime in the spring of next year the idea that we continue to go completely vertical is most likely in the cards and on an office tower of this nature once you've got 50% 60% leased the rest of the tenants really kind of fill quite nicely.
So we're very pleased about where we stand on that.
Fashion Outlets of Chicago the leasing remains terrific.
We're not re-leasing the names of tenants maybe even until the opening.
But I can assure you the quality of the merchandise mix there is going to be second to few.
August 1 it's a grand opening date.
We're in line on budget.
And I'd point out to you that the equity that we're putting into the Fashion Outlets of Chicago has already been funded.
That's what frames the construction loan.
The construction loan will be used to fund the balance of it so that it does not have any development overhang.
We're very happy to announce also on Chicago at North Bridge Mall the addition of Eataly to our projects.
The Eataly will be occupying space just off of Rush Street in location across the street from Nordstrom basically.
Its 60 000 feet it's even larger than the Eataly that you know in New York.
The owners and sponsors of Eataly or the Farinetti family and others and Mario Batali are extremely bullish about the prospects in Chicago.
Local folks in Chicago real estate folks and otherwise firmly believe that this is going to have a significant shift of the balance of traffic down towards our side of Michigan Avenue more southerly section of Michigan Avenue.
And it even further bolsters our decision to open up North Bridge to Rush Street by creating a new opening soon over the next six months and a new escalator up in the center court there that will advantage off of the current traffic that we have off our Rush Street and that will drive traffic in more than one way in to the mall.
Right now we only have significant traffic coming off of Michigan Avenue but this will give us another level of traffic off of Rush which is actually one level below upper Michigan Avenue.
And we're very bullish about that.
While everything that we're doing in connection with Eataly and the escalator court and everything else is going to have great impact on the center.
But it's not a lot of money.
Our share of the CapEx for that alone is less than $10 million big bank for our buck not a lot of money.
So we're very pleased about where we stand right there.
Then just kind of getting back to what Macerich does every day.
We had an opening during post this quarter close on October 5 of a relocated JC Penney store at Victor Valley Mall in the High Desert in Victorville California.
It's an interesting center.
It does $459 a foot in spite of the fact that over the last couple of years it's been operating with two vacant department stores.
But as part of a repositioning plan there we relocated Penney from 50 000 feet small store to 100 000 feet give or take.
They had seven stores open this fall including some in urban locations big cities and they tell us that the particular store at Victor Valley was the best performing store of the seven that opened.
We can see it already from the traffic that the community loves it.
And we fully anticipate that when we take the other vacant store which is currently under construction which was an old Gottschalks and we bring out a more fashion for that market store at Macy's to replace them which will open up in March of 2013.
We think that this center will easily surpass $500 a square foot.
That's an example of taking a B-Mall and turning it into A-Mall if you're going to measure it by sales per foot similar to what we did at Modesto and Fresno the types of things that we do every day here.
So with that I would like to open it up for questions and welcome you to this call.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll take our first question from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Just a question on North Park just want to understand what the income statement impact is in terms I recognize the $75 million was a preferred investment.
What were you actually accruing in terms of NOI within the unconsolidated joint venture statement was it just a preferred return on the $75 million or were you actually earning 50% of the NOI? The FFO impact was based on our equity investment and it was approximating $10 million a year.
It had nothing to do with the NOI.
It was related to the preferred return I believe right Tom? Yes.
I think there was some investor concern that from an NAV perspective that your NAV you would have been ticking up 50% of the NOI but clearly on the implied sales price for an asset of that stature it would imply something much less.
So what you are saying is the NOI that was being derived was off of a $75 million base and some fix percentage of that rather than 50% of the NOI.
The bottom line impact was $10 million over the last couple of years as the investment grew over $100 million.
So roughly 9.65% return on that amount.
There was $163 million of debt right? There was also a kicker on top of that debt that could have been as much as $75 million to $80 million.
And then in terms of FlatIron I completely agree selling assets at that point was much much better than selling stock.
I just want to make sure I understand the dynamics in terms of the yield that you're buying backing at I assume there has been some growth in NOI.
Is it fair to assume that the buyback was at about 6.5 cap? Closer to 6.
Partner buybacks are difficult to talk about but you're in the zip code but it's closer to 6.
And then it was extraordinarily helpful Art as you went through the sources and uses.
I guess from an ATM perspective you talked about what was done in the third quarter.
I assume that means nothing within the fourth quarter or you continue to tap that? We've done nothing in the fourth quarter.
And then as you think going forward clearly just as sources and uses there was more debt in getting excess proceeds.
Do you think about adding more equity to the base or you feel comfortable where you are today going forward? If you roll through pro forma and factor in the acquisition of Kings Plaza and Green Acres we're comfortable where we're at.
The debt-to-market cap is about 45%.
As we said that average maturity schedule gets pushed way out to over six years and the debt-to-EBITDA is in the high-sevens low-eights.
All levels we are comfortable with.
On the hand I will say that when we announced earlier in January that we were going to be disposing at non-core assets at the time it was really intended to recycle capital predominantly into our portfolio whether it was going to be into the redevelopment pipeline the development pipeline reducing leverage just focusing on our core opportunities.
The opportunity through these acquisitions to effectively have recycled that money from dispositions directly into a home turned out to be terrific for us.
Look I'm not a big fan of creating earnings accretion through cheap debt.
It's just a fact function of the math.
But the fact that we did also use a fair amount of equity as part of consummating transaction between the equity and ATM equity and the real estate equity is over $400 million of equity that was recycled into these acquisitions.
So they were completely levered up.
However our goal remains the same.
We can never have too much equity and we can never too little debt.
We can never have too much core assets and we can never have to view non-core assets.
So the idea of continuing to opportunistically go ahead and think about recycling somewhat of what we considered to be our non-core assets which will include malls that we might consider somewhat considered to be B Malls and even Cs they'd be even in A over the course of this next year is clearly something that we will consider.
And when you're sitting on $0.10 a share of forward-looking and when you really look at the acquisition as a total if you got the $0.10 by clawing back the $0.10 of dilution it's really $0.20 when you really do the math of the acquisitions.
There is an opportunity to do continued dispositions which will take debt off the balance sheet raise equity to reduce further debt improve the ratios and still have a decent amount of accretion from this activity and have an even stronger balance sheet and then we're going to continue to do it.
There are no further dispositions planned that will happen this year.
There are clearly dispositions that are being looked at in the near term.
And we'll take our next question come from Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
So basically when you were talking about the non-core sales last quarter you maybe didn't expected but that actually included North Park and not a lot of the other sort of B-Malls that you have talked about going to being in a bottom 20 of your centers? It includes both.
In beginning of the year it was primarily the other stuff.
As the year went on when we raised our guidance level on dispositions are began to North Park.
But that was still up for debate as to whether or not that was going to be disposed up.
But clearly considered North Park to have been our non-core in fact the factor because we didn't manage it we didn't release it and we didn't get any synergies from it we didn't control it.
It was just a financial investment.
It had a big hope certificate.
And you know what I would do that with South Coast Plaza and Bellevue Square and centers of that nature all-day along.
I would make the same investments with the hope certificate that it became a real pursuit it did not.
It is what it is.
The opportunity to recycle $300 million of debt and equity back into opportunities for Kings and Green Acres and owning all the FlatIron worked out terrific for us.
And then on Tysons last quarter you talked about March or April being the next drop where there could be kind of more focused go no-go decisions.
And based on your comments today it sounds like and at least in two of the three components that it continues to lean more towards a go at that point? Well the only thing that was potentially going to be paused was the office tower.
The platform that gets build and believe me this is a one dimensional communication and it's a three dimensional project.
So I know it's probably hard to imagine.
But we're doing all of the sub-terrain infrastructure right now which includes couple thousand sub-terrain parking spaces.
We build it up to a platform which is two acres of a Plaza up in the air that is above the ring road above the parking lot speeds into metro link and speeds into the second level of the mall and then sitting on top of that is the hotel and the residential tower and the office tower.
The hotel is a go it's Hyatt Regency.
We're very happy about that.
The residential is a go.
The thing that I mentioned before in terms of the phasing of the construction was that our go or no-go decision.
We would have to make that decision in the spring March April or May to have it continue to be on exactly the same schedule as the others.
My prognosis and the thing that would drive it is if you are more than 50% leased or you feel really good about the leasing which is really a lead tenant or two.
Today I'm much more optimistic well that can change about where we stand on the leasing.
And again I would not at all be surprised if we were to make an announcement before our next earnings call that would show that we're more than half leased that we have anchor tenants there that would cause us to continue with the office tower.
And in fact the result of all that is that the office tower opens before any of the three towers.
It opens up I think in the spring of '14 and then I think the hotel and the residential tower come mid and then late '14.
We're very very bullish about where we see our conversations on the leasing and the office side.
Then just lastly do you have the regional sales growth? Yes we do.
Yes regional sales growth was 17% in Arizona; 6.7% in the east; 11% in California Northern California and Pacific Northwest 11%; Southern California 10.8%; and Central region on a comp basis excluding North Park up 8.2%.
And we'll take our next question from Nathan Isbee with Stifel Nicolaus.
Art just going back to your comment before about the pro forma debt-to-EBITDA in the high sevens to low eight is that including all the development projects and redevelopments you have teamed up? No that's as of January this year we closed on Green Acres.
Obviously the developments don't stretch the value as much as an outright acquisition because obviously we're looking at strong returns in the 8% to 10% range and value substantially lower than 6%.
So there is kind of built-in equity there.
So you're comfortable even with all that activity? Well obviously the developments will temporarily until they come online and start.
Servicing debt will increase debt-to-EBITDA slightly.
But on the other hand you've got the disposition effort that Art mentioned that we expect to be ongoing.
And we're not done with that initiative of selling non-core assets and redeploying capital.
That will be going on as well.
The method involve here outright dispositions it could also involve the possibility of allowing somebody to co-invest with us on a partnership level on certain assets.
On the Kings Plaza when you talked about the efforts there to take the sales from the $650 up to the Queens Center type levels.
Kings Plaza clearly it's in good asset but has not had a lot of money put into it for many years both interior and exterior.
Can you talk about what type of dollars you might have to spend there just to get those sales to attract those types of tenants? The truth of the matter is you don't have to spend anything to do the day-to-day re-leasing that we do to increase the productivity.
We took the sales at Queens Center in the first five years of ownership from $600 to $1 000 a foot and didn't put a penny into it.
And it was pretty old and beat up too.
So look it's a great opportunity to give it a fresh face.
Do I think it's a Queens Center in terms of $1 000 a foot center? No.
But I think it's got the opportunity to have at least a couple $100 a foot in productivity increases which isn't so bad especially when you also have the opportunity to potentially increase the mall shop GLA by recapturing anchor spaces.
It's what we do every day.
It's taking big spaces that defensively got leased to big boxes and carving out into smaller spaces.
It's recycling functionally obsolete huge anchors.
I mean 339 000 feet four levels for an anchor store is ridiculously big.
And recycling that square footage it's what we do every day.
And it doesn't involve having to buy any more land building.
It's all within the four walls of the building.
We have taken a look at some numbers.
And we actually have a plan to one of them to recycle about half of the Sears building into shops and/or anchor space and freshen up the mall and I think that plan is in the $50 million to $75 million neighborhood total.
But the returns on that which are not in our acquisition numbers because we don't control recapture of facilities we're mid-teens cash-on-cash.
Our development money that we spend because it has a high hurdle especially when you're buying a center that has not been brought up to date.
And we know centers that have not been brought up to date also just to let you know.
We try and stay ahead of the curve.
But you spend the money when it makes sense to spend the money.
You don't spend the money just to be spending the money.
The time to spend the money is part of an anchor repositioning.
And then you'll completely reinvent the center.
So that five years from now you could walk into Kings Plaza with a blindfold on compared to today and you wouldn't recognize it I'd totally believe that totally believe that.
So it's safe to say that any significant work there would be coupled with some activity on the Sears space? Well that's a big opportunity.
But on the other hand there is lots of low hanging fruit.
But what we do and that's not a criticism of the former owner.
Look we bought Queens from somebody that was a pro.
We bought Santa Monica Place from the Rouse Company they were pros.
Anytime a new owner comes in that has a vision that's different from the old owners vision and the vision can be made to reality.
And it was a good idea.
We make a lot of money.
We generally that's what we look for when we buy.
And then focusing on Green Acres for a minute is that an asset that you clearly want to own long-term or is it more that it came along in the package and you're evaluating your options with it? We had a conversation with the owners of Vornado a year ago and they own more than just Kings in Green Acres.
If you were to told me a year later that we were able to get control of Kings and Green Acres I would have said boy that was a good years of work.
We're very happy with the outcome.
And we'll take our next question from Jeffrey Spector with Merrill Lynch.
I wanted to focus on operating metrics specifically same-store NOI.
I'm not sure how much you can say or not but when I look at the increase in sales per square foot over the last seven or eight quarters and the last time you reported occupancy costs to sales it seems like there was a big opportunity here to push same-store NOI over the next 12 24 months.
I don't know how much you can talk about that? Jeff the re-leasing spreads really relate and I'd given here to about 8% to 10% on the portfolio.
So if you were to have a positive spread of in this case 18% you have to multiply that by 10%.
You know you're going to pick up 1.5% to 1.8% on your same-store NOI line.
So it's certainly a key part of that.
But given the trends it would indicate that the sales are going up faster because just we can get only get our hands on 10% of that space in a given year but it does bode well for the future.
Let me answer it a little more granularly.
We just came through a budget meeting with the executive team and with Bobby Perlmutter who is with us now.
And actually a lot of you will be meeting him at NAREIT.
So that will be great.
And so we have great visibility into each asset.
And we're very bullish about the activity we have.
I don't care if it's Queens Corte Madera North Bridge.
I'm bullish on Tysons Corner.
Those are great things happening in Washington Square Santa Monica Place we're doing some terrific things.
Cerritos Kierland Commons Broadway Plaza on the development side Arrow Head Fashion Fair Fresno I mean I go through each and every center.
And I see great activity levels.
Now when we don't see great activity levels and we just see flatness and stability or even a downward trend those are the ones we're going to be exposing to the disposition market.
But the keepers the ones that are in that top 85% to 90% of NOI on a granular basis I could spend 30 minutes on every asset with you and talk to you about what we see in the next year or two.
So yes we see great same-center NOI.
It's up to us to produce it.
And we can't do it to meet quarterly expectations because we're always thinking about the bigger issue which is value creation.
So we're patient about how we do it.
You have the day-to-day stuff that we're doing it every one of our centers.
I do think there is some opportunities at the acquired centers.
There is an opportunity at FlatIron that I mentioned earlier in the call.
And then you add to that bringing online Fashion Outlets of Chicago in August which is going to be just a huge hit.
We're very optimistic about where it will be on that and obviously we'll be giving you guidance for next year on the next call.
Sorry if I missed this but did you discuss I guess development specifically given the high sales increase again in Arizona? We talked about the development that are underway which is Tysons and Fashion Outlets of Chicago where there is real money being spent.
Other than that we talked about a lot of action going on in North Bridge but not a lot of money.
So nothing else new? No.
I wanted to ask an update on Santa Monica Place I just heard Art you mentioned it quickly.
I guess any new updates there? It's going to be one by one.
There is a lot of activity going on.
I can tell you that it's in the second generation of leasing as I've said before.
It's unusual for a new center to be in the second generation two years in.
It's not unusual for a great new center to be in the second generation because within two years it becomes really obvious what concepts are working and what concepts are not.
And then Darvin takes over and the productive guys come in and they pretty much force their way in to take over the unproductive guys with our systems.
And then my last question I'm not sure if you can answer this.
But just to give us a feel for Kings Plaza Green Acres performance can you mention how their sales the sales trend there over the last 12 months? They've been similar to our portfolio and they're on positive sales trends at both.
And we'll take our next question from Richard Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Just curious more broadly what you guys are hearing in general from the tenants out there especially for the regional malls as they look going into the holiday season here and then into next year as well? They're making capital commitments.
They want to grow their business.
Nobody knows where Christmas and Holiday sales are going to be until December 31st.
I don't need to be trying about but it's just we get this question every year and I don't know.
But if you look at the prospects for the next year to two years to five years to ten years they're bullish as they can be.
I do hear some anecdotal evidence that those that you can measure on the department store side are increasing their hiring to have more staff on the floor in anticipation of greater sales.
But you know what it's going to be what it's going to be.
Do you sense any change? Can you tell me who is going to win the election? I'll take a shot at that but I will not do it here.
The thing is I'm in Ohio and listen my vote is open for sale.
What I was thinking more about is from last quarter to this quarter is there any change.
I mean are they accelerating the way their positive thought process or maybe gotten little more cautious? Sure.
Bobby is here.
Bobby Perlmutter you want to comment on the leasing side Bobby? I'd say it's a general role.
We see the market continuing to improve.
I think generally people think it will be a good but not great holiday season.
I think one of the real positive trends is some of the companies with larger fleets are really more focused in the BB plus category for their expansion which is probably a significant improvement over the last couple of years.
But we look at our biggest tenants and our biggest tenants generally their business is good and when their business is good they open more stores and in particular gap who is a large tenant for everybody seems to have stabilized significantly over last 12 months.
So if we think about year-end occupancy where are you thinking I guess year-end occupancy for this year? The occupancy always moves up a little but at year-end.
Last year it was 92.7% and that was up from about 92% at the end of the third quarter.
So we expect to see that maybe 93.5% something like that Rich little bit of tickup in the fourth quarter.
And then kind of a strange question we don't have the JV data yet.
The depreciation expense in the JV seem to go down substantially which changes of course the FFO based on what the income line is.
Is there anything special that happened in I mean in the D&amp;A I guess of the JV line? You're saying that JV line went down sequentially or compared to last year? Sequentially exactly.
I'll have to get back to you on that one Rich.
Then the last thing I had was the $255 million on your line of credit Tom are you comfortable leaving a balance on the line or you have some plans I guess to clear it down to zero? There's a lot of capital activity Rich.
And as we raise cash it will go against the line obviously going the other direction as we borrow for the development of Tysons.
But certainly we have a lot of capacity above that.
It's a $1.5 billion line that we can take to $1.8 billion and we've got less than 300 outstanding at the end of the quarter.
So we're very comfortable with that.
Keep in mind the interest rate is about 2% on that and also keep in mind throughout all these other transactions we keep pushing down the percentage of our floating rate debt in total.
And so when you combine all those things we're very comfortable with where we stand on that.
And we'll take our next question from (inaudible) What was the timing during the quarter of the North Park sale? North Park was in mid-August.
And I know you said that you don't have any structure similar to North Parks in your JVs but just one question on the Heitman JV I know there's a repurchase agreement for Macerich seven years when it occurred.
Is that a repurchase agreement? Is that a fixed price that's already been negotiated or is that more of after price? My recollection is that it's a formula price at a fixed number.
Those joint ventures as well as the FlatIron joint ventures had disproportionate shares of income and residuals at times coming to us after the investor saw certainly return.
But you're right.
We did get the opportunity to have some form of a formula right in that agreement with them.
But look they are great partner and they would love to expand their relationships with us.
So I don't see that to factor.
And we'll take our next question from Todd Thomas with KeyBanc.
Just wanted to follow-up on Nath's question from earlier it looked like from the language filed with regard to the acquisitions that the Green Acres sale was conditioned on the closings of Kings Plaza.
But it's a little hard to understand from whose perspective that might be from? It sounds like they both have additional investment opportunities and some upside.
Was one of those centers more attractive in your view? Yes Kings was a bit more attractive because there are very few centers that have the opportunity to do something along the lines of what we did with Queens.
At Queens we hit a grand slam four times in the same game.
At Kings we think we've got huge opportunities.
Green Acres is just a real citizen.
It's very solid sales over $530 a foot.
The total center does $800 a foot.
We have a very specific profitable simple easy to execute expansion plan that doesn't involve a ridiculous amount of money.
And we own plenty of centers in Los Angeles like Lakewood and Stonewood in Downey that are in markets like this that are incredibly dense high barrier to entry markets where they density protects you on the down side and it also gives you opportunity on the upside.
Which one do I think has got the opportunity to become an A Plus A Plus but Green Acres is a very solid citizen.
And it's a type of property that I grew up.
And in terms of the tenant mix and the anchor line up the fundamentals are basically very good there.
But the big opportunity is Kings.
And don't forget and I'm not going to speak for them but there were different owners of the two centers two different public companies.
So we were happy to transact on both of them and are happy to transact on both of them.
And as to any linkage I would recommend you to talk to the sellers not to me.
And you mentioned that there was minimal damage if any at your properties from the hurricane.
Any update on Green Acres and Kings Plaza how they were during the storm? We were in close contact with the folks there and they are both opened for business and a nominal damage at each.
I'd say they fit into category of a whole bunch of assets as well as lives on the East Coast that things could have been a lot worse.
And then you all know that better than I do because I wasn't there for it.
But I understand natural disasters and we feel for everybody.
It could have been a lot worse just form our own selfish view point.
But at the end of the day we were closed one to two days at a half of dozen properties including Kings and Green Acres which by the way we don't have a history of announcing acquisitions the time that we put them under contract in definitive agreement.
But it's hard to say this but it was material for the solo but not material for us.
But that's what they told us so it had to be disclosed.
And then a question for Tom.
In terms of leverage I get the improvement in fixed charge coverage ratios and the reduction in floating rate debt and the extension of the average duration of your debt portfolio that's set to improve meaningfully.
But the absolute level of leverage is edging higher.
And I was just wondering what specific metric do you focus on for leverage and where are you comfortable taking that to? Look Todd we don't focus on just one metric I think that's a mistake.
I mean we look at certainly layering out the maturity schedule trying to not have too much rolling in any one year and that was really the emphasis this year and we've extended that significantly.
Our floating rate debt has come down a lot because we look at that as well and although today's rates are extremely low that could change pretty quickly.
So we're really focused on reducing the floating rate debt level which is something we look at.
We do look at debt-to-EBITDA but we realize that's going to move up and down a little bit depending on where we are in the development cycle and where we're with dispositions and that's done that.
I mean at the end of the third quarter debt-to-EBITDA was about 6.9 times which is unrealistically low.
That was after we raised the equity from the ATM and before we'd closed on FlatIron.
After most of this activity it will be closer to eight times and we're not uncomfortable with that either given the coverage level.
So we look at overall leverage.
We look at the maturity schedule.
We look at the amount of floating rate debt and we look at debt-to-EBITDA.
I'll try and immune on that.
There is again just one of those you can never have too much equity and you can never have too little debt.
But the most important metrics that has changed for us in the last two to three years and even in the last year is the impending maturity schedule and the average length of the maturity schedule.
As Tom mentioned I think you mentioned Tom that by the end of the year our average maturities will be six years.
Those are average maturities of fixed rate loans that are non-recourse at a property level that Tom and his group have been staggering out.
We're at the point to where today we sit here and debate with each other over whether or not we have too much debt coming due in the year 2022.
And that's a quality problem compared to worrying about how much debt do I have coming due next month or next year.
So we've lengthened out our maturity schedule dramatically.
We do have a couple of big maturities coming up next year and the year after but they aren't great assets.
You got Scottsdale Fashion Square I think is next year Freehold is a healthy one next year.
But the market looks like it does today to increase that non-recourse financing significantly if you wanted to.
And then February of 2014 is probably the most under levered asset that we have.
It is a big mortgage of $300 million but that property can support the mortgage a big multiple of that if it wanted to.
And then you look at our overall liquidity levels and we're sitting there with let's say $1 billion over capacity left on our line of credit.
But we do have in our ongoing business plan the idea that we're going to continue to prune our portfolio and pruning our portfolio to me is more important than optics.
So that's why I mentioned earlier on North Park.
It was not an operating platform asset and the opportunity to reduce our leverage and repatriate equity to the tune of $300 million at a cost of depressing our sales per square foot that we report to you about $15 a foot.
I'll trade the optics for the cash and the lower debt all day long.
We're going to continue to do that on the balance of the portfolio.
I want to emphasize the financing for Green Acres Kings and FlatIron is done.
There is no short-term borrowing plan here.
We're not borrowing short to buy long.
The equity is permanent equity.
The equity from the dispositions is permanent equity.
The Queens refinance was 12 years.
The Chesterfield was 10 years.
The Kings Plaza financing is seven years likely and Green Acres is probably 10.5 years to 11 years and FlatIron has a loan coming due next year that we can over finance and take a lot of money out of it if we want to.
So I feel very good about where we stand balance sheet wise.
Our goal is just to make them stronger and stronger and stronger but keep in mind that we are a non-recourse borrower.
These are asset level property debts and the maturities have been extended dramatically and the upcoming maturities are extremely light for the foreseeable future.
And our development pipeline is virtually funded on the projects that are underway with the exception of Tysons you know what that number is we also told you how that can be repatriated whether it'd be refinancing Tysons in February of '14 or we may elect to fund it through selling assets in the next six months too.
That's a great use of our balance sheet and of our capital.
And we'll take our next question from Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
Just going to Kings Plaza and Green Acres as you've outlined Kings Plaza your intension is to bring it to a Queens Center type mall.
As you see Green Acres can you talk about the big sales that generates do you see that as you think about your redevelopment being more of a big box center or you think it's going to still be a lot of in line? Where do you see more of the growth essentially adding more big box or adding more in lines? It's repositioning Penny to a prototypical store.
So right now they've got about 97 000 feet but it's all in line shop space and half of it is basement.
And in spite of that they're doing the highest sales per foot or any Penny I think that we have in our portfolio.
Two stores that Macy's has a Kings and Green Acres rank in the top four Macy stores that we have in our company out of 60 stores.
The Penny store at Green Acres is maybe the highest sales per foot we have in our portfolio.
And the Sears the stores that they have at Green Acres and Kings both are in the top 10% of the 40-some Sears stores that we own.
But the opportunity is to help Penny.
They very much want to build a new store there.
They see a massive opportunity here for themselves.
They see it as one of their top priorities in their company.
We talked to Macy's about it they talked about that store just doing gangbusters and the special returns are doing $530 a foot.
So the simple opportunity as I see it is to help Penny look at an expansion in a new building outboard of their existing building redemise their existing shops space into more traditional mall retail.
And potentially connect that new two level Penny into the existing partial second level which is only anchored by Sears in the food court and other shops.
I don't want to say it's routine but it's pretty routine is what we do every day.
It's fairly sizeable.
And the Wal-Mart I forget if that's a super or not but is that also source of potential improvement or they own their box? They're a tenant.
They lease space.
So is there upside there to extend their size? I think there is an expansion and a significant increase in rent that's underway right now and in documentation.
So Tom as you think about financing these sometimes we hear folks say if they're going to redevelop assets your floating rate short term debt as they can improve the NOI before long-term fixing it out.
You guys are long-term fixing out.
Is there more because of the attractive rates that exist today or is that because of the timing of the redevelopment is uncertain at this point and therefore it may take several years versus something more in the near term? Actually it's a function of being a very strong borrowers market Alexander.
So rates are good spreads are good.
We're able to build into the documents latitude to do expansions on those space recapture that space.
I got to tell you the Queens financing was very very competitive.
We saw the same thing on Deptford.
Kings and Green Acres are going to be the same.
And we're able to get a fair amount of latitude to get our hands on the asset and redevelop down the road.
Look if we were closing down the center like we did at Santa Monica Place the idea of putting seven-year financing on it you wouldn't do it.
But all the work that we're going to be doing is within the confines of what can be carved out in a new loan and look being able to borrow $500 million at a sub 4% interest rate for seven years give or take at Kings.
It takes a lot of interest rate risk off the table.
And from the viewpoint of does it take proceeds five or seven years from now opportunity away from yourself I would say not so much.
And in the meantime I'd rather be locked in and say 3.6% for seven years and not play the interest rate game.
So we do see huge upside there in terms of what we can do.
It will take some time.
Realistically our property like that it's three to five years give or take.
But if the loan would have gotten in the way of the redevelopment and you couldn't carve it out then you wouldn't put a long-term loan on it.
And we've been one of those people that say such a thing.
But we think it's just prudent balance sheet strategy to go ahead and take advantage of the proceeds level.
We had no maturities to speak of in 2018.
We could have gone 10 years.
But like I said earlier we're already beginning to say alright we got a lot of stuff coming due 10 years from now because of all the work that we've been doing lately.
Just final question is on Tysons.
Can you give some color as to the tenants are these tenants who are relocating from nearby submarkets or are these tenants who are growing substantially and therefore need to have new space? Clearly the story is coming out of DC on the office side have not been too upbeat.
So sort of curious where these tenants are coming from if they are new to the market if they are just relocating or if they need to really expand just a little more color? Relocation.
From within DC or within the suburbs? I'm really not going to get more specifics than that.
And we'll take our next question from Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Not to beat a dead horse but I just want to be crystal clear on what you're saying.
You have no intention to issue any common equity in the next couple of months to either fund the acquisitions you've done or otherwise.
Is that what the message you're trying to get across here? We are fully financed at this point in time permanently financed.
And I'm not going to say anything more than that.
If I just think about FlatIron did GI have a put rate? What enabled the timing of that now versus in the future? That was very much a financial transaction at the time.
They're more of a financial investor than a real estate financial investor or a mall real estate financial investor a dedicated mall type of partner.
So it was a fairly structured deal where they had the rights after a three-year period.
No that was not a put.
They had the right to look at exposing their position to the marketplace.
They did that and along the way we elected to step in and take control of the assets once they had some clarity as to what the marketplace felt their position was worth.
We were already into a significant promote on the property over and above our 25% interest and that enabled us to buy in at a very attractive rate which represented part of our promote too.
So not even quite a buy-sell either? There is a buy-sell in every partnership agreement generally that I have ever seen.
But that's not what was used here.
They just had the right to take their position to the market.
And while they were doing that we were in constant conversations and we elected to go ahead and to take control of the asset.
We had to balance that against other opportunities that we're looking at in the marketplace.
And when it felt that this was the best place to put our capital we stepped up and did it.
And we'll take our next call from Omotayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
A quick question just curious how you guys are thinking about the unsecured market at this point just when I think about all the financing you're doing a lot of it is basically secured? Tayo we've looked at that from time to time the unsecured that we have on our balance sheet is primarily just our line of credit but we keep an eye on that market.
However we given the size and quality of our assets they tend to be very very big financings institutional quality and getting some extremely attractive rates.
So we see some good financing on the unsecured side.
But it would limit what we could do on the secured side if we were to go that route.
So we're very happy with the direction we've gone and type of financings we're able to put in place.
But we do realize the unsecured market looks good as well.
And then Art just a quick question in regards to Arizona and that whole market how you're thinking about it at this point.
I know it's still a lot of interesting things you could be doing there.
You haven't put a timeline.
But I'm just curious whether it's getting closer or whether still watching and then we'll take a while before you do anything new in that market? The market continues to get better.
You're right about that.
By many measures it's a lot better than what people realize.
And homebuilders are building again and they're even complaining that they've got labor shortages believe it or not and there is tech coming into the marketplace.
All of the fundamentals are really good in Phoenix.
And if you look at the cycles in Phoenix it's up and down about every 10 years something happens and usually it's like a year or so and it bounces back.
This was highly unusual but this was like a three-year bottom.
But it's clearly on its way back.
When we feel that we have sufficient tailwind that justifies ground-up development in Phoenix then we'll be talking about it.
We're not talking about it today.
And we'll take our next question from Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Just two quick questions.
Just going back to the JV theme so I'm crystal clear on that.
In all the JVs you have at this point are there any ventures in which your economic position is different than the position that is represented in the 8-K at the moment? I think the only ones would be on the plus side that there are some promotes that we have where we have a bigger piece of the upside in a couple of joint ventures that are out there.
But as Tom indicated earlier if you're applying whatever cap rate you're applying to our portfolio income the NAV accretion or dilution on the sale of North Park is relatively de-minimis.
But there is nothing else of that nature in the portfolio.
Just staying on North Park.
The interest cost was roughly $11.5 million a year.
I think on the loan that was in place and prior and so there is a $10 million FFO hit.
It means that you've been reporting so far $21.5 million or something of that nature as part of your unconsolidated NOI on that property is that correct? The NOI was closer to $20 million but in fact you're trying to come up with an NAV a piece if you may not be aware of is there was a kicker on that loan.
When that loan can due there was a kicker due to lender and so you'd have to factor that into your valuation as well.
What were the circumstances around that kicker? That's got nothing to do with us Tom.
Honestly it did not affect our position it affects the properties position and the family that owns it now is positioned.
It doesn't affect us never was going to affect us.
We had a preferred equity position and at the end the total FFO that was coming in from that preferred equity position Tom said earlier was around $10 million.
And the dilution from getting rid of that $300 million investment was around $0.05 a share.
And the dilution from the other dispositions was around $0.05 a share.
And when you take into consideration where we put that money the accretion is net $0.10 a share positive.
And we've gone from non-core to core and we're very excited to be where we're at.
And we'll take our last question from Ben Yang with Evercore Partners.
Just a quick one for me.
I think Art you mentioned buying partners out can be quite noisy highly structured transactions but at the same time I think you said your partners at FlatIron tested the market for that piece.
I was curious how far that 6% is from a market and maybe more on like transaction? Is there a good rule of thumb to adjust cap rates when we see stuff like this happening? Could you repeat that please Ben? You were kind of coming in and out on that.
I'm just wondering the 6% on FlatIron highly structured but at the same time the partners tested the market out as well.
What's a good rule of thumb to adjust? I mean what would the market cap rate look like on FlatIron is it 6% is it 5.75%.
Just curious if you have any thoughts on that given the fact that they did test the market? The property is on its own on a standout basis would probably trade at least a 100 basis points lower than the position that we were able to come back in at.
But that was a function of the structure of the deal that had structural advantages in the deal that aren't necessarily transparent to everybody just reading that we owned a 25% interest in the center that we had another 20% promote that we were already into the promote.
There is no rule of thumb.
So that's when you think it's about a 100 basis points in size? The bottomline is if you're buying a partner out the partner wants to believe that they got full value and you don't want to pay more than full value.
And you do it for reasons that are the reasons that you do it for at the time.
So we felt it was a very good use of our capital.
We were happy to do it.
And there really are no rules of thumb.
It was a very attractive transaction from our viewpoint and it was an attractive transaction from our partner's viewpoint both at the inception and at its conclusion.
And that's a basis of good partnerships.
Is there still kind of a mid $400 a foot mall or has sales trended up since you sold that interest to your partner? No sales are north of $500 a foot.
And we've got some very attractive simple plans there that we think are going to help us take it up to its next level.
And it's a great center couple that with our 29th Street just 8 or 10 miles up the street it's a very nice concentration that we've got there.
We look forward to seeing all of you in a couple of weeks in San Diego.
And thank you for joining our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference call.
We thank you for your participation.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to The Macerich Company Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on our fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risks associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company’s press release and SEC filing.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures that defined by the SEC Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is included in the press release and a supplemental 8-K filing for the quarter which are posted in the Investor section of the company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman; Tom O’Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Robert Perlmutter Executive Vice President Leasing.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Jean.
Today we will be discussing the fourth quarter results capital activity and our outlook for 2013.
Also most of you noticed in the supplement this morning we have reintroduced the additional tenant sales per square foot by property disclosure.
We’ve also stratify what percentage of our NOI comes from each major sales group.
We have also added some additional joint venture disclosure and NOI by state.
Looking at the operating metrics for the quarter the fundamentals continued to be good in our business retail sales had another good increase.
We saw very significant increase in occupancy level 93.8% which is 110 basis point increase from year ago.
Leasing volumes were good and spreads were good as well.
We signed 373 000 square feet of leases in the fourth quarter average new rent of $46.66 or approximately 15.4% a positive releasing spread.
The occupancy level I mentioned a second ago 93.8% was also up 80 basis points sequentially compared to September 30th.
Occupancy costs as a percentage of sales averaged 12.8% that’s in total combining joint ventures and wholly-owned.
Looking at adjusted FFO for the quarter came in at $0.90 per share that was up from $0.87 per share a year ago.
For the year FFO was $3.18 up 10.4% from $2.88 last year.
Same-center NOI in the fourth quarter excluding lease termination revenue SFAS 141 was up 2.8% for the quarter and 2.9% for the year.
Negatively impacting the quarter were lease termination revenues which were down $1.7 million compared to year ago.
Also SFAS 141 revenue was down significantly down $2.1 million compared to a year ago.
And lastly also negatively impacting the quarter was $2.5 million charge for acquisition cost on the Kings Plaza acquisition.
So combine those items were negative impact of about $4.05 to that fourth quarter FFO number.
Management company expenses for the quarter were down slightly at $18.6 million compared to $19.6 million last year and we also in the quarter had a significant gain on remeasurement of assets that is not in FFO but it does impact net income and essentially that was marking the market the portion of Arrowhead Towne Center and FlatIron Crossing that we owned prior to buying at our partners’ in the fourth quarter which took our ownership of both assets up to 100%.
Looking at our balance sheet our debt-to-market cap at quarter end was 43.5%.
During the quarter and to date in the fist quarter of 2013 there has been no activity on our ATM program.
During 2012 we had a lot of significant financings we completed $2.5 billion in total that’s a pro rata share including recent financings that were done in January of Kierland and Green Acres.
We’ve closed on over $1.6 billion of financings since November 28th.
That includes Kings Plaza Deptford Queens Center and Santa Monica Place.
Looking at all those transactions that have been closed since the end of November the average term was 8.2 years.
The average interest rate was 3.35.
At year end if we look at debt-t-market cap pro forma after the acquisition of Green Acres debt-to-market cap was 45.3%.
During the year we also reduced our floating rate debt which was 28% at the beginning of the year down to 21.7%.
And most importantly of those statistics our average maturity schedule from 3.2 years at the beginning of the year to over 5.5 years after the closing of Green Acres.
Our interest coverage ratio in the fourth quarter was very healthy 2.75 to 1.
The current balance on our $1.5 billion line of credit after we closed on Green Acres is $580 million that leave us $920 million of capacity before any deleveraging from dispositions in 2013.
Focusing now on FFO guidance this morning’s earnings release we gave our range of $3.32 to $3.42.
Looking at the key assumptions in that range we included an assumption of range of $500 million to $1 billion dispositions during 2013.
This is the generic assumption.
We assume this happen mid-year at an average cap rate of 7.5%.
It assumes property level debt for about the third of the sales price when average interest rate of 5.5% and the remaining two-thirds of the purchase price is assumed to come in the form of equity which goes down to pay our line of credit which currently has an interest rate of 2.25.
As a result of those disposition assumptions we are factoring $0.07 in the low side to $0.14 on the high side for dilution from those mid-year dispositions.
Also in the guidance was same-center NOI growth range of $2.75 to $3.25.
We also factor in $0.06 per share of dilution from the assets we sold mid-year in 2012 the remaining effect will come through 2013 and that’s a negative $0.06 a share.
Other than Green Acres we’ve assumed no 2013 acquisitions in the guidance.
And again give guidance -- quarterly split on guidance the first quarter approximately 23% of that total FFO second quarter approximately 24% third quarter this is post-disposition assumption approximately 23% and fourth quarter 30%.
Tenant sales came in for the year up 5.7% we reported portfolio sales per foot of $5.17 and that is up from 2011 when it was $4.89.
At this point I’m going to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom.
First of all I want to review with you and welcome to our call the results of 2012 and give you my outlook for 2013.
2012 remind you was a great year for Macerich on many fronts.
One year ago we gave our Board of Directors a five-year plan on where we want to take the company and at Board meeting last week I told them that frankly I felt that in the last 12 months we had accomplished almost 80% of that five-year plan.
One of the big things that we had -- that we wanted to address in our five-year plan was to make a material extension and lathering of our debt maturities as well as to address the debt that was coming up in 2012 and Tom and his team did a great job you saw the significant more than $2 billion of refinancing that were done during the year at very attractive interest rates and we had the ability to layer out the maturities so that extremely well spread out in over the next 10 to 12 years.
The average maturity schedule was taken out significantly and we have an opportunity obviously this coming year to further add to the extension of our maturity schedule and to layer in some very attractive new debt.
Another objective that the company had in 2012 was to increase the percentage of income that we get from wholly-owned assets.
During 2012 we were able to do that by acquiring at an attractive price our partners’ interest and FlatIron Mall in Broomfield as well as our partners’ interest in Arrowhead.
Finally on the acquisition front we were able to acquire two extremely attractive opportunities for us in the Greater New York area with Kings Plaza and Green Acres.
On the development side our goal was to execute the two major developments that we had in process and to really identify for the future and clarify our development pipeline.
That Fashion Outlets of Chicago we now are over 87% signed in terms of leases with another 10% out for signature.
We are very bullish and the tenants are very bullish about that property and the grand opening on that is set on August 1st.
All of the income that we are receiving in terms of the leases signed as well as the cost that we are spending are on plan and on budget in every way.
The identification of Tysons the goal there was to identify and sign a hotel flag which we did with Hyatt Regency.
We think it’s a perfect compliment to the people that frequent the trade area as well as to shopping public that come to the Tysons Corner area.
And the key goal was to land a major anchored tenant for the office tower and we are able to do that which announced a couple months ago.
It’s relocation from the Bethesda area with Intelsat who is taking between 188 and 217 000 square feet of that building and we’ll further about that as I move into 2013 on our goals there.
So the identification there is doing extremely well.
On the leasing side we had great results in 2012.
We had very solid year in terms of our same-center growth and anticipate a strong year and the year ahead.
Dispositions we identified early last year we gave you guidance that we would be selling some non-core assets.
We did in fact do that and we recycle that money basically into the acquisition of the $1.7 billion of assets that we acquired through our partners’ interest at FlatIron Arrowhead and the two properties that we acquired.
One of the highlights of the year was on the people front we were able to convince Robert Perlmutter to join our team as well as -- as EVP heading our Leasing team as well as Tom Leanse former partner at the LA office of Katten Muchin to replace our retiring long time General Counsel Rick Bayer.
And we welcome them to the team and we think that this gives us tremendous bench going forward.
Looking forward 2013 there are no new acquisitions seen on the horizon.
Obviously that something that is always hard to predict but don’t see anything on the horizon.
There is certainly nothing in our guidance at this point in time.
Our debt schedule as I mentioned is extremely manageable and we have opportunities through some major refinancing of the three great properties to continue to latter our maturities raise excess refinancing proceeds and to take advantage of the current low interest rate environment with Scottsdale Fashion Square.
We are currently in the market doing a refinance getting bids on that.
Later on this summer we’ll be in the market on FlatIron where we anticipate the ability to significantly over finance that.
And then of course later this year at the end of this year we have the opportunity to refinance Tysons which we think will be an interesting opportunity for us and as I mentioned you in the past we will choose we can easily refinance the shopping center along there and completely repatriate all of the dollars that we put into the identification of the project.
On the development side as I mentioned we have the grand opening of Fashion Outlets of Chicago coming up this year August 1st.
And Tysons we are already beginning to get interest from an additional anchor tenant in the office tower.
We anticipate that over the next quarter or so we’ll be announcing an additional anchor that will take us to well over 65% committed.
And on the shopping center side of Tysons we are beginning to get a lot of interest from retailers as they are wakening to the opportunity that has being created by the identification and the introduction of the rail.
We are getting a lot of new retailers are looking to come here and we are beginning to shuffle retailers around as we began to prepare the introduction of the Plaza into the new second level of the expansion there.
And we also are beginning to do the releasing of the expansion wing that we created in 2005 as those leases are expiring over the next 24 months.
We are already beginning to talk about with tenants recycling coordinating and redeveloping the entire wing.
On the smaller note at Victor Valley we had JC Penney opened very successfully.
They went from 50 000 foot store to a roughly 100 000 foot store at Victor Valley in the High Desert here in California.
And we have Macy’s opening at that center in March of this year.
We are very bullish on what’s happening there.
We also have Dick’s Sporting Goods is going to backfill the old JC Penney store.
If you take a look at the schedule of our historical sales at Victor Valley its actually interesting and topical to note that that’s a center that over the last four years has had two vacant department stores and in spite of having two vacant department stores and surviving solely on a small JC Penney and a moderate size Sears store sales at that center increased because of the strength of the market.
With the addition of JC Penney a couple of months ago and now bringing Fashion Anchor with Macy’s to the market.
We are extremely bullish on the opportunity at that property.
At Fashion Outlets of Niagara we’ve talked about in the past pre-leasing for our 150 000 square foot expansion is going extremely well and we could break ground on that project later this year with the possibility of an opening late next or into 2014.
There’s been great interest in that project.
It’s met all of our hurdles in terms of the economics.
We are going to see double-digit returns on our incremental cost which should be around $75 million to $80 million very bullish on that.
Broadway Plaza in Walnut Creek we added Neiman Marcus to Broadway Plaza in March of this year.
And we finally have a plan that we feel extremely comfortable with will be acceptable to anchors as well as to the City of Walnut Creek.
We had some logistics there in dealing with Army Corps of Engineers issues and other issues.
But we now have a plan that we are extremely excited about that the retail community is extremely excited about roughly we will be if things go according to plan demolishing in phases about 50% to 60% of the GLA that’s in place of Broadway Plaza and then rebuilding in phases so that we’ve start that demolishing in January of 2014 with the first phase reopening in 2015 and the second phase reopening in ‘16 very very excited about that.
That’s about $220 million expected budget.
We do have a partner there.
So our half is $110 and we expect to see high single digits probably 9% incremental types of returns on the new money that we are putting in over the income that has in place today.
At North Bridge we announced during the year that Eataly is going to be coming to join this center.
We expect them to be open later this year.
We are going to be opening up a new entrance from Rush Street up into the center which we think will dramatically improve the circulation.
We have completed the recycling and relocation of office tenants on levels 2 3 and 4 of the office building so that we can create a signature 25 000 square foot give or take Street Iconic Flagship retail location that we think its going to be of great interest.
Kings Plaza we are already deep into the conversations about bringing new merchants to Kings Plaza and we think the opportunity to do a major development at that project all within the four walls of the project is something that’s going to happen sooner rather than later.
As we look at the opportunities there we think and the retail community clearly sees the vision that that’s an opportunity to take Kings and to bring it into the conversation where there would be same conversation as Queens Center in terms of the dominants of its trade area.
Green Acres is likewise we see great reception in the retail community and we are already in conversations with several big boxes that are interested in coming for these centers several retailers that are interested in coming to the center as well as the possibility as we look at it JC Penney would love to expand their store there.
We are supportive about idea and we are in the early stages of having those conversations.
At Santa Monica Place we’ve been working for quite some time on identifying working out with the City of Santa Monica opportunity to put an anchor on the third level of that center.
We believe we are very close to working out an arrangement with the city where we can place an entertainment type of anchor on the third level of the center in the 50 000 square feet that’s sits above Bloomingdale’s so we very bullish on that.
In that connection and the tying into same-center NOI Tom gave you guidance for same-center NOI in 2013.
I’d like to point out that at each of these development opportunities North Bridge Tysons Corner Santa Monica Place Broadway Plaza and couple of others but certainly those four in particular.
We have significant high rents that we get but when you are doing major expansions or redevelopment you tend to put the leases into limbo and/or you put certain tenants out of business.
We have to put certain tenants out of business at North Bridge.
At Santa Monica Place we are currently holding off on certain leasing to announce the new anchor on the third level.
We are into a second generation of releasing at Santa Monica Place.
It’s going to dramatically increase the merchandise mix.
We don’t take those expansion wings that are in centers like that out of our same-center NOI.
We treat the entire property holistically.
But income at Tysons and at North Bridge for example and even Broadway Plaza is going to be down in 2013 as we either have frictional vacancy making the way for new tenants that want to come or we are decommissioning space to bring in anchor tenants or decommissioning space to create a new entrance to Tysons Corner.
It’s a different story of each one but if you -- if we were doing normal day to day leasing of those centers my guess is that our same-center NOI growth this year if we weren’t taking space off the market would be another 50 to 75 basis points over the announced level.
I know that disposition is something that you all interested in hearing about.
We decided after purchasing Kings and Green Acres as we look at our balance sheet and we look at the fact that we had acquired those two centers and Arrowhead and FlatIron’s partner interest using 72% property specific or other property level that that we did want to raise equity to reduce that debt level to a more normal level in terms of what we normally do on an acquisition and also to raise equity for the purpose of funding our development pipeline.
We came to the conclusion that there was a great opportunity to do a reverse 1031 striker exchange into Kings Plaza and Green Acres.
And we took about a dozen assets that we had a very low tax basis in and we did an exchange into those properties so that it would enable us to expose those properties which general our older properties that we own for a long time generally in secondarily and even tertiary markets at times that generally have sales per foot they are in the $330 per square foot let say average range.
We started the conversations in late November.
We had a broker [Estile] who exposed 14 assets to the market and we had another broker to expose three assets all three assets that we own in the Greater Seattle area to the market.
So there are 17 assets that are being exposed on the retail side of the market and they are office complex at Redmond Town Center is also in the market right now.
The reason we expose that number of properties is that those were the properties that either our partner wanted us up in Seattle to expose to the market or that we wanted to give the opportunity to the buying public to invest into to raise equity.
The intent was not to sell all 17 of the assets.
The intent was to offer a sampling on a limited time offer and that’s what we did.
We’ve gotten a significant amount of interest.
There is a half a dozen groups that are bidding on the ‘14 assets that are in the market right now.
Some of those groups are bidding on one assets some are bidding on two or three assets.
Couple of groups are bidding on three to five assets and there is a group bidding on even more than that.
We are in the middle of -- they’ve all been doing extreme amounts of due diligence since early December.
And we’re probably in that phase where we’re in the point of the second relevant conversation on pricing and we’re very close to beginning to identify the appropriate mix of the buying groups as we look to capitalize on the current environment.
The target now exactly how the buying groups will perform as a buyer ourselves.
When we’re buying something we have complete confidence after we’ve done our due diligence that we’re going to perform.
You just never know when you are on the flipside of that.
We’ve done our best in giving you our guidance at $500 million to a $1 billion and are best in terms of trying to predict the timing.
Time will tell and we’ll see where we go with this.
I’m clearly optimistic that the minimum threshold of that guidance level will be achieved.
I know you are going to be interested in the pricing as you could imagine that’s extremely sensitive topic to be talking about but you could interpolate into Tom’s guidance number.
I’m sure that the pricing levels are probably in the mid seven cap rate for the assets that will be exposed.
I want to talk a little bit about our outlook for the future here and some specific submarkets.
Arizona is absolutely on fire at a real estate level today.
Employment is up dramatically.
You’ve got Arizona is leading the nation in terms of employment growth.
You’ve got areas like Coolidge in Queen’s Creek in Southeast Metropolitan Phoenix that three or four years ago had four out of every five homes on a street rumored to be under water or in foreclosure.
Now that exact same zip code has homebuilders coming in and buying land and coming in and doing improvements.
You have affordable housing in Arizona and we think that the sustainable growth for Arizona is going to be back.
We look at Arizona and Phoenix over a 60-year period of time.
Every decade it has one or two years that are off and the other eight to nine years early is in the top two or three economies in the United States.
Normally we had at this time was that we had a very large U-shaped depression where the depression lasted for roughly three years probably four years.
But now that we are rebounding we have a very bullish outlook on it.
Segueing from Arizona where our friend Phil Mickelson just want the Phoenix open to California.
We wanted to talk about our California properties also.
As you can see in the supplemental roughly 27% of our net operating income comes from California and of that roughly 16% comes from the Southern California region and about 11% from its Northern California and Central California included in Northern California is Fresno and Modesto.
Both of those economies as you know the Northern California economy is on fire.
You know that from all of the other sectors but Southern California I can tell you at a ground level is rebounding very strong.
Santa Monica is now called Silicon Beach.
You’ve got the housing market here is on fire again.
If our entry -- not even an entry but somebody wants to buy $2 million to $3 million home in West Valley you are in multiple bidding processes now.
And the overall economy and the outlook here looks very good.
Notwithstanding Phil Mickelson’s comments about his income tax situation in California after Proposition 13 there have been questions that have been raised as to whether or not the legislature here might take a step towards tax and real estate in a more aggressive manner.
So we took a look at our entire California portfolio and asked ourselves the question what would happen if our promotional property portfolio here will reassess to current market value because that’s essentially what profit the Prop 13 does not do.
Does it limits what it does is it limits the growth and market value from the date that you either acquire a property or the date that you redevelop it to roughly 2% a year.
So if you go in the property for a long period of time the chances are it’s only been going up 2% a year.
And if you’ve been driving the income chances are it’s under assessed.
We took a look at our whole portfolio and interestingly enough about 40% of our portfolio has been recently assessed in one way or another either because of a major new redevelopment like the Oaks or Santa Monica Place or because of just recent new negotiations that we’ve had with assessors.
About 60% -- 50% to 60% could be exposed to a Prop 13 revaluation.
When you take into effect the entire possible increase in the real estate taxes I believe the net effect in terms of earnings after taking into effect our recovery pools was about $800 000 a year that we would have in slippage.
I believe that people came to the conclusion that you might have a potential tax increase of $13 million in our entire California portfolio and that our slippage on that might be $800 000.
The effect of this tax is going up would have the effect on the properties affected of taking their occupancy levels from 13.3% up to 14.2%.
So while we certainly are going to do everything possible to support the idea of keeping Prop 13 in a fact and certainly given all of our conversation with the governor’s offices indicate that they are not coming after Prop 13 and even if they did the Jarvis Amendment Group from 1976 era powerful in California is really -- imagine that Prop 13 will come under attack.
But even if it did happen it’s manageable.
Taxes on balance in California today are generally lower than elsewhere around the United States.
So while our income taxes are higher and sales taxes are pretty healthy our property taxes are lower.
So that would be the effect of that.
I’m going to open it up for questions here in a minute but I want to finish by just talking a little bit about the new disclosures that we come out with and particularly the property level sales per foot and attributable income disclosures.
For about two years I’ve been frustrated with the myopia of the two dimensional sales per square foot metrics that we are in the mall stage report to you.
And I have also been frustrated by the chasing of optics that some people would want us to pursue either by disposing of low sales per foot center or some thing of that sort.
We don’t run our (inaudible).
We do sell a significant number of assets as part of our pruning assets.
Of assets it would have a tremendously beneficial impact on the sales per foot of our portfolio if you take them from say 517 a foot to mid 500 555 560 all the centers that are being looked at to be disposed below the top 30 centers in our portfolio.
We are not doing that for optics.
We are doing it because it’s good business.
Going back to my frustration of sales per foot by itself in the -- from 1990 to 2000 the metrics that most people talked about with regional mall owners in terms of gauging the power of their portfolio was how much GLA did you own.
As we move into the next decade we started talking more and more and more obviously about sales productivity.
And there is a tremendous amount of focus on that today as there should be.
What has not been talked about or disclosed is where is the money coming from and that’s what we wanted to do.
We wanted to give you what amounts to an economic sales per square foot number.
And that’s why we came out and we gave you not only the sales per foot for the most recent year we also wanted to show you the trends since the last time that we reported and we wanted to show you where the money is coming from from each of the deciles of assets that we own.
And remember those numbers are our pro rata shares of those income.
We felt that by doing so it would give you greater visibility into the tremendous quality of our company and our portfolio and the visibility that you deserve.
With that I would like to open it up for questions.
Thank you.
Is it possible to get the breakout of retail sales by region? Sure Craig.
The retail sales by region is for the trailing 12 months per square foot basis.
The central region was up 7% the North California of 6.6% Southern California 5.3% Arizona 4.0% and Eastern region 5.5%.
Okay.
And the strength that you had mentioned in the Phoenix area are you seeing that widespread throughout Phoenix or is it concentrated in certain areas of the city? No.
It’s widespread.
As I indicated probably the toughest hit area and all of the Phoenix was the area south southeast of Gilbert the Queen’s Creek in Coolidge area and that’s even got homebuilders.
We own a piece of land that we thought was going to be a retail site.
We’ve pretty much written off on our minds four years ago.
We got homebuilders coming to us who want to buy just broad desert and come in and improve it to do subdivisions.
We got old GM Proving Grounds east of Mesa that DMV owns the 5 000-acre track that they own there.
They just had a half dozen homebuilders coming and buy big tracks of land to work there.
So I mean it’s across the board.
You’ve got high end of luxury apartments being built throughout the year.
We have a lot of urban infill.
It’s happening around the around the Scottsdale Fashion Square area a lot of action around Biltmore Fashion Square.
Obviously (inaudible) area is doing great.
West Phoenix is beginning to rebound nicely which actually gives us confidence that our site out there in Goodyear is something that is going to be something that we want to build on in the foreseeable future.
So it’s the entire trade area of extending all the way down through the quarter going down to Tucson.
Okay.
I’m going to turn it over to Jeff.
Thanks Craig.
Just one question just we appreciate the additional disclosure and I thought it was interesting from Group 3 your top 21 to 30 malls that’s where you saw the largest increase year-over-year in sales per square foot and listed by a couple of the malls but I don’t know if there is anything there you want to talk about anything by mall or by region in particular? I don’t think there is anything necessarily profound in those numbers there.
Okay.
I don’t think there is anything profound there.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Nathan Isbee from Stifel Nicolaus.
Good morning.
Again thanks for additional disclosure.
As you look at your portfolio and how much of your sales are coming from the higher productivity malls can you comment on what you believe is a reasonable internal growth rate from your portfolio? As I look at the ‘12 and ‘13 combined even if you add back the redevelopment disruption it’s about 6.5%.
Some of your peers are trending better during that period.
Well we have a long history of being able to attain same -- same-center NOI growth? Yeah.
Okay.
I mean we have -- Tom could even go through the history with over a number of years about what the same-center over a period of time has been.
And I did want to give you color into specifically 2013 and that also applied to 2012 in my comment that I’m not -- I do know that look we -- if we’re redeveloping a center unless we’re shutting it down it stays in our same-center NOI.
And you could have drops in the income and significant at time as you’re taking it especially at high end center or a center where you got big rents.
You can actually have a reduction in income from frictional vacancy as you’re replacing moving tenants out and moving tenants in.
And the advice I would give you for 2013 is that we are not doing that at the four or five centers that I identified or same-center growth for 2013 would easily be 4%.
Nate everybody defines that same-center growth a little differently.
It’s not a GAAP number.
And so I think what’s important is how it is relative to and how we done in the past as we’ve had the same definition.
And 2013 as we’ve given guidance will be a higher same-center NOI growth rate since 2006.
But it’s not what we aspire to.
I mean I understand your point that at two and three quarters to three and a quarter that appears to lag others.
I understand that point I get it.
Okay.
No because the color is helpful.
Yeah.
Thank you.
And then just on the planned addition on the top floor at Santa Monica.
What are you envisioning just there in terms of a credit tenant and how much capital you would expect to spend there? It would be -- it’s a large project that involves something there as well as something on the promenade.
And it involves a development agreement that we undergo shading hopefully with the city.
So we’re not prepared to be more specific.
It would be less than $50 million of the total project.
It would have greater than 10% returns on it but much more importantly it would be a huge traffic generator for the third level.
It would be of use that it would be the most natural use to put on the deferred level with all of those restaurants and also to drive huge traffic up through the center.
So you could speculate that in entertainment use and the city of Santa Monica is in desperate need of a first-class cinema.
We don’t have one haven’t had one for a number of years.
It’s public knowledge in Santa Monica that AMC had plans to build a new theater at Fourth in Arizona and they backed away from that agreement a couple of months ago.
So we’ll see where that all goes.
We’ve always felt that the natural anchor would be of theater use and there is lots of political issues that have to be dealt with.
But we’re fairly optimistic that everybody’s interests are aligned and that’s something that we can finally tap into over the next year.
Okay.
Great.
And then finally to Tom what does guidance assume in terms of the ATM during ‘13? There is no equity assumption in 2013.
Okay.
Thanks.
On that point we were asked the question as to were we intending to reload our balance sheet after the $1.7 billion of acquisitions three months ago and our statements too was that yes we did intend to reload our balance sheet and that we felt that dispositions of non-core assets would be an excellent way to go.
And we’re well into that process.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we’ll now go to Christy McElroy with UBS.
Hi.
Good morning to you guys.
Good morning Christy.
I will join the fray and thank you for the disclosure.
It’s really much appreciated.
How long does INTELSAT have to decide whether or not the full 50% of Tysons office building? And are you not actively marketing that additional space because of that option? They will be deciding in a couple of months.
In an agreement like that you have backup people but I’m not sure what they’ll do.
It’s actually when you look at the building it’s about 520 000 foot office footprint the entire building.
So they are just over 40% and -- but like I indicated we are far along with another anchor tenant in the letter of intent stage and hope to be able to announce that soon that would take us up over 65% leased in after that.
It’s just you have a whole bunch of tenants that are single floor take the whole floor type of tenants.
So we’re very bullish on where we’re headed with that and we are -- it is a go-project on all three towers at this point in time.
Okay.
And then regarding the Fashion Outlets of Chicago you’ve spoken in the past about forging sort of a link between the center and the airport through shuttle buses and bag checks things like that.
Can you talk about some of those initiatives that you are working on to drive tourist traffic from the airport? And will they be in place day one? I believe it will be.
As we get more color on that I will let you know we have a TSA approved provider that is approved by the Department of Homeland Security to actually do the baggage claim checks and issue tickets of that nature at this center.
So look it’s in progress.
We think it’s an opportunity but we think the center is going to do terrific just from its regional draw through automobile and real traffic and mass traffic to the extent that we’re able to tap into the layovers or the people going to and from the airport.
That’s a bonus but it’s a bonus that I think we’ll take it into extremely high levels of productivity.
And we’re going to open up every door of opportunity that we can there.
Okay.
And then just lastly at North Bridge I know the buildout isn’t costing you much but can you say what Eataly is paying in rent? So just trying to figure out what your sort of direct return on that investment is aside from sort of indirectly just driving more traffic to the center? I’m sorry.
I cannot.
Okay.
But it’s….
Have you given a return on that? Pardon me.
Have you given a return on that project? No.
I think I did indicate the total project is under $20 million from all the efforts that we’re doing there I would anticipate that will raise the NOI at least $5 million from that activity but I don’t really think it is being at 25% return but that will include Eataly area.
Got you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll now go to Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors.
Hi Cedrik.
I just wanted to add my voice to all of those that have already thanked you for significant additions to the disclosure package.
It is very much appreciated and it’s very much going to help the work we do.
Thank you.
I guess when I look at your asset disposition plans and those investments you have made in the fourth quarter depending on the number of properties you are able to sell during the coming quarters.
You may still have perhaps some equity that you may want to fill.
Given where your share price are at this point how interesting is it to issue more equity now? Well it’s not disinteresting.
I mean we did sell -- we did tap into the ATM at around $60 to $61 a share in September.
So that’s some guidance but at this point in time even though we had a wide range on the dispositions we think there are lot of people that have a lot of work on the buy side the different private equity groups as well as a couple public companies.
We need to let that hand play out and see where we end up.
It’s possible that we can raise a $1 billion of equity from these dispositions.
So we just really need to let the hand play out and sequentially revisit at topic as time plays it out a little bit.
It’s not disinteresting but right now I think we are inclined to let the hand play out.
Look if there’s significant slippage for whatever reason on the buy side and again I’ll be the first to tell you.
As a seller I can never predict what a buyer will do.
I can always predict as a buyer what we will do.
But if there was slippage on that side of it and then the idea of tapping into the equity markets either through the ATM or in a direct deal would be something that we would have to seriously consider given our overall goals to reduce our debt-to-EBITDA ratios.
But more importantly just to raise the capital from the equity markets or dispositions to fund our development pipeline.
That’s really what’s driving this.
We’ve got this development pipeline here that we would prefer to fund with either rollover of asset sales or potentially common equity.
On the refinance side we have enough that we can refinance out of the three to four properties that are coming up this year.
We can fund our whole development pipeline doing that.
But that would tend to drive our debt levels up.
And I think as I said in the last quarter you can never have too much equity.
You can never too little debt.
And I guess I will add to that you can never have too much disclosure today.
That’s good.
And in terms of the potential buyers into the 17 properties you have in the market is there anyone that would be interested rather in a joint venture with you or are those all outright sales? If we opened up the idea to joint ventures it would take the universe to a much larger group of people.
Yeah.
There is definitely where it be.
Some of those folks would be interested.
But if we opened up the ideas to joint ventures there is significant amount of capitals from many sources that have approached us.
But one of our goals at this moment in our life is to increase the percentage of income that we have wholly-owned asset.
We just think that that’s a better goal for us at this point in time and it’s a goal that we can take advantage of at this point in time.
And to some degree a lot of these assets that we are selling are unencumbered and we could go and raise.
There is tremendous amount of money just by encumbering the assets but that kind of runs counter productive to pruning the portfolio and to the idea of just keeping our debt levels continuing to drive them down without a specific goal.
But the only goal being you can never have too little debt you never have too much equity.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Michael Mueller from J.P.
Morgan.
Hey Michael.
Hi.
I guess one question looking at the tearing of the assets how do you think about the lower productivity Arizona assets where obviously essentially you have a big stake in the market there but you have a handful of assets that are lower lower productivity.
Are those properties that you hold onto just because of your concentration in the market or are they assets that could make their way to other buyers at some point? They fit different buckets but I would say that overall they could be assets that could be in the conversation to end up in other people’s hands especially the lowest tier.
Got it.
Okay.
And then Tom just a couple of quick ones.
Are there any acquisition costs in the first quarter? There is a acquisition costs on Green Acres that is factored in the guidance Mike.
Okay.
And about how much is that? It’s going to be approximately $2 million.
And as I mentioned we had about $2.5 million range in the first quarter related to Kings Plaza.
Is that in G&amp;A? That’s in shopping center expense that follows the assessment.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just last question.
Just what is the assumption on the transactional items for ‘13 if you think of like lease term or outparcel gains? The least term is always the touch one to predict.
We work on the light side on our assumption at $7.5 million which is roughly where we ran this year.
Over the last five or six years we average $12 million but the assumption is in at $7.5 million for next year.
And I don’t think we -- we have nothing in for outparcel sales do we? No.
See in our portfolio Michael I know that it runs through certain other folks’ numbers but that’s not something.
You rarely see that come through our numbers and a lot of it because we have predominantly urban centers that don’t have excess land to be sold.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
And next we’ll go to Quentin Velleley from Citi.
Hi there.
I will thank you guys for the disclosure as well.
That’s the most fun that we’ve had at 6.30 AM in the morning for a long time.
Just in terms of your bullishness on Arizona does that bring the Goodyear development project potentially back onto the agenda? It’s certainly something we’ll be heavily focused on this year.
The department stores are telling us that they’ve got it in their sights.
Retailers are warming up to idea.
So we will be making a decision I think as the year progresses.
I wouldn’t be shocked as we move into the latter part of this year if we were to make an announcement that we are going to go forward.
It’s about a 33-months timeline from announcement to grand opening.
So we are not making that announcement yet but I wouldn’t be shock if we were to make it later in 2013.
Okay.
And just going back to the… You just have to remember just when you look at the market that when you look at the market there are 700 000 people in the Goodyear trade area that do not have a regional mall to go to and it is the only place on the 10 freeway between Phoenix and Los Angeles that has -- the center wants to be built in the next 10 to 20 years.
So it’s by far the most underserved portion of the market in Phoenix.
You could argue that the southeastern portion is fairly well over served.
But certainly the western portion of the market is extremely underserved.
So I mean it’s not a question of whether.
It’s just a question of when.
Okay.
Just in terms of the 2014 potential asset sales is the demand or the level of interest sort of equivalent across all of those assets in terms of quality or productivity? Or is it sort of fair to say that there’s less interest in those lower-productivity lower-quality assets in that pool? Yeah.
I mean everybody wants to play the optic game especially the public companies that are bidding.
They just want to do high sales per foot and that’s what they are focused on.
So with its low sales per footing -- if it’s got a great opportunity to make money if it doesn’t meet the optics that they think that people want to hear then they don’t think they are supposed to do it.
The private equity guys I think are a little bit more intuitive about that and they are more value-oriented.
And so their interest tends to be broader across the spectrum.
We didn’t know which assets would be interesting through which teams.
So again when we put 14 assets out there really wasn’t ours and we didn’t expect all 14 to go.
And we certainly expect anyone person to come in and bid on all 14.
But they are in different regions.
There are different geographic concentrations and we find the real mix of bids.
We have one group that bid on six and another group bid on five of them.
The other group bid on four of them and another group like more than eight of them and it’s interesting.
The overlap is not necessarily exact.
Some people wanted just the only game in town some people wanted high sales per foot and some people wanted bigger markets.
It is an interesting mix.
So we didn’t want to decide for them.
We just said look this is what we are willing to expose.
We exposed it.
I would say that they’ve done a tremendous amount of work because we have indicated to them that we are not just putting our tow in the water we are real about this.
And that we are willing to take earnings dilution to do the right thing for our balance sheet.
And we will see where it goes.
I can’t -- again we don’t control their performance but it’s been a healthy amount of interest and we’ll see where it goes.
There was another big reason for again I touched on it disclosing is that look if all 14 of them would go than the optics of our portfolio as reported in one single number would’ve magically look terrific.
But then I said you know what we don’t control the buyers so why not we just show everybody where the money is and where the sales are.
And then they can realize that bottom pool of assets is only 3% or 4% of their income.
So effectively by telling you what’s there it’s almost as good as selling.
And in the meantime we are very committed to the process.
The buyers are very committed to the process.
We are at that point to where we are picking buyers on the 14 -- the group of 14.
The Seattle group is about a month behind and we’ll see.
I think that certainly by three months from now we will have great clarity on all of that events and that’s another final reason frankly for putting these numbers out here is that if we sell let’s say seven or eight of or whatever 10 of them everybody is going to want to know which ones did you sell and what did you do.
And we could say we sold some centers that averaged 330 a foot and it raised our overall productivity to 550 a foot or we could give all this detail and then you can see exactly what went out of the door and then what we owe.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O’Neill.
Hey good morning out there.
Good morning Alex.
I guess I will join the crew.
It was exciting to use Quentin’s term.
It was exciting to see the return of the disclosure.
Before I get to that just two other questions.
First Art to your comments on Prop 13 what do you think the impact would be to your tenants if suddenly they had to bear market rate property taxes? I mean there’s no free lunch so it may be a pass-through from your perspective.
But clearly the tenants have to be able to absorb it.
What do you think the impact would be on them? Yeah.
So I may have been talking rapidly but it would increase their occupancy costs by about 90 basis points from 13.3% occupancy cost as a percentage of sales to 14.2%.
Okay.
So from a sales productivity and a margin perspective you would expect that probably the vast majority of the tenants will be able to bear that.
Yeah.
I mean it’s about five bucks a foot my guess is what it would be because centers are averaging 500 bucks.
I’m using very round numbers.
90 basis points is four and a half bucks.
It’s about five bucks a foot in typical term.
Okay.
Okay.
Then that’s helpful.
Next… And then the other thing just when you think about it is that look at Chicago Chicago and Cook County the big regional malls they have taxes 26 30 35 bucks a foot.
And yet those are great regional malls in Chicago are very well occupied.
And you’re still getting decent rents.
And what happens if the retailers interested they accepted it’s a fact of life in places like Chicago Minneapolis anywhere where they fund their entire budget from real estate taxes or they fund their school districts like in Iowa from real estate taxes.
The real estate taxes can be quite high.
But if you want to be -- if you are tenant and you want to be in Chicago and you want to service the Chicago market you’ll expect the fact that taxes are high.
And then you go there anyway.
If that were to happen in California I don’t think people are going to say I want to do business in San Francisco.
I don’t want to do business in Los Angeles.
And in the meantime their burden might be going from whatever six bucks a foot to eleven bucks a foot.
It’s still unbalanced not that bad compared to other places.
You did not expect it to happen but it’s a very legitimate question.
Look the first thing that I thought other than what Phil Mickelson thought when they pass Prop 30 and increased our personal income taxes retroactively while they are making after Prop 13.
And we met with the Governor’s office and they were very involve with the California Business Properties Association which is the strongest lobbying group you and we’d be super hard for them to come after.
Proper team walking it’s in the drinking water in California.
But even they did I wanted to tell you.
I don’t want to be a political progress indicator.
I want to tell you what the impact would be if it happened.
Yeah.
I appreciate that.
For the large amount of income we have here.
Yeah.
I appreciate it.
I mean KIMCO mentioned a number of years ago when they bought the PNP and everything reset then the market fell out that some of the tenants suffered because they have the twin effect of taxes going up and then their sales going down.
That’s why I was just curious.
Second question is Tom… That makes sense.
In that business if you are buying the strip centers at a low cap rate you are dealing with tenants that are -- you are taking their occupancy costs from 10 bucks to 20 bucks a foot that could hurt.
Okay.
In a mall if they are going from 55 to 60 it’s more manageable.
Okay.
That’s help.
Tom the preferred market -- a number of folks this quarter have been commenting about the attractiveness of pricing.
Given that preferreds aren’t tied to the corporate there is no default ability or whatever would that be a market that you would look at to access for additional capital? We keep an eye on that market Alex.
It was pretty heated up in the fourth quarter cooled off a little bit.
The calendar got kind of crowded whatever but we keep an eye on it.
I mean it is still likely in the low 6% range which is kind of pricey compared to the long-term financing we are getting.
But we keep an eye on it.
It’s not overly appealing but we do keep an eye on it.
Okay.
That’s great.
Listen thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I usually don’t like to pile onto these but I think this is worth it.
I really do appreciate going back to the disclosure on the sales and the NOI as well.
And just kind of looking at that I mean if I look at some of the malls that have shown the biggest kind of compound sales growth in this window here at least some of them maybe because they fell a lot during the housing bust.
But some of them may also signal opportunities for expansion.
And I am wondering whether you might look at it that way things like Washington Square or Los Cerritos or Corte Madera which are up double-digit on a compound rate over this period -- are there more opportunities there? You’ve mentioned what you have got it your pipeline now but do you look at things that way? Yeah.
There is a huge opportunity at Washington Square.
We own excess land there that we are debating about how to handle it.
Sears owns a very large building there.
I think close to 250 000 to 300 000 square feet.
I’m not going to predict if that’s going to come back to us but if it did there’s a huge amount of FAR development opportunities and a huge number of tenants who would want to be there.
We have -- at Cerritos we have a huge development opportunity that we are not really talking much about right now because we’re pinning down exactly what it’s going to be.
But we -- a year or two ago we relocated Nordstrom from a older building to a new building and now we have that whole lane that we are deciding what to do with and again a huge Sears store there.
That’s clearly in the expansion horizon.
If you look just at our top 10 centers there’s something going on in each and every one of them.
We are talking about a new anchor at Biltmore Fashion Square and or in expansion there at Corte Madera.
Nordstrom is affectively tearing down their store expanding it and we are looking at a modest expansion there that is going to have a dramatic impact.
And I think Corte Madera fits that profile Bobby of centers that even though sales were on fire there we have been moving tenants around in preparation for bringing in some new more highly productive tenants that hurts the income.
Tysons Corner you know the story there.
North Bridge I have talked about Santa Monica place you’ve heard me talked about that.
Cerritos is huge.
Kings Plaza we think that’s a fabulous opportunity.
Tucson we are talking to a specialty department store about the possibility of coming there.
I mean the list goes on.
Broadway Plaza we talked about that.
Kierland Commons there is an opportunity to add a significant anchor retailer there.
As I’m going to list of the top 20 we’ve got an expansion plan that I could talk about in detail about everyone of them.
And so then kind of summing that all up as you think about what your maybe aggregate or annual development CapEx over the next three to five years would be do you have a rough number on… I’m not really ready to revise that number.
I mean as we identify the opportunity we will put the number out there.
I did just mention that clearly Tysons is a full green light on all aspects of the developments.
So we are moving forward there.
We are finishing up Chicago.
Niagara it’s roughly $75 million to $80 million of expansion double-digit returns there.
As we and Broadway Plaza I mentioned a number on that today on the call $220 million.
Our half is one-tenth.
Santa Monica place it’s hard to know what the number is.
It could be $25 million give or take.
It could be $50 million including some other land that we might get involved within the city but it would show a very nice return.
So we will work on identifying that pipeline.
But I’ll preferred I’ll just keep the tangible ones in front of us the ones that are going to be opening in the next 18 months to two years.
But there’s clearly opportunities and then there’s been speculation about obviously one or two anchors maybe going at a different direction and virtually every center that’s certainly are your best centers virtually every center we would have a very interesting plan if that space were to come back at us.
And it’s hard for me to update that pipeline for you.
But it’s something we will be clearly working on over the next three months to six months.
Okay.
And then just lastly you mentioned the 50 to 75 basis point hit to same-store NOI this year.
As you look into 2014 -- I mean a lot of this stuff is still going to be going on then.
Is it also roughly that same number below a baseline or will we start to see this improvement? Or is really the improvement the acceleration relative to what is coming out now more kind of ‘15? In terms of that which we are taking out of service or having frictional vacancy on in ‘13 you’ll have tenants and they are paying rent in ‘14 in lots of these cases which will probably result above average same-center growth in 2014.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi.
Thank you.
I’m on with Jordan Sattler as well.
Good morning.
Just following upon the asset sales to the extent that some of the buyers don’t comment or you’re not getting the pricing or really seeing the demand that you would like for the assets on the market.
Is it joint venture of available option or is that off the table given your plan to try to avoid joint ventures at this point? It’s clearly an option.
And one of the options would be there is money sources that are out there that really want to invest in this category.
Let’s go ahead that the mall category.
The big issue usually is finding the right operator.
If we would agree and our strategy usually is to build a little bit of a platform with idea of ultimately five to seven years out selling it or creating a new platform that will be a new operating entity whether it would be public or private.
If we were to say through that to different sovereign groups that are out there we’d love to pursue some like this that look would be an operator.
But there is going to be an access strategy because this is not an asset class that we want to own forever and hang in there for five to seven years.
There is many numbers of folks who would want to pursue that with us.
But I think a cleaner approach for us would be a simplification and a reduction of head count and a pure recycling of capital time will tell.
That’s clearly something we could consider.
We have not gone down that path because we have enough strong interest from the providers that will take out 100% ownership.
Okay.
And then just wanted to clarify on follow to the last question about the same-store growth rate on sort of a more normalized basis.
Are you employing that without some of this activity in the portfolio the expansion or redevelopments which -- inevitably there will always be sound every year that the same store growth rate of the portfolio today would be around 4%? I can speak year-by-year.
And for 2013 I would say it would be closer to for.
I think it’s possible we could hit fully this year.
We gave guidance at the range that we gave it at but we know that we have some of these best centers that are in here actually have income decreases and you say why do you have those income decreases.
And the answer is always either frictional vacancy where if you take it at 10 as 10 000 for tenant.
And you’re not allowing them do renew the Queen centre and they are paying you 2 000 bucks of foot that’s $2 million a year the year you displacing and if you get six to nine months of down time even if you’re replacing the new guy 3 000 bucks of foot it’s expensive.
So your best centers when you recycling tenants like Santa Monica Place Tysons Corner Queens Washington Square centers of that nature.
Frictional vacancy really affects short-term results but doesn’t effect value creation.
Value creation is huge.
So I guess someone on the answer say that same-center NOI is also on the optics side a little to dimensional because it doesn’t take into account the value creation that income from being patient on same-centre NOI like for example not chasing occupancy as heard as you possibly can because you’re holding the rate that can reduce the same-centre NOI.
Look it’s a goal of ours too.
It’s probably our one number internal goal to aggressively manage and do better and better job at same-centre NOI growth.
Because on a risk adjusted reward basis grow in your income by an extra 1% a year.
You make a lot more money than even building a new centre.
So that’s our priority but there is in explanation for kind of the numbers.
It’s heard to say what the number is going to be every year for the next five years but we were very bullish on our sales support very good rental growth and the things that we’re doing at centers are them for positioning them for strong growth.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just lastly just a quick question on the new disclosures which we appreciate as well.
Should we expect to see this level of disclosure each quarter going forward at this point? I don’t know.
We will have to think about that maybe I don’t know.
I would still -- Tom’s nodding yes.
You could tell.
I haven’t even talked about.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to Ben Yang from Evercore Partners.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Maybe I have another question on the asset sales.
I think you mentioned that you do not -- you don’t think you will end up selling all 17 malls that you are trying to sell.
I’m sorry if I missed this but does that $1 billion sales guidance assume you do sell all 17 malls this year? No it will be a lot more than that if we do.
Okay.
So if you ended up selling all 17 it’s actually less than $1 billion in total value for those malls? If we sold all 17 that would be way over $1 billion.
Okay.
$1 billion in all depends on which malls they are but $1 billion could be comprised of six or seven of them or -- there’s some-centre in there with 1 numbers and some centers that are in there that are worth 10 times that numbers so.
Okay.
There is a range.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then so it looks like you are not going to sell all 17 this year.
And I am curious -- what’s the time frame for completing the reverse 1031 on these assets just to get that tax benefit on the exchange? We’ve already done pretty much everything that we need to do so we’re in good shape on that.
Okay.
So there’s no urgency to sell in the next 18 months or so? You can kind of wait it out if you don’t get the price and the buyers is not quite there? We’re taking care of the tax side that we -- look it’s a disruptive the process to expose that many properties.
So we are highly motivated to bring it to a head quickly and to either kind of get on or get off with the different folks that we’re working with.
So that this is -- the noise of this is not persistent.
So our expectation would be anybody that’s going of do a deal with us.
If there would to say say they wanted to close later than midyear they had better have a very good reason.
So in that’s why we gave midyear guidance but we think that’s probably about when on average things will happen.
So it’s coming to hit.
It’s an awkward time to talking about it given that we’re picking different routes right now.
But obviously it’s something that we need to put in to our numbers given that is something that’s going to happen this year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next well go to Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Yeah.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my call.
First of all congrats on a great quarter and again thanks also for the additional disclosure.
I just want to talk about two particular assets Santa Monica Place -- I believe last quarter there had been some conversations about some potential changes in the tenant mix on the second floor and also the restaurant bankruptcy that happened.
Could you just talk a little bit about the progress on those initiatives? Sure.
Well under way in the idea of recycling of first generation tenants into second generation tenants on the second floor for example we recycle sketchers out and brought in three people which is in more appropriate tenant.
And there -- my guess is on that second level there will be significant recycling on the second level over the next couple of years where some of the more moderate-priced juniors would be replaced by other tenants.
That we think will be more appropriate for the center.
We had good occupancy gains on the first level.
We had a -- we just recently opened an Emporio Armani store.
Bobby do you want to give some color on that.
Bobby Perlmutter will add some color on that please.
What I would say is from a general description what you’ll see at Santa Monica Place is the ground floor will continue to get deeper and its luxury presentations that’s been an over performer to date at the centre.
So Emporio Armani recently opened.
Kate Spade recently signed a lease.
So we’re going to bring additional luxury into the ground floor and improve the luxury mix away have there.
The second floor we’ll migrate more towards a traditional better mall tenant mix.
Some of those as I mentioned like a free people but some of those tenants are currently located in the market on Third Street Promenade that we think are more appropriate for our customer base and our anchors and our tenant mix.
So we will work to relocate them.
Certain of those traditional better regional mall tenants are not in the market so we’ll bring them into Santa Monica.
And then last piece as was mentioned earlier we have a large commitment to restaurants and food on the third floor.
We want to augment that with an additional entertainment anchor.
And I think to your specific question we did sign a lease with Redwood Grill who is going to soon start construction on the third floor on the vacant restaurant space.
And they will be opening up midyear.
There are restaurant operation out of Toronto that actually our partners’ Cadillac Fairview introduced to us and they wanted to be here for long time.
This was a restaurant that recently went out of business is the Japanese sushi restaurant Ozumo and that’s right next door to the third level of Bloomingdale’s where we would hope to put the new theater.
So we got folks that would be interested there but at this point in time we’ve really focus on the anchor on the third level of the Bloomingdale’s and once that happens then we think that the restaurant presentation as supplemented by a first-class theater.
We will get very robust and we would be in a good position.
So there is the case where you’re essentially holding some space of the market because you know that you’ve strong belief that you have a very good announcement that’s coming and once you make that announcement the list is going to get really long in terms of the players that would want to be up there with the theater.
The theater opportunity here in Santa Monica given the visibility of this community to the people that run Hollywood and the people that work there the directors the producers and the actors at Malibu and Bel Air and Santa Monica and West Valley is massive.
And it maybe the number one theater underserved quality market in the United States.
So we think its great thing that they do at the centre and yeah it will drive the growth.
But we know that between frictional vacancy there and just holding space off the market that the income at Santa Monica Place this year won’t be what it could be if we just went ahead and leased it anyway.
But the value creation of being patient and that’s why I say sometimes same-center quarterly growth can be myopic or two-dimensional.
It’s very important that you have to think about value creation as being the primary thing to chase.
And sometimes you have to sacrifice same-centre growth for value creation.
We think that’s the better choice where appropriate.
That’s helpful.
Could we get any similar commentary on your redevelopment effort at Atlas Park? Not quite as robust but confident.
Atlas Park is obviously a much smaller project in terms of scale.
And we made some progress.
It’s basically more of a community open air center that we worked the leasing discussions along with Queens and now Kings and Green Acres.
So that gives us very strong presence in that market.
We recently signed a lease for Forever 21.
We’ve made a lot of progresses.
It’s primarily going to be some juniors some convenience and some small-sized boxes within the center.
So I think the summary there is we got a slow start but we are making a lot of progress at the centre and we’ll see some improvement in terms of the occupancy over the next 12 months.
Helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And at this time we have no further questions in the queue.
I’d like to turn the call back over to speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining us and we look forward to speaking with you soon.
And thank you.
Bye That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Macerich Company First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on our first quarter 2013 earnings call.
We look forward to see many of you Tuesday afternoon June 4th in Chicago for our Construction Tour of fashion outlets of Chicago as well the tour of The Shops at North Bridge on Michigan Avenue.
Please contact me for the details.
During the course of this call management will be looking – will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risk associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company’s press release and SEC filings.
This call will be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the Investors section of the company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board of Director; Tom O’Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Robert Perlmutter Executive Vice President Leasing.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you for joining us today.
First I’d like to introduce John Perry our Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
We’re very pleased to welcome John to our management team in this newly created position to withstand investor relations efforts.
We’ve known John for many years at Deutsche Bank and we know he is going to be a great addition to our team.
As most of you noticed we added a new disclosure in the supplement today.
The development pipeline on page 30 of the supplement.
Mark will elaborate on this pipeline later in the call.
Today we are going to keep our introductory comments brief.
We will have plenty of time for Q&amp;A.
That being said we will be limiting this call to one hour.
If we run out of time and you still have questions please do not hesitate to call me or John Perry or Jean Wood.
On the operating metrics we continued to see strong fundamentals in our business leasing volumes and spreads were both good.
We signed leases for 325 000 square feet during the quarter with an average releasing spread on a trailing 12-month basis of about 15% – 14.9%.
Occupancy rose nicely from a year ago at 93.4% that compared to 92.1% at March 31 2012.
Adjusted FFO was up 13% in the quarter to $0.86 compared to $0.76 a year ago.
Same center NOI increased by 3.4% compared to the first quarter of last year.
And it’s important to note on that statistic that it does not include straight-lining or lease termination revenue.
This increase in same-store NOI growth was driven by increased occupancy positive re-leasing spreads in 2012 that are now rolling through our 2013 numbers and the CPI increases on our leases.
This is above our guidance range of 275 between a quarter but this is just one quarter.
So we’re not ready to modify that guidance yet but we’ll readdress that guidance after the second quarter.
We had gain on land sales during the quarter of $2.2 million.
Those were sales that we had anticipated and they were included in our previously issued earnings guidance.
There was significant savings on interest expense during the quarter as our average interest rate went down to 4.1% compared to 4.7% in the first quarter of 2012.
Over the past 12 months we have made significant progress on our balance sheet.
Our debt to market cap at quarter end was down to 42.6%.
Our floating rate debt had been reduced to 23% compared to 36% a year ago.
Our average debt maturity duration has increased to almost 5.5 years compared to 3.4 years a year ago.
We continued to take advantage of this great financing market.
During the past 12 months we have completed over 2.6 billion of financings that’s our pro rata share.
The average term of those financings has been 8.3 years and the average interest rate 3.4%.
These low interest rates that we have been locking in have had a significant positive impact on our cash flow.
Our interest coverage ratio for example has improved to 2.9 times compared to 2.5 times a year ago.
There is only about $480 million remaining in maturities for 2013 and there we have two big loans coming up one FlatIron Crossing with an interest rate of 5.32 and the other is Tysons Corner Mall with an interest of 5.22.
Both are very underleveraged with interest rates and placed significantly above where we could finance today.
Going forward we will continue to put long-term non-recourse financing in place and continue to stretch out our maturity schedule.
In this morning’s press release – last night’s press release we gave guidance – updated guidance on FFO.
We increased our previously issued estimate by $0.03 at both bottom and top end of the range with a new range being $3.35 and $3.45.
The increase in guidance is due to the strong first quarter performance including occupancy gains rental and recovery growth and other operational efficiencies.
We’ve also encountered a better interest rate environment and loan environment than when we did our initial 2013 forecast.
The guidance range includes an assumption of $500 million to $1 billion of dispositions during 2013 that has not changed from our original guidance.
As part of that assumption we also assume a mid-year execution of those dispositions on average and average cap rate is 7.5%.
Art will be discussing dispositions in more detail shortly.
As I mentioned and again we are not going to modify at this time our same center NOI growth assumption but we’ll revisit that at the end of the second quarter.
And the revised guidance quarterly split for the remainder of the year would be of the total FFO 23% will come from the second quarter 23% from the third quarter and 29% from the fourth quarter.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Art.
Thanks Tom.
First of all I’m going to talk about our dispositions recycling program then I’ll talk about our development to both underway as well as our shadow pipeline as outlined in our supplemental.
And then I want to talk a little bit about our same center NOI growth and the prospects for the immediate future.
On the topic of dispositions I’d like to first of all revisit the why behind our recycling program.
The disposition of recycling program was really driven by our observation that as a result of the acquisitions of Kings Plaza and Green Acres that we were able to do a tax advantaged reverse 10/31 exchange and take 14 assets and essentially allocate the high basis the new basis of the two centers that we have bought into 14 older centers which therefore would make them tax efficient for disposition.
Secondly one of the drivers behind the decision to expose a number of properties to the market and we exposed a larger number than we thought would be purchased because we had no idea who the – what properties the buyers would be interested in.
A second major driver of that decision was to reload our balance sheet after the $1.7 billion of acquisitions.
As you remember those acquisitions were funded using property level or other corporate level debt of $1.2 billion which is a naturally high amount and we knew that it was temporary.
We decided to reload the balance sheet through dispositions.
Another driver of the decision to go through the recycling was to essentially think about this as recycling capital from older slower growth assets into Class A higher growth assets such as Tysons and Fashion Outlets of Chicago and the others outlined in our supplemental in the shadow of pipeline.
Another driver was our decision to prune our portfolio to increase our brand value.
So that when retailers think about us they are really thinking about the best centers in the U.S.
and an extremely high quality pure portfolio.
We wanted to prune the portfolio also because we had observed and it was intuitive as well as actual but over the last 10 years if we look at it we look at our lower productivity centers versus our higher productivity centers.
The better centers produce better NOI growth the bigger centers produce better NOI growth than the smaller centers.
The smaller centers are very stable but they just don’t have the same dynamic qualities that a real powerhouse has.
And finally the decision to recycle capital out of these lower sales productivity and non-core geographic locations was to heighten our focus of our management team on fewer bigger assets we did not want to dilute our focus and our attention.
Now I’d like to report to you how the disposition and recycling program has been going.
We started the process in December with early teasers through brokers and we exposed the properties through a number of buyers and we got a significant amount of interest and we’re pleased with the progress and the status of the disposition.
Having said that while I’m willing entertain questions about the disposition program please respect the fact that we are in highly sensitive negotiations with various buyers.
Some of the deals the buyers have money at risk that’s not so sensitive.
In some of the deals the buyers were under contract and if essentially a free look during the due diligence period and other deals were still in either a first or second round of bidding.
So talking about the size of the disposition and recycling program and the status of it to some degree could comprise on negotiations.
So if we get into sensitive territory please respect the fact that I may say look I can’t answer that question.
Interest has been strong.
We’ve probably received bids from at least 10 groups on a selection of 14 assets.
We also marketed three assets in the Seattle area and two retail assets and an office complex received numerous bids.
The bids came from a combination of private equity folks large private equity loan folks as well as some public companies.
At this point in time I’m pleased to report to you that our current guidance remains $500 million of dispositions for the year to a $1 billion.
We are on track and on target with that.
I feel extremely comfortable with the low end of the range.
We feel very solid at that end of the range.
And that’s not to mean that we’re not going to hit the high end of the range but really to get into great detail about specific dollar amounts at this point in time would really comprise our overall program.
So our guidance remains basically what we gave you three months ago but our execution is really in very good shape.
If you think about it the process of first of all packaging up the tax attributes that needed to be handled to make these properties ready for sale.
And then the process of marketing and going through multiple bids and now to actually be in contract on numbers of assets and actually be hard on assets.
That’s really good progress on a matter of four or five months.
So I am pleased with where we are there and we’re going to accomplish the purposes that we sought to accomplish.
Turning to the development pipeline as Tom noted there is obviously the new supplemental that we have there.
Chicago we will look forward to having a hard-hat tour with those of you that who want to join us in June at NAREE we look forward to the grand opening in August.
We’re extremely proud and pleased.
Retailers are – have very high expectations and we also have very expectations.
This is a one-of-a-kind opportunity.
One of my board member said so how many more of these are we going to do and I said well I don’t think there’re too many other sites right next to one of the busiest airports in the world that you’re able to get this kind of tenant mix on.
So it’s one-of-a-kind but we’re happy to have had the opportunity to get involved to this point and we think it’s going to establish our presence in the outlet industry not as being big in terms of size or quantity by any stretch but certainly being productive on those that we own which is consistent with the strategy that we outlined for you couple of years ago when we said that we are going to move into this arena.
Looking at our Tysons development very pleased to be able to deliver on our prognosis for you that we gave you on our last call that we anticipated signing a second anchor tenant in the office complex we’re pouring I think about a floor a week in that office building I think we’re up to the fourth floor above grade now.
So that’s coming along great.
Leasing activity is very strong there.
Let’s remember that Tysons is a one-of-a-kind property.
So when you look at the DC market overall and you look at the different components of office or residential on a macro level sure they’ve got headwinds but Tysons is a universe to itself.
You look at the combination of the intersection of Tysons One and the Tysons Galleria and put the Metrorail in between the two of them.
Add to that the HOT Lanes that have now been open both to the North and the South on the beltway which has cut the good news for shoppers and employees by half taken a 45 minute commute and reduced it to 15 or 20 minutes and this is just a one-of-a-kind location.
You’ve got almost 3 million feet of Class A retail at one intersection.
I’m pleased to see that the Metrorail is just in the process of awarding in excess of a multi-billion dollar contract to extend the rail from Tysons Corner to Dallas.
So now we’ll have the rail going all the away from Dallas with primary stop at Tysons Corner to Downtown.
We’re seeing synergies between the five elements that we have here on our densification.
The office users for example both Intelsat which by the way just went public it’s for those of you that might want to know more about who that is obviously it’s a household term.
Both Intelsat and the Lloyd’s HR departments have already started talking to our residential f developer Kettler about getting pre-reservations for residential units for their employees.
When you add the number of employees that are going to be there in our office building to the number of employees that are in the immediate trade area then I think 170 000 office workers in the immediate trade area.
It’s a very natural thought that those employees would want to have a live work play pedestrian environment young old and professional has to travel a lot.
They could live without a car.
Why wouldn’t you? It’s a great new urban paradigm in what was originally obviously a suburban environment.
So the residential we anticipate notwithstanding the macro noise that you hear in the market that our residential building is clearly the Class A building in the market.
You don’t have any other buildings in the entire market and certainly looking at Tysons that has the amenity package that we have that has the access to mass transit that we have both by car with the HOT Lanes as well as rail that takes into the airport as well as Downtown.
That has the shopping the dining the entertainment and the choices that you have.
So we’re very bullish and comfortable on the residential component here.
The hotel operator that we have Hyatt Regency they’re extremely excited.
They operate a hotel over at Ruston.
And they look at the plaza that we’re creating which is almost 2 acres compared to the public space that they have at this other project which is 10% of that in size.
And they are so enthused about the opportunities for special events weddings banquets and other events that they can host there.
They see the fact that the plaza is the key glue that ties the office the residential the hotel and the retail together.
We’re seeing synergies in the retail.
Leasing is really beginning to take on a new view with the retailers now taking space that formally was viewed as very good space which is essentially the new entrance area that connects to the plaza.
And they now see that as the 50 yard lines very enthused about that.
Moving to Fashion Outlets of Niagara we have internally green light of that project where over 50% pre-leased in terms of handshakes and commitments.
I’m not going to get into details on how many leases are signed because at this point in time you are not at that point but we’re green lighting it from the viewpoint of moving forward with an anticipation that we open that project in late 2014 early 2015.
We are anticipating at least 10% stabilized return on our investment there.
Other projects that are in our development shadow pipeline that we are obviously very enthused about.
King’s Plaza Kings you will see in the supplemental now is doing $700 of square foot.
Sales were up 9.4% comp sales for the first quarter of this year.
Green Acres sales were up 7% for the first quarter of this year.
So Kings we have had development teams working there almost on a weekly basis and we are very very bullish on what we’re going to be able to accomplish within that center and the timeframes that we anticipate for that are indicated.
The expenditures that we have outlined of – this is a very broad range in the shadow pipeline and that’s why it’s in the shadow pipeline and the hard pipeline is $75 million to $100 million.
We anticipate very good double digit returns there.
We’re looking to make a remerchandising maybe on the food court most likely.
And this does not involve recapturing any anchor space or recycling any big boxes within the center.
This is really essentially doing what we do best which is simply remerchandising and refreshing and repositioning centers.
As you know Brooklyn is on fire.
You can barely go a week without picking up a magazine or newspaper article.
I read in LA just last Sunday was talking about how Brooklyn is now the hippest spot in the U.S.
And this is – we’re very pleased with that.
Green Acres we are pleased to let you know that we closed a couple of weeks ago on the acquisition of 20 acres of contiguous land right off of the Sunrise Highway.
So it’s exactly contiguous to the center.
So the opportunity to buy 20 acres of land for about $20 million exactly contiguous to a center that is doing over $800 million in total sales.
We’re very pleased with that.
And we have – we’re putting together our thoughts with demand sourcing right now.
From retailers we got lots of demand from big boxes as well as anchor tenants that want to either come in or reposition or expand.
I now want to talk briefly about same center NOI growth and our outlook.
First of all I want to say that on the same-store NOI growth that I do want to observe that in the same way that I observed that simply putting at number of sales per square foot was only two dimensional.
And it didn’t add a third dimension of adding the quality of the sales per foot and adding the NOI associated with the properties.
But I think that the – the focus of same center NOI – what we get it that same center NOI is going to be a key driver for our share performance and for anybody’s share performance especially when share prices were getting lofty.
But I do have to remind you that one has to be careful in the operation of the regional shopping center not to be shortsighted in leasing.
If you can chase same center NOI at the expense of long-term value creation.
So we do keep that in mind.
I will take responsibility for the fact that going back to January of 2011 as we’re coming off of 2009 and 2010 that I drew the line on rents.
And I did draw the line on rents across the portfolio.
Frankly in retrospect it may have been a better idea to draw the line on rents only in the highly productive centers and to be a little more relaxed on rents in the Bs and the Cs that we own and to maybe chase occupancy a little bit more than the Bs and the Cs that we own.
But we are very clear on our strategy today.
We had to take a hard line that reestablished the balance of power in negotiations between landlords and the tenants because the tenants had a hay day in 2009 and that had to stop.
Our focus on same center NOI growth is primarily driven by four factors today.
One is to drive our rents in our merchandised mix at our A malls.
Two is to drive occupancy at our B malls.
A third way of driving our same center growth is to recycle out of our B malls and recycle that money into the repositioning of our A malls so that’s a big part of the strategy.
Four is expense controls.
We had some very significant renegotiation of our total facilities contracts in the mid to latter part of last year that are beginning to flow through our properties this year.
So I’m very pleased about that.
But on same center NOI growth if you look at our history over 20 years we’ve always been in the top tier of peers.
I recognized the importance of this measure going forward but I also want to let you know that value creation is more important than same-store NOI growth many times and your brand protection is more important at times.
So there are times that you are better served to take a little bit of less rent in an A center to take a better tenant mix which enhances the brand enhances the sales of the overall center and as you’ve heard rent is a function of sales and if you take care of the sales the rent will take care of themselves.
So we’re very bullish in terms of prospects for things in our NOI growth was focused on it.
If you take a look at the average rents that are in place in our portfolio today March of 2013 versus March of 2012 we are at 4 763 a foot versus 4 587 a foot and occupancies were up 130 or so basis points and we are very focused on this going forward and that’s part of what gave us the confidence to increase our guidance.
We could have likely increased our guidance a little bit more but given the noise and the lumpiness and the uncertainty of the recycling disposition program we felt that we did was prudent.
At this point in time we’d like to open it up and welcome your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will take our first question from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning Craig.
Hi I’m seeing really strong performance in rents and rent recoveries in the first quarter.
And I wonder if there was any concentration of where that lift came from or maybe just some color behind that – those strong numbers.
I mean it really the – it’s across the portfolio Craig.
You’ve seen nice growth in recoveries.
And particularly if you look at recovery percentage it’s up because we are able to hold our expenses in line with last year.
And that combined with top line rental growth really was a big part of the growth in the first quarter.
We cut about what amounts to 1% of same center expense out of our operating expenses which is just beginning to flow through our numbers and those flow equally through every single property.
Okay great.
And I was wondering if you had a sense of where the occupancy might be at Fashion Outlets in Chicago when it opens in August 1st.
We don’t control the tenants opening dates.
That’s always – we don’t control the permitting process the building inspector process all of those things.
Look we are over 90% signed.
Our anticipation is we’re going to open with 90% of the lights on but we don’t control that.
We work with them well and we have expeditors all over the place helping them.
The tenants are very bullish on what they are doing.
And they are doing everything they can to make sure they are open but we don’t control that process.
Okay.
And then just finally the 20 acres next to Green Acres obviously it will be a lot of big box interest.
But is there something better that you can do with that? What we’re evaluating right now is we look the strength of Green Acres is in catering to the masses.
And if the center that does as we mentioned when we bought it over $800 million in total sales.
So that’s a powerhouse.
We’re going to add retailers that bring shoppers.
We’ve already got a very large selection of specialty stores in the mall.
So there is now reason to try and to expand that offering.
But we’re evaluating it right now.
It was no-brainer to buy it.
It had been sitting there forever and when we saw that we had an opportunity to buy go and there is a old theater there.
When we saw the opportunity to buy it you couldn’t have bought a more beautifully positioned piece of land.
There is not even a street in between it.
The driveway that’s in between it is owned by us.
I mean I have never seen where you can buy a property that’s doing $800 million in business and you can buy 20 acres of contiguous land right next door with that kind value.
It’s – it was a no-brainer.
There was lose tons of tenant demand and we’ll see what we do.
There could be an expansion of the mall and part of that land is used for surplus parking which is much cheaper than we would have had to have faced using deck parking we’ll see.
Yes that was a pleasant surprise.
And let’s assume that’s great.
Thanks.
We’re starting to work on buying the land before we even sign the contract to buy the mall.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll take our next question from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
Hello good morning guys.
Good morning Rich.
One of the things we had heard a bit recently is that getting CMBS debt for B-quality malls was getting more difficult than it had been.
Do you guys have any thought obviously some of your buyers for the 14 assets might need CMBS debt.
And I’m curious do you have any thoughts on the CMBS market and specifically with regard to regional malls and maybe the B assets in particular? Sure.
We’re not been answering any B assets on our own.
So we’re not a good proxy for that.
I would point out to you that we’ve placed $820 million – or $925 million of debt on two malls that had JC Penney as an anchor.
And that was Queens and Green Acres all in the last three months but obviously those are not B-malls.
The buyers that are working on deals with us generally are putting between 60% to 70% debt on the properties and it’s I think CMBS in every case the rates that I’m seeing that they’re seeing are pretty attractive.
They are within 50 basis points of what we’ve been borrowing even as they stretch their leverage up to 65% to 70%.
Some of these malls have JC Penney and Sears as two of the three anchors.
All of them have one or the other and some of them have both as part of four.
I’ve not seen any impact whatsoever in terms of the lending world and I’ve heard the noise about that on other calls.
I have not seen the impact now.
It does matter where your JC Penney is located.
So if it’s a JC Penney that’s in a mall that’s doing $220 a foot you’re not going to be able to get a CMBS loan.
Just like if it was a Nordstrom anchored center that was doing $220 a foot you’re not going to be able to get a CMBS loan.
So I mean really the productivity of the center I think is the more relevant fact.
Certainly the lenders are willing to learn.
Rich I’d characterize it as still being very aggressive in the CMBS not two weeks ago with San Tan Village and it was very very very competitive.
And as I said we are not financing any B’s right now but we have been hearing from the brokers as it relates to some of the assets in our disposition program and they still characterize the borrowing environment as very borrower-friendly and that the underwriters in CMBS are being very very aggressive.
That’s a...
The quality of the asset is key all right.
So remember that.
The other point I would make out is that – we would make is that look one of the guys that’s really active in the CMBS market is the same investment bank that just loaned $1.75 billion to JC Penney.
Yes fair enough all right.
Good guys.
Thank you.
Thanks Rich.
And we’ll take our next question from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Hi.
Couple quick ones here.
When we’re looking at the disposition range of $500 million to $1 billion is there a certain number within the range that’s ideal the way to look at it I mean as – is a 1 billion better than 750 million? No not really.
I mean it’s – look it’s opportunistic 500 million could be a great result a 1 billion could be a great result it’s very opportunistic.
We’re not chasing a number we’re just exposing these properties to the market we’re very far along in the process.
But very far along could mean that we’ve got somebody that’s in due diligence and there go hard date could be tomorrow.
So it’s really hard to talk about the process right now.
Other than we’ve had substantial interest and we’re extremely confident about the lower end of the range.
We don’t control whether buyers actually perform we don’t control whether they step up and go hard when their go hard date is.
So we can’t prognosticate what the ultimate number would be.
Got it.
And okay.
And then if we look at the year-over-year occupancy gain that you posted this quarter would that appear a same-store increase or how much of an impact was there from acquisitions and dispositions in there? Mike that was mostly same – same center.
I mean you’ve got all of the detail in the supplement where you not only see sales by assets but also occupancy.
So you can see a relative occupancy levels in some cases actually the acquisitions have a lower occupancy level in our – reported numbers so most of that was same center gain in the quarter.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
And next we’ll go to Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Paul.
On the development schedule just maybe you could provide a little bit color I mean are you – I think you said last quarter that you really have kind of plans for the majority of the top couple of tiers at least of your portfolio and the way you group them and you chose to put the one that you did in the development how should we think kind of – what does that mean for those versus the others when would you kind of what do you characterize being kind of real enough to provide that disclosure and kind of how would that evolve going forward? I would expect that you’ll see the shadow pipeline grow each quarter through the foreseeable future and I would expect that you’ll see properties doing that are in the shadow pipeline move up to the in-process grouping periodically.
I’d expect that if it shows up on the shadow pipeline let’s say the probability of that it’s going to become a reality is extremely high.
We took the attitude that let’s kind of start with a skeletal approach on this first quarterly provision of the supplement and will be adding to it.
One of the debates was that we do have many properties where we have a $10 million or $20 million repositioning that we’re pursuing or $8 million opportunity that’s still creating value and we didn’t want to – we’re still kind of debating and John Perry is helping us to think about how we provide kind of clean disclosure without it being a syllabus of activity.
So you’ll see additions to the shadow pipeline and my guess is every quarter for the foreseeable future.
All right you’re two-for-two on a disclosure side this course.
I look forward to what comes out next quarter as well.
On the We just need the guidance from you on that and then we can try and I’ve given you some.
I will give you more if you like.
On the occupancy I appreciate the detail there and when you actually look at it a lot of that kind of pickup and occupancy.
Your mid tier centers are kind of 20 miles that are up 200 basis points.
Kind of in the context of what you said earlier I mean is that a reflection of a change in strategy.
Some of it maybe kind of driven by these some of these are being marketed or is it just – are you seeing a pickup in mid-tier demand that is kind of noteworthy.
Bobby you want to address that.
Sure.
Paul its Robert Perlmutter.
I would say in general it reflects an improving environment for some of the mid tier centers and I think that improves a couple of ways.
One is the just starting with the supply.
The shrinkage is much lower than it was a couple of years ago where bankruptcies were not really so much higher.
So I think there is some stabilization in performance and I think the other thing we see is the activity with the national retailers a number of national retailers are rolling out formats more targeted towards the mid tier centers people like us.
So many of the retailers have open to bias in this category that a couple of years ago they didn’t have.
So I would say it’s general improvement in the environment and the retailer demand for the mid-tier centers.
Okay great.
And then just lastly on the delay deal where the rents versus your kind of pro forma going in now that you do? It hit our pro forma.
It’s – we’re in very good shape both the two anchor deals we’ve got are right at pro forma.
So our anticipation is that the balance of the lease up – we should easily hit our pro forma or above.
We feel very good about – we feel really good about where we are on the entire project and in all five elements of it.
And I do want to emphasize all five elements of Tysons and the appliance is one of those five elements because that’s the staging area and the connectivity that is going to make this such a unique property and it’s going to feed each of the properties the retail property.
It’s the synergies of having one owner develop this are massive had we sold off the air rights to anyone of the towers the opportunity to cross markets cross brand and plan the traffic between the different elements would have been loss which would have been a shame.
So Alaska and Macerich the Alaska Permanent Fund which is a very thoughtful investor and we planned out from the very beginning and thought about selling off development rights to others then came to the conclusion that we should – we need to build this on our own to protect the golden goose which is the retail but to make sure that it all works together and the thesis that you know that there was synergy and then opportunity to cross market and across brand.
We’re already seeing the reality.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Hi Quentin.
Hi good morning out there.
Just in terms of the – the new development disclosure which is great to have just wanted to try and basically reconcile some numbers if you look at the schedule you’ve got a total of about $179 million which is your CIP or your pro rata capitalized costs but then if you look across that the balance sheet there is a total it’s more or like $430 million.
So there is a roughly $250 million gap between the two.
You just mentioned a couple questions ago that some of it is the smaller type projects but can you maybe just run through how much is the smaller projects and what else is in that spread? Yeah another quick reconciliation it’s not going to take much time here because we don’t have that much.
On page seven of the supplements you’ve got your consolidating balance sheet.
And you’ve got $317 million listed as CIP for wholly owns.
And Chicago is 67 of that on page 30.
We have Estrella Falls 31 in Niagara10.
In addition to that we have numerous things that we got to capture in CIP for GAAP purposes.
There are non-cash items.
Some cases it’s imputed land value which is what we have in Chicago.
In some cases you have to capitalize interest even though you don’t have a construction loan.
That’s a non-cash GAAP entry.
And there is about a $100 million or so of this non-cash allocations in that CIP number.
And then there is about $100 million or so are small projects – probably 20 or so projects in total of makeup that number.
If you look at the joint venture number there it’s 112 million in CIP our pro rata share that’s disclosed in bullet number 3 there on page 7 and that’s made up of $67 million from Tysons Corner which ties to page 30 $4 million from Broadway Plaza which ties to page 30 also.
And then other JVs and the accounting adjustments are about $40 million or so.
That gets you to $112 million.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just secondly can you just talk a little bit about your schedule at RECon in Vegas in a few weeks time.
How it compares to last year and is there any sort of new concepts we should be thinking about? Well I can speak from our experience.
Our schedule is very strong stronger than last year.
We actually extended our hours on Sunday for a full day which previously was a half a day.
So I think the – the lease environment continues to improve.
We talk a lot about new concepts and new concepts coming two of the centers gets a lot of press.
But if you look at our 10 largest tenants they really are equally or more important to us.
And generally our 10 largest tenants are doing very very well that really bodes well for the coming years.
And we will take our next question from Christy McElroy with UBS.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Christy.
Tom maybe I’m being a little too technical or reading too much into this.
But the updated quarterly percentages that you gave for guidance would imply 25% for Q1 which at $0.86 would put you at the upper end of your new range.
Is that what we should take away from that.
Or should we be thinking about the Q1 number sort of excluding any one-time items like the un-depreciated asset sale? The first quarter was $0.86 and a 25%.
Yeah.
It gets you in the range but there is always rounding in these things Christy.
I mean that could – to be accurate and had to taken out three or four digits and that’s really implied.
I could have said 23 to 24 for Q2 and Q3 and 24 to 25 for Q1.
So I wouldn’t read too much into that.
And I especially Okay Jean.
Proceed with the dispositions not controlling the timing of that.
I crunch when I hear Tom give quarterly guidance with all of that activity going on because if the disposition closes one month I mean versus another it can change things.
So I’d look at for this year in particular I’d be looking at the year but obviously Tom has given you his best customer on the guidance on the quarters.
Okay.
And obviously we will revisit at the end of the second quarter when we will have even more information on the disposition program we can true it up then if need be.
And then with regard to other income the last two quarters it’s kind of spike tear.
Wondering if there is anything one time in their and what we should be looking at for sort of our run rate going forward? No it’s part of it is function of we have more wholly owned assets now because we bought up our interest and flat from 25% to 100% obviously we did the same with arrowhead we had at Green Acres and King’s.
So if you go to the consolidated income statement and the supplement you see that if you take other income all the way across to that $19 million for the quarter.
And that is a good run rate we’re going to run on average $19 million to $20 million per quarter in there.
There is a lot of things that go in their advertising Telecom operating machine gift cards sponsorship income and it’s an area this is but I think that’s probably a pretty good run rate.
Got it so previously you had that? That’s right.
And just lastly that on the last quarter you mentioned a $2 million acquisition costs on Green Acre was that an operating expenses? Yeah was in I think we came at a little bit less than that we came in above 15 16.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Christy.
And we’ll take our next question from Josh Patinkin with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi good morning out there.
Niagara Fashion Outlet I’m wondering how much of the customer base there as Canadian driving in from Toronto obviously premium outlet opens in August in Toronto.
And can the greater super regional market support another 600 000 700 000 feet of outlet space? 80% of our customers come from Canada and they come to fashion outlets of Niagara because of the embedded differential in prices.
There is a between 12% and 15% difference in the price structure for multiple reasons.
And we are – our retailers that are leasing space in our 172 000 foot expansion are very confident that that market and that price advantage will remain and they are very bullish in their interest level and the rents that they will pay us for the expansion.
So look at the – obviously it’s going to have an impact on the marketplace but my guess is that it’s going to have more impact on Toronto retail than fashion outlets of Niagara.
And I assume a lot of the merchants you are talking to open up two stores these centers is that fair to say or I guess you wouldn’t know if they are going to be in premium outlet? I can’t comment on their tenant roster because I haven’t really paid attention to it because I don’t really that it’s relevant to what we’re doing.
Okay.
What they are doing is fine and great for them and I’m sure it will be a great tenant roster but I really don’t see the centers being competitive at all with each other.
Okay okay.
On Kings Plaza as you guys acquired it looked like to me that Gap closed their brands at the Center; do you have any insight into their decision? Josh this is Bob Perlmutter.
I think Gap’s decision to close their Gap store was based on underperformance within the center and our ability to take a larger space and bring in more productive tenants at higher rents.
They continue to operate the Old Navy which is pretty productive and has a term left.
So I think that was really a specific tenant that didn’t resonate with the customer.
Okay.
And I’m curious if Green Acres and Kings came as a package deal or could you have bought these two separately and would you wanted to that? Well we spend a lot of time on the last earnings call talking about that question.
So I could tell you that we were offered both properties at the same time and we were actually offered more than both properties at the same time.
There were other properties we were offered but we always wanted to buy these two properties we bought these two properties and we’re thrilled that we bought these two properties.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O’Neill.
Good morning out there.
Hi Alexander.
Hey.
And yeah it is amazing you have 20 acres just for sale next to Green Acres and it wasn’t thought.
Two questions my two questions.
The first question is Art after the last quarter you did your listening tour.
And apart from releasing the day before you know at probably at 4 PM which is great what was the feedback that most surprised you? I don’t remember.
I’m not being cute with you here honestly.
Okay.
I think I have to answer that.
The conclusion that I came to was that we can do a better job telling our story and that’s on all levels.
Disclosure is just one of them.
We have a great story.
And I came to the conclusion that you know that we could do a better job telling our story and telling in – and a better job telling a story part of its disclosure.
The part of it is also telling the story to more than the normal universe of investors than we have told in the past.
So going forward we’re going to be seeking to inroads into investment groups that currently are not in our shareholder base and may not even be in the REIT shareholder base.
I guess the – look whether it’s surprising or otherwise.
The biggest takeaway I have with that – doing a great job running your business is not enough.
That you have to also do a great job telling the story that you’re doing a great job running your business.
I know we do a great job running our business and I guess I may have slipped into a belief that that was enough that everybody would notice but I did come with a conclusion that we could do a better job telling this story disclosure just part of that.
Okay.
And then Tom on the 6.2% growth in sales.
I’m assuming that’s on a total portfolio.
Do you’ve the number for what it would be on a comp pool so we can see the impact of the acquisitions versus what the same store pool prove in that – in sales? Alexander your assumption is right that its total portfolio compared to the portfolio a year ago.
And although I don’t have that you’ve got the detail there so you could have a pretty good idea of what the new assets Green Acres and Kings may have done to that number but they are close.
It’s not going to move too much on a same set of basis but I don’t have that.
Yeah.
Green Acres was right at the average and Kings was a little bit above the average but when you look at the overall pool if you’re 200 basis points above the average it doesn’t move to that much.
Right.
And we had a disposition last year that was above our average just going the other way.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And we will take our next question from Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Good morning.
Good morning Tayo.
How are you guys? First of all congrats on a great quarter.
Just a quick question on the tenant base.
We’re talking very positively about what’s going on with the tenant base but just kind of curious are there any retail categories where there are issues that you’re worried about or any kind of tenants on watch list that you are worried about? We definitely have tenants that are watched closely and – in all categories both the specialty stores as well as the big boxes.
And some of those tenants that were on that list a couple of years ago many of them were junior tenants that have actually rebounded fairly strongly.
In past quarters people like Best Buy and others have been getting a lot of press.
So many of them have rebounded I would say that in general we’re finding the watch list to be stable or declining.
We see the overall health of the retailers being better.
In particular we see the big boxes moving more into the mall environment and particularly in some of the B centers.
That’s been a big improvement people like Ulta and TJ Maxx and others are now looking at the mall as an expansion of their store base.
So in general it’s overall improving the environment.
It doesn’t mean that there aren’t isolated incidents.
Most of them are isolated companies as opposed to categories.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
I think we have time for a couple of more questions.
Operator? We will take our next question from Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Great thank you.
And thanks again for the new disclosures on the occupancy cost ratios.
Looking at those numbers your group two of sellers to – so the top 11 to 20 has an occupancy cost ratio that’s meaningfully lower than group one and somewhat lowered and in some of the subsequent groups.
And is there anything you can do in particular in some of those centers to push rent so is that related to the mix including the fashion outlets being part of the group that’s depressing the occupancy cost ratio? I mean I would tell you there is a couple of items that are probably more mix related than drawing any general conclusions you mentioned the outlet center Broadway Plaza is obviously a center that is going to potentially be substantially redeveloped.
So right now it’s got a lower cost of occupancies as we keep tenants short-term.
The other factor is you have a number of open air centers there which generally have lower than expected operating expense cost than some of the enclosed centers.
So I would say that it’s more just a nuance of the mix and the timing that some of those centers are in their life cycle as opposed to any conclusions.
There is the one point that I would make is that – hopefully I’m reading my – our own charts correctly.
If I’m ready them correctly that our top 10 centers do $831 a foot and that the next group does $623 a foot.
There is a totally different dynamic at a center that does a $1 000 a foot than a center that does $650 a foot.
You have tenants at places like Queen Center Tysons Corner and even Kings Plaza now where their occupancy costs might be 30% of sales at times and you go to try and replace them and they can’t leave because they have to be in the center to protect their own brand.
Likewise when you’re offering space that happens to be available in the center like that.
It’s not all lot of the question to set the rent at levels where the tenant believes they are paying 15% to 20% of their sales because at those sales levels they can make money at that kind of occupancy costs.
So I would totally expect the most productive centers to have the highest rent as a percentage of sales.
Queen’s we’ve been running Queen’s for 18 years at roughly 20% cost of occupancy as a percentage of sales.
Now what happens is the good news is we’ve increased the square footage from 130 000 feet to 430 000 feet and we will increase the sales from $600 a foot to $1 000 a foot and therefore the income has gone up more than 600%.
So it is also an actual dynamic of high productivity centers.
And as Bob said in the next grouping open air centers generally are going to have lower cost of occupancies and we also have centers in that second group that are awaiting to come into the – to be redeveloped.
So many times just renewing leases on the short-term basis and the rents are staying basically at the same levels that they’ve been.
So Broadway Plaza even those it’s a high productive center we’re not driving rents there because we’re keeping the leases short because the long-term plan is to demolish the majority of the center.
Okay.
So if you could renew all your leases in today’s market rates what do you think would be occupancy cost ratio in the first grouping of centers versus some of the lower groupings? You mean theoretically if you said....
Theoretically...
Well as Art mentioned one of the dynamics were seen at the most productive centers the Queens Center and the Tysons Corner so the world is.
Historically we’ve always looked at an opportunity to take a larger space at lower rent and make it smaller spaces at higher rent.
We’re actually seeing the opposite happen at some of these centers where tenants are paying premiums for multilevel flagship stores and tenants step-up to an occupancy cost that is partly based on their P&amp;L and party based on the importance of the store within their store program and at these iconic center.
So we’re reaching 20% and higher at the top part of the portfolio and anywhere from the mid to high teens at the balance of the top tier.
Look if I had to take a stab at that answer.
I would tell you that our top 10 centers if you started with a pallet that had the land at they’re located on the department stores that are in-place and the small shops sitting there waiting for us to come in and lease them with complete flexibility you’d have occupancy cost of 20% at least on those top 10 centers which is actually the situation that we’re creating at Broadway Plaza.
We’re running a little bit short on time and we do – I think we have one more question Cedrik do you have anything else that you’d like to cover right now? No thanks very much for the answers.
Thanks Cedrik.
And we have time for one more question and that will be from Ben Yang of Evercore Partners.
Hi good morning thanks.
Art you’d mentioned feeling extremely comfortable that you will sell at least $0.5 billion on the disposition program which is probably only 3 or 4 of the 17 malls that you’re actively marketing.
And – I know you kind of threw everything else there but are buyers actually taking a look all 17 malls or is it in the concentrated at the higher end of that – of the malls that you’re trying to sell? At the end of the day we will probably sell six or seven properties out of the 17 that were offered.
And that’s about the best I can give you in the way of an answer right now.
That doesn’t mean there are not people asking about others but to get more specific could jeopardize some conversations.
There could be some people looking at all of them.
I really – I don’t want to get into any more detail on the numbers.
Remember I’ve said there could be some sensitive questions that gets into the sensitive area but – I think the relevant issue for our balance sheet is how many dollars are we are going to recycle.
And I feel very comfortable at the low range – end of the range that we are going to recycle and range $500 million of new cash to redeploy.
Okay fair enough.
So you think 6 to 7 malls this year – maybe some interest in some of the other malls that’s higher end up selling? Do you think you’re kind of continue this program into next year to see to try to sell more assets basically at that point or is this going to be a once you kind of sell those 6 or 7 initially? We advertised that as a limited time offer and that’s what it is at this point in time.
It’s a one-time limited time offer and then we will see where we go from here.
I’ve gotten frankly as a result of sitting in management committee meetings with buyers and having a renewed focus on some of these assets.
Frankly I’ve – I see upside in them.
That is there.
So – look it’s a one-time limited time offer and I would not at all be surprised that this is it for now.
And but it also – I wouldn’t be surprised if we continue to prune.
We will see where we go.
I want to thank you all for joining us and sorry for running over a little bit but we did want to take Ben’s question.
And we look forward to talking to you soon.
We look forward to seeing those of you that are going to join us on the hard-hat tour in Chicago in a month or so and seeing in person there at Navy.
So thank you very much.
This does conclude today’s presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to The Macerich Company second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded and I would now like to turn the call over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and thank you everyone for joining us today on our second quarter 2013 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risk associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company’s press release and SEC filings.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the Investor Section of the company’s website at <a href="http://www.macerich.com" rel="nofollow">www.macerich.com</a>.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman; Ed Coppola President; Tom O’Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Robert Perlmutter Executive Vice President Leasing.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Today we’re going to keep our introductory comments brief to allow plenty of time for Q&amp;A.
That being said we will be limiting this call to one hour.
If we run out of time and you still have questions please do not hesitate to call me or Art John Perry or Jean Wood.
It was another great quarter.
We executed on our plan to dispose of non-core assets.
We continue to strengthen our balance sheet and we had a very strong operating performance during the quarter.
That combined with the blockbuster grand opening of Fashion Outlets of Chicago last week it has been a very productive 90 days since our last earnings call.
Looking at the operating metrics we had good leasing volume and spreads.
We signed 262 000 square feet of leases during the quarter with a positive re-leasing spread of just over 14%.
We had very strong occupancy at 93.8%.
That was up 110 basis points compared to June 30 of last year.
FFO for the quarter adjusted FFO was up 18% to $0.87 per share.
That compared to $0.74 a share a year ago.
Some of the things that impacted that growth were same center NOI which increased 4.6% compared to the second quarter of last year.
That statistic does not include straight lining or rent lease termination revenue or SFAS 141 revenue.
This strong increase was driven by increased occupancy positive re-leasing spreads in 2012 that are now rolling through 2013 revenues and CPI increases on leases.
This is the strongest increase we’ve seen since before the recession.
It’s obviously well above our previous guidance range of 2.75% to 3.25% and as indicated in our earnings release this morning we are raising our guidance and an important part of that is an upward revision of same center NOI guidance to 3.75% to 4.25% for the year.
We had gain on land sales during the quarter of $2.2 million.
Those were included in our previously issued guidance.
There’s also significant interest savings during the quarter as our average interest rate went down to 4.3% compared to 4.7% the second quarter of 2012.
There’s another strong quarter in terms of balance sheet improvement.
Our debt to market cap dropped to 41%.
Our floating rate debt has been significantly reduced.
Today it stands at 18% of total debt compared to 31% of total debt at June 30 2012.
Our average debt maturity has increased to 5.6 years.
That compared to 3.9 years at June 30th of ‘12.
Concurrent with our inclusion in the S&amp;P 500 Index this past quarter we sold 2.5 million shares of common equity at an average share price of $70.42 per share.
This stock was sold under our ATM program.
The net proceeds were $171 million that were used to pay down debt.
Yesterday we committed to an $850 million life company refinancing of a debt on Tysons Corner super regional mall.
This is a 10 year fixed rate loan 4.1% interest rate.
It will mature in January of 2024 and that pays off a loan that was approximately $300 million and had a GAAP interest rate of 4.78 and an actual coupon up in the mid-5s.
The company owns 50% of Tysons and we’ll see roughly $275 million of excess loan proceeds and those proceeds we’ll use to further reduce debt primarily floating rate debt.
Also effective today we closed on an extension in rate reduction on our $1.5 billion unsecured line of credit.
The new credit facility has an August 2018 maturity date so we stretched that maturity out two years from the prior facility all in a five-year term and the interest rate also was reduced.
Our current leverage level it was reduced to 1.5% over LIBOR and its down from the old facility which was 2% of the LIBOR.
We can expand this $1.5 billion facility to $2 billion at our election.
Looking now at FFO guidance we gave new guidance in the press release and the range was increased $0.03 to $3.38 to $3.48.
Included in that guidance change was the assumption of $530 million of assets that we’ve actually sold year-to-date.
Art will be discussing the asset sales in more detail in a few moments.
As I mentioned the same center NOI growth assumption has increased 100 basis points to a range of 3.75% to 4.25%.
We are also cutting our estimated lease termination revenue.
Initially we had $7 million in our guidance we are cutting that down to $3 million based on what we’ve seen to date and what we expect for the remainder of the year.
So there’s a $4 million reduction there.
This guidance factors in the May ATM equity issuance which was not in our previous guidance.
Obviously there’s a dilutive effect there.
If you look at the dilutive impact of the asset sales and the ATM on 2013 it’s about $0.11 a share.
That’s very close to the range we have when we gave original guidance on the dispositions of potential dilution of $0.07 to $0.14.
So that $0.11 of dilution has been factored into the new guidance range.
At this point I’m going to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom.
Second quarter was a quarter of many terrific events and openings for us.
Probably the most significant event that occurred for us in the second quarter is one that really hasn’t captured that much attention but is really a seminal moment in the history of Macerich and that was our inclusion in the midpoint of the second quarter into the S&amp;P 500.
This is of particular note because Macerich was the first REIT to be added to the S&amp;P 500 since the dark days of March of 2009.
We are particularly gratified and pleased to be included into the S&amp;P 500.
The days of March of 2009 led us to the conclusion that we wanted to pursue a strategy of owning fortress assets and we wanted to create a fortress balance sheet.
Over the years the last four years you’ve noted the great strides that we have made on our balance sheet and on the fortress asset side of things we’ve improved our existing assets and we’ve pruned out some of the assets that are not fortress assets or completely core.
So we are extremely pleased with the progress that we made over the past four years which really culminated in my mind with our inclusion in the S&amp;P 500 in the mid-point of May of this year.
I’m going to give a little bit of color on the dispositions that we have completed for the year.
You’ll remember in February when we initially gave guidance this year that we indicated that we were putting a number of assets on the market.
That we were agnostic as to timing and price and that we didn’t expect to sell all of the assets that were being exposed to the market.
In our May conference call we guided to the number of assets that we felt that we would sell and we said what we think we are going to sell six or seven assets and were guiding you towards the low point of the $500 million to $1 billion of total disposition proceeds.
In fact we have sold six assets five retail assets and one office asset.
The assets that were sold and the dates are that the Redmond Town Center office project was sold May 29 to a private equity buyer for a gross price of about $185 million.
That was in a joint venture with Cadillac Fairview; May 31 we sold Green Tree Mall for just over $80 million to a private equity buyer; June 4 we sold Billings Rimrock Mall and Northridge Mall in Salinas for just approximately $230 million to a private equity buyer.
June 12 those were wholly owned assets Rimrock Northridge and Green Tree.
June 12 we sold Kitsap Mall which was in a joint venture.
It was in the greater Silverdale marketplace for just under $130 million and then just this week we closed on the Redmond Town Center retail disposition for approximately $130 million August 1 also in a joint venture.
Our pro rata share of the disposition proceeds was approximately $530 million.
There was debt that encumbered these assets; our pro rata share of about $60 million with a net new cash that we raised from the real estate disposition was approximately $470 million.
You’ll remember in our initial guidance we said we’d sell between $500 million and $1 billion and our assumption was that there would be the assets that would be sold would have about 33% property debt on them so the opportunity was there to raise approximately $650 million of new equity.
Shortly after our earnings call on May 2 of this year three days later in fact we were notified that we were being included in the S&amp;P 500.
We sat back and we looked at the possibility of using our ATM as part of the inclusion trade and came to the conclusion that our best strategy to completely retool our balance sheet for the year with complete certainty was to close the deals that we had under a real estate contract and to raise $170 million of common equity through the use of the ATM as part of the inclusion trade.
That got us to net new cash that was raised for the year of about $640 million which if you look at it would have achieved the high end of the objective that we announced in February in terms of the amount of cash that we wanted to raise.
As to dispositions going forward for the balance of the year we are continuing to have some conversations with some folks on some assets but we are in a position to state that we’ve achieved our objectives for the year and that we’ll be very selective in terms of further dispositions.
We are going to continue our policy of pursuing a fortress asset and a fortress balance sheet portfolio and as part of that; dispositions are a key component of our strategy.
So those conversations will continue over the next couple of years.
There’s nothing in particular of any meaning that’s under contract at this point in time but not to say that there won’t be further disposition later in the year but given that there’s nothing under contract at this point in time other than a very small asset.
It would be imprudent to go ahead and project any further dispositions into our guidance numbers for the balance of the year.
Turning now to development.
Obviously the big story post end of the quarter for us was the grand opening in the Fashion Outlets of Chicago.
Many of you toured the asset with us in early June and we can tell you that the grand opening was beyond the expectations of all of our retailers and certainly in line with our very high expectations.
We had great customer traffic counts so we estimate that we had in excess of 60 000 people per day in the property from Thursday August 1 and that held steady all the way through Sunday August 4.
So we had an extremely strong four-day grand opening from Thursday to Sunday.
It’s unusual to see grand opening sales on a Sunday exceed the actual grand opening of three days prior but many of our retailers in fact told us that their Saturday and Sunday sales were even higher than their grand opening sales.
Retailers pretty much across the board told us they were several hundred data percentage points 200% 300% 400% above business plan.
The vast majority of our retailers told us that the grand opening at Fashion Outlets of Chicago was either the best ever grand opening or in the top two or three that they had ever opened.
So we’re extremely pleased with the reception.
It’s in line with our expectations.
The challenge for the retailers at this point in time is that sales were so strong now it’s a simple logistics of replenishment and even increasing their own expectations.
So we are thrilled with the grand opening of FOC and we look forward to reporting the results on that as we get facts and figures on sales during the balance of this year.
Turning briefly to the balance of the development pipeline Tysons densification proceeds on time and on budget.
Leasing of the office building is extremely active.
We’ve got a number of users that we are talking to right now.
So our goal our internal goal of being 80% to 85% leased by the end of this year we see that as being completely attainable.
Also of interesting note if you think about it is to take a look at the funding of the Tysons development.
With the refinance that was announced yesterday we are pulling approximately $275 million of excess refinancing proceeds out of the retail project.
So that repatriates all of the capital that we spent to-date on the densification of Tysons Corner and pre-funds all of the future expenditures that will be spent over the next 16 to 18 months.
Our balance sheet is in terrific shape and at this point in time we are thrilled with our progress with the leasing results the operating results the improvement in same center NOI and would like to open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take our first question from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Hey Craig.
Hey good afternoon.
The sales productivity year-over-year number of 6.2% does that include the changes in your portfolio as well as the gains of the previously existing centers? Yes it does Craig.
It excludes the dispositions that have happened subsequent to June 30 2012.
So that would exclude the recent sales that happened in May and June as well as those that happened in the second half of last year.
And your sense if you were to break that out between the changes to your portfolio versus the pre-existing gains how that might break out? Remember there’s a pretty high productivity joint venture that was disposed of in the third quarter of last year.
So on the same center basis the increase would have been more than the 6% we’ve reflected there.
Okay.
And looking at the two centers you brought in the New York area Green Acres and Kings Plaza it looks like of the two that Kings Plaza’s going to start first? In terms of the re-merchandising? Yes I’m sorry yes.
Both centers are in very active conversations negotiations.
Right now we are focused but there’s been a tremendous amount of leasing activity at both centers and Bobby do you want to comment on some of the leasing activity? As we get into the major expenditures we have not paid the dollar amount or the timing on either one of those yet because those involve anchor negotiations.
But the re-merchandising efforts have been very significant at both centers and our re-merchandising and redevelopment plans are crystallizing.
We’re not quite ready to be more specific on the dollar spend or the exact timing but they certainly are accelerating in terms of the timing.
Bobby you want to answer? Craig this is Bob Perlmutter.
Just to respond to a couple of comments.
We obviously had a strong platform in these markets which we were able to expand which allowed us to generate some pretty good leasing activity at both centers pretty much off the bat.
So the development the merchandising is well started and we are very pleased with the reception in terms of not only the economics but the quality of the tenants we were able to bring in and the development plans while not as immediate are making strong progress and will really allow us to take both centers and position them at the next level which we think the markets can support.
Great thank you.
Thanks.
We’ll take our next question from Christy McElroy with UBS.
Hi good morning everyone.
Tom just regarding the Tysons REFI I think you’ve been working on that a couple months now.
Did you ultimately end up going with life insurance or CMBS lenders? I know Tysons would be treated a little bit differently than your sort of average mall mortgage but can you give us a little bit of color on how the market changed over the time period that you were working on the financing and how competitive are portfolio lenders versus CMBS today.
Right.
No you’re right Christie.
At the time we exposed that to the market was really in early June where there’s a tremendous amount of volatility in the interest rate markets.
CMBS market was in a bit of flux.
But the life companies were extremely competitive and this is going to be a combination of three top life companies that we’ve done a lot of business with and they came in and they were extremely competitive and it was their chance to grab a great piece of business.
So we think we got excellent execution from some of our relationship lenders on this and that’s the direction we are going.
Okay.
Having just completed Chicago and you’re in the process of leasing the Niagara expansion but you are sort of still first and foremost a regional mall landlord can you give us a somewhat unbiased sense for how retailers are viewing outlet store growth versus full price today? What you think that means for factory outlet construction over the next five years and what do you think your next major outlet project will be? Sure Christie I’ll comment on that.
Look it remains consistent but it’s simply one of the three major distribution channels that they have.
They have full price they have off price which is usually outlet and then they have e-commerce and they vary in terms of their percentages but they tend to be say 60% 65% full price 20 % 25% of the mall price and 10% to 15% dot com.
Obviously there are many more off-price opportunities to build in the United States than there are full price opportunities.
So if you look at new developments that they’re going into the majority of new developments are going into are half-price.
Our next major development is the expansion of Fashion Outlets of Niagara.
It’s a proven asset.
The amount of GLA that we are adding there is close to 150 000 square feet as well as re-merchandising the mall.
It can amount to almost building a major new outlet property at a proven location so that’s our focus right now.
Beyond that we have really nothing else to announce on that front.
We’re pleased to be in the space.
Look as we’ve indicated previously we see ourselves owning on one or two hands most number of outlet centers over the next five even eight 10 years.
So it’s part of the retailer’s strategy.
It’s part of our strategy the difference being we are definitely very selective.
We obviously cannot compete in terms of size or scale.
We have to compete in terms of quality but the retailers that have joined us at FOC are with us at FON Niagara and are going to be coming to Niagara.
They’re thrilled about the opportunities at each and it just fits within their overall distribution strategies.
Okay then just one last quick question on the dispositions.
Thanks for the breakout on the timing and the amounts.
I think you mentioned the cap rate on the five assets in Q2 averaged 7.5%.
Can you disclose the cap rate on the Redmond retail? No.
I’m not going to disclose out of respect for the buyers even though they are all private entities.
We’re not going to get into the disclosures on cap rates by property.
At the beginning of the year we indicated that we were agnostic on price but we were very focused on timing and certainty on execution and that was really our focus.
It was timing and certainty of execution.
We were not after the last penny.
When we found the right buyer we moved forward.
The blended composite cap rate is a little bit better than 7.5; it’s closer to say 7.25 but that’s brought down because of an even lower cap rate than that on the office component at Redmond Town Center.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Hey Quentin.
Hey good morning.
Just in terms of the same store NOI which got you back up to 4.6% this quarter I know that you had some drag from some of the redevelopment properties.
Could you maybe just talk about the guidance number for this year and how much drag there is on same store NOI from some of the redevelopments you’re preparing yourself for? That would primarily be North Bridge in Chicago and Broadway Plaza.
Those are both still in the same center number and there’s probably negative impact of roughly 25 basis points on those.
And on our last call I was pretty specific on this one just to remind you.
On Tysons Corner and at Queens in particular and even at Kings Plaza and Green Acres when you’re re-merchandising and you’re getting extremely high rents and even at Santa Monica Place now that we’re re-merchandizing that the frictional vacancy number could be quite significant.
We don’t pull those out and call them redevelopment centers.
So I had indicated that I think in our last earnings call that the impact could be as much as 50 to 75 basis points when you add it all up.
We haven’t sat down and added them all up because we’re not pulling them out.
If we pulled them out and throw them into a redevelopment category we will become extremely in center.
I’m not sure that we’re that different than others in this regard but it’s extremely apparent to us than when looking at the numbers and we have such a high percentage of our income coming from extremely high quality centers and where we are constantly re-merchandising these centers; the re-merchandising efforts at Tysons are extremely significant the re-merchandising efforts at Queens.
I’ll give an example at Queens where one 10 000-foot tenant could cause a $3 million swing in income for the year in terms of the frictional vacancy but it’s part of raising the income from that state to 50%.
But does it hit the same center NOI? Yes significantly.
But look we’re all in the same boat on that.
Many things factor into that number but those are quality NAV issues and that’s where I made the remark on our last call that I believe the same center NOI can be myopic and two dimensional and forget about and ignore the NAV accretion that comes from re-merchandising a Kings Plaza or at Green Acres but time proves it all.
Art its Michael Bilerman speaking.
Just a question just on I guess future potential asset sales and I recognize you sort of hit the high end of your equity target having raised the comment with the sales that you completed that were more low leveraged but you did expose the market to upwards of $1.5 billion of potential assets.
How do you sort of look at the assets that you’ve now kept? Was it the market pricing that wasn’t there? How do you sort of think about putting capital into those assets getting employees driven about those assets that they were on a sale list and are now not? Michael thanks for the question.
It’s actually been a good process.
Our asset management leasing and finance teams put a tremendous amount of work into the preparation of the books and the offerings that we’re in on some of these assets.
Frankly it caused the senior management to have a renewed focus on the assets just as part of the market as part of giving an overview of a number of assets to perspective buyers.
We sat there and talked about assets in great detail with outsiders that we frankly don’t spend that kind of time talking about internally a lot of the time.
So if anything I would say that the assets that are not being sold have a renewed focus and a renewed energy.
It’s frankly gotten us a little bit re-acquainted with the assets because it is easy to have your focus be primarily on the top 10 or 15 or 20 assets where the vast majority of your income is coming from.
Do we want to be in that business of owning some of our bottom tiered assets forever? No.
Do we think that we can make the ones that we’ve retained better? Yes.
Is there a strong probability that we’ll continue to dispose of assets including the ones that were marketed that did not sell at this point in time? Yes.
Look from the buyer’s perspective they took the low-hanging fruit for them.
They cherry-picked to some degree and we were okay with that because we were after certainty of execution and we didn’t dislike any of the assets that we put out there and we are happy to own the ones that we retained and I think that we’ll actually have better performance on those assets as a result of going through the process.
I also think that there will be continued dispositions of not only assets that were exposed to the market but possibly some others but that’s part of the grand strategy of focusing our efforts on fewer assets but bigger assets and pruning the portfolio over a period of time.
We completely retooled our balance sheet to levels that existed before the $1.7 billion of acquisitions that we had last year.
Our development pipeline is completely self-funded FOC is open Tysons is even pre-funded with this refinance and the future development pipeline that’s sitting out there which is quite significant we have essentially a completely untapped new five-year line of credit available to us to fund that.
But internally my long-term and our long-term goals would be to fund that development pipeline through continued pruning of some of our non-core assets and we intend to do that and the market is still there to do that.
Did anything fall out I guess in sort of everything that happened in late May or June that you were sort of working on that got materially re-priced for those assets.
Just trying to get some color on the marketplace.
There was one contract that coming right up on the go-hard date or the end of the due diligence date the buyer asked for price adjustments and we terminated the contract and that happened in late April.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Just thinking about the expanding strategy you talked about in the past Art since Fiesta Mall is doing special servicing.
It’s one of the malls I think had been targeted for that strategy.
What does it tell us about how deep and wide you can go in terms of the Hispanic focus strategy and what’s happened in general to the malls where you’ve implemented the strategy? There is really no message there other than we probably should not have – we tried to put it into the marketing program that is targeted that we call the Vanguardia and we didn’t give a lot of traction because as we looked at the trade area demographics we didn’t have a percentage-wise or population-wise the concentration of Hispanic population in the Fiesta trade area immediately.
On top of that you’ve got a tremendous amount of retail in the southeastern part of the Phoenix marketplace.
So to me it was no message other than maybe we shouldn’t have even included it in our Vanguardia marketing efforts.
When you look at the other properties that are in that program they’ve been achieving same center NOI growth that is in the 5% to 6% neighborhood over the past three years since we really initiated the program.
So we’re pleased with the progress on the pure-plays that we’ve got in there which are really Panorama Mall Desert Sky Pacific View and we’ve had good success there and it’s really just more of a marketing approach.
For me there’s no message on Fiesta.
Okay.
In regards to Fashion Outlets of Chicago I think in the past you had talked about roughly $900 per square foot as being a target once the property is stabilized.
Is that still the prospects for the asset or do you think it’s changed given what you’ve observed with the grand opening? Honestly I hope I never put out a number like that.
Somebody may have made reference somewhere along the line that a retailer generally would have to have expectations that would be in the $500 a foot to $1 000 a foot to pay the rent that they pay but I don’t remember ever putting out any numbers along those lines.
The numbers are going to speak for themselves.
Look when you’ve got retailers that are telling you that the vast majority of them – we had people tell us that in the first four hours on the grand opening day they achieved their entire objective for the four day grand opening weekend.
A tremendous number of retailers told us that it was either their best ever or their second best ever opening ever.
So we put that into the context of the outlet industry put it into the context of where it’s located put it into the context of what you see when you walk the center yesterday Monday at 4:30 we still had 60 people in line to get into a Tory Burch store.
You had products; stores were locked because they had too many people inside with the line outside.
All expectations are that it’s going to be great but until the numbers come through let’s let the numbers speak for themselves.
Okay I might have misremembered that.
And then just finally in terms of when I look at your community and power center bucket of assets if you were to think three to five years out from now how many of the 10 properties that are listed here do you expect to have still under ownership? None.
Good.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Hi hey everyone.
Just want to go back to the disposition conversation just a little bit.
In terms of the ones that didn’t sell I know price wasn’t your main driving focus there but in terms of just overall demand for the ones that didn’t sell as well as the price indications you were receiving how did that compare to your expectations going into the process? I don’t want to be cute with you but when I said I was agnostic I was truly agnostic.
We had expectations that we could achieve dispositions in the $500 million to $1 billion range in the mid-7’s we did.
There are continued conversations that are going on and we’ll see what happens.
We were execution focused not price focused.
Look at the end of the day we disposed of assets that were maybe 4% of our NOI.
So negotiating for the last 1% in price was not what it was all about.
Having certainty of execution and getting it behind us closing deals within five months of the time that you go out with an offering memorandum it’s really an incredible achievement given the process of getting the OM out there and the property tours due diligence periods estoppel periods I mean that’s really a very short time if you look at the marketing of the major properties that have historically taken some significant time to sell.
So we’ve achieved our goal which means we achieved our objective.
On the other hand we do continue to have interest from folks and we will continue to have one-off conversations with folks and anything that happens from this point forward will be incremental but you shouldn’t have it in any of your numbers.
We’ve got plenty of room in our numbers and our guidance ranges that if anything happened in the way of dispositions it shouldn’t affect our guidance numbers in terms of our range.
And as part of our long-term goal we remain committed to rotating out of the bottom 25% or so of our portfolio and reinvesting that money into the top 25% of our portfolio.
Okay thanks.
I was just trying to get a sense of sort of the broader demand for that group five type of asset but that’s fine.
Just maybe going to the sales trends in the portfolio.
Can you provide some color on sort of geographic and sales categories that showed some strength? Going back to your other question in addition to the people that actually bought deals which I think we had three buyers there were another eight or 10 groups that put in offers so there was plenty of people out there.
But again we achieved our objective.
In terms of regional sales activity Bob do you want to comment on that? Year-to-date our strongest regions are the East Coast and Arizona.
Okay.
And any color on sales categories that stood out for you in the quarter? Categories that have done the best include home furnishings jewelers athletic footwear and apparel and then we obviously see certain brands like Michael Kors and Lululemon continue to have very strong increases.
Okay thank you.
Obviously Apple has to...
Right the trend for Apple was down in the second quarter but obviously they are still a very productive and very important tenant for all the centers.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
We’ll go next to Samit Parikh with ISI.
Good morning.
I noticed in the quarter your tenant recovery ratio was up pretty significantly from last quarter and up pretty significantly year-over-year.
I guess my question is is that something timing related or is it really just a product of a stronger portfolio today? Well it’s a combination.
To some extent you get some timing differences between the first and second quarter but I think in general it’s as a result of the quality.
You keep in mind that we also have tenant recoveries that are based on CPI increases that typically come into place.
It’s no longer a triple net environment.
In most cases about two-thirds of our leases have fixed CAM.
So to the extent we can control our costs which we are doing an excellent job of this year we also see some benefit on the recovery rate there but it’s a combination.
Is it safe to say that we should see that benefit for the remainder of the year? You will.
You may not see it at the same level.
I mean there can be some difference timing differences on when the expenses flow through and so in an environment that’s not a triple net environment you’re going to see the recovery rate fluctuate a little bit more than you would in the triple net environment.
Okay.
How much temp space do you have right now? Well included in the occupancy there’s about 6% is tenants that we consider to be greater than six months but less than – they are up to a year six months to a year is what we consider temporary.
If the space is less than six months we don’t include it in our occupancy status.
Okay that’s helpful and then I guess last question Art what sort of level of caution do you think that you are building into your guidance for the holiday season this year? It seems to us based on what you’ve done in the first half of the year and even considering some of the dilutive activity and given that sort of the Chicago outlet’s NOI will be coming on for the rest of the year that there is some level of being conservative there.
So would be great if you could comment a little bit on that.
Well I mean there’s always a certain amount of guesswork particularly in the categories of tenant recoveries and percentage rent.
We’ve taken a hard look at recoveries we probably have visibility that goes out 90 to 120 days and that’s why we cut our guidance there.
So I think you have to keep in mind that that’s part of our guidance number.
It was a reduction of about $0.03 a share for a more cautious view of tenant recoveries.
In terms of percentage rent it’s hard to predict what the tenants are going to do in the fourth quarter.
Most of the percentage rent comes through in the fourth quarter.
We give it our best estimate but you don’t truly know until you’ve made your way through that quarter.
So that’s why there’s a range in there at $0.10 because there are some things that are more an estimate than a certainty.
You do have projected relatively very low bad debt numbers.
We in terms of caution it’s really the reverse of that given our visibility into the future potential termination pipeline.
We’ve reduced dramatically our original numbers that we had internally for termination income which we normally get termination income when a tenant goes away and they still have credit.
So that actually goes the opposite direction.
Look we are trying to keep the noise of having great same center NOI growth coupled with the noise that comes from the dilution of dispositions to a minimum.
So that drove us to really wanting certainty of execution on the disposition.
It does I will tell you give us especially as we raised guidance last quarter and we raised guidance this quarter it probably leaves us a little bit conservative because if for some reason there are dispositions that do occur between now and the end of the year that obviously would be dilutive we wouldn’t want to be in a position to be busting our guidance range as a result of that.
So if there is any caution or conservatism that’s built into the numbers it’s not operational; it’s probably more on the disposition side.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi thanks.
Jordan Sadler’s on with me as well.
I just had a question.
Going back to the tenant sales I was just wondering if you can share with us what sales growth was in the quarter.
So its just comparable tenant sales in the quarter not on a rolling 12 month basis.
We don’t typically break it out by quarter.
I mean I think to get a sales trend we typically feel you need 12 months there.
So historically that’s what we’ve reflected is the trailing 12 months.
Okay.
A question for Bob it sounded like recently while there’s a lot of discussion about retailers down-sizing sort of broadly that you were seeing some demand from larger retailers looking for bigger boxes so Forever 21’s of the world and a few others.
I was just wondering is that sort of isolated to a few specific spaces in your malls or do you think that that’s a trend that you’re seeing gain a little more momentum than you have over the last few years? And how big will some of these retailers go? What we are seeing is the desire for space at the top tier centers.
It’s really led many of these tenants to look at configurations and sizes that are more than just the profitability of that individual location.
So at some of our centers like Queens and Tysons where spaces are at a premium we’ve seen not only the traditional retailers like Forever 21 and H&amp;M who have always been willing to work with a two level box.
We’ve seen some more traditional tenants like The Gap potentially Victoria’s Secret and some others start to look and look at these locations as key to their business operations in the entire region as opposed to just on an individual basis.
So historically the thought was always to take a big space carve it into small spaces increase your rent and what we are really seeing at the top tier centers is almost the opposite effect where we are able to accumulate bigger spaces many of the retailers stepping up and creating premium rentals.
Okay.
So it’s mostly isolated in some of the top tier centers you would say? Yes.
Okay and then just a last question for Tom.
I just wanted to clarify; I think you said you cut guidance by about $0.03 a share for tenant recoveries.
You mean lease termination fee income as opposed to tenant reimbursements is that right? Yes that’s correct Todd termination revenue.
Right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Ben Yang with Evercore.
Good morning Ben.
Hi good morning.
Just another question on guidance.
I totally understand why you keep a wide range given obviously the typical unknowns the noise the conservatism but your prior guidance did have $0.07 to $0.14 of dilution from the asset sales and it seems like the guidance range should have at least narrowed just based on having wrapped up that process.
So it is still a little curious that the guidance range is still $0.10 and especially since you have more clarity on lease termination fees.
So maybe asking it in a different way is there anything in the back half of the year that you feel is maybe more uncertain than when you first established guidance.
Well like I said the disposition side of things could still have a meaningful impact.
I thought you said that that was pretty much wrapped up for the year.
I did say that and that is true.
I also said that we are committed to continuing to prune our portfolio; that people are continuing to talk to us; that we are not under contract with anybody but it is not out of the question that something could happen on that front that could still be meaningful.
And so if that goes beyond this month this quarter or this year that’s something we’re committed to over a long period of time and obviously having had a number of assets in the markets that still could have an impact.
A couple of things on that.
That $0.10 range on the FFO even if you use the mid-point that’s less than 3% of the total FFO.
So I still don’t think that’s that wide of a range given that you have the most volatility in the fourth quarter as it relates to specialty leasing.
In the fourth quarter you get a third to half of your full year specialty leasing comes in that’s a little hard to predict as well as percentage rents.
So typically the most volatility is going to be in the fourth quarter and that’s why we keep the range.
Okay.
It just seemed like the impact of asset sales if you can get them done even this year just would be very modest I guess to your numbers but that’s fair enough I guess.
There’s not a lot of the year left.
I mean if there were to be additional dispositions the dilutive effect on 2013 would be pretty minimal in my opinion.
Okay.
That’s what I was thinking as well.
Given where we are I hear your comment it’s noted recorded; I understand it.
There are a number of things that are still out there including the dispositions that could affect that number but I understand your appetite to see a tighter range.
We’ll keep that in mind for the future.
Right and then just a final question for Tom.
I think you made an earlier comment; did you say that the dispositions actually hurt the reported growth and sales per square foot that if the you...
Year-over-year they did.
Yes they did.
Can you quantify how much the impact was from… It’s about $5 a foot.
So if you didn’t sell any assets year-over-year your portfolio sales would be $5 higher; that’s the interpretation.
The spread would be $5 wider.
Yes.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O’Neill.
Yes good morning out there.
Very good.
How are you? Hey how are you? First question is for Tom.
Tom in the first quarter I think your guys ended line of credit balance was $635 million.
You raised $630 million of net proceeds and the line of credit is now $405 which sounds like you spent $400 million.
So maybe there’s some stuff that closed post quarter that’s not in there.
But just sort of want to understand; one what some of the spending was in the quarter and then two the line of credit is already sort of at a healthy amount and you guys haven’t started on the redevelopment program.
So just sort of curious what your thoughts are for managing the line of credit as balancing the redevelopment projects that are in the shadow pipeline.
Yes I’ll walk you through that Alexander.
We did pay off the FlatIron mortgage which you probably don’t have factored in there in your cash flow analysis but at the end of the quarter we’ll start there and go forward was $405 million outstanding at June 30.
We subsequently sold Redmond Town Center our share was about $63 million.
So that would go against the $405 million and on top of that which hasn’t happened yet is the Tysons financing which we expect to happen August 30 or September 1.
That should be another $275 million.
So with that the line of credit will be under $100 million.
There will be additional borrowings on the Tysons project which will come through there but I would expect we would end September with a line of credit balance probably well under $200 million and I would expect it to not be much more than that by year-end and that’s absent any additional asset sales.
So we’re in great shape and as you hopefully noticed we renegotiated that line.
We’ve got $2 billion of capacity and the maturity date’s been extended to 2018 as well as we tightened the borrowers spread to 150 over LIBOR.
So the balance sheet’s in great shape and in particularly the line of credit.
Okay then that’s helpful.
Yes I did notice the line of credit the increase on your credit card capacity.
And following along on the redevelopment/development the shadow pipeline moved around a little bit from first quarter to second quarter.
Art you spoke a little bit about it but sort of the big picture as you guys map out what you want to do for the next round is that more driven by what anchors want to do with their space or potentially coming to a mall or development or is most of this shifting around and timing and spend more driven by small shop opportunity? Actually neither.
If you look at the shadow pipeline in particular because the actual process pipeline is I think very specific between FOC FON Niagara and Tysons Corner but you go to the shadow pipeline.
It’s really more the fact that most all of these Broadway Plaza Green Acres Kings Cerritos even the new center to be built at Goodyear they’re all going to be extremely meaningful in terms of what they are going to do for us and its really a matter of recognizing that these are generational opportunities and while we want to give you a visibility into the future as to what’s out there we also want to not rush into construction and miss a generational opportunity by being hasty.
So it’s really if anything an appetite to just make sure that we don’t leave any NAV value creation opportunities on the table given the fact that most of these opportunities are really generational in nature.
Okay.
And then just finally Queens Center; I think you guys still had whether it was additional level to add on top or I think there was also a parcel adjacent but just given the productivity of that center and also that you are talking about doing Green Acres and Kings is there any potential to seeing Queens Center on the shadow pipeline in the near future? Not likely.
If it does we’ve got estimates of going up and converting some of the top level parking deck to retail.
Those dollar numbers are not huge.
They were in the $25 million zip code and we just have not to date found the right tenant to take two level spaces that would incorporate that space at the right returns to make sense of that.
Do I think that will happen over time? Yes I do.
We’ve got 40 000-45 000 feet of FARs sitting up there on the top level deck where Macy’s currently is open for business on their fourth level above the concourse for future expansion but it’s not something that we would pursue without getting the right returns and it’s not even something that would make shadow pipeline today but it is in our FAR.
Okay.
Thank you.
I think we’ve got time for one more question operator.
We’ll take our final question from Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
I guess looking at the redevelopment pipeline what are the obstacles you have to get past or what do you have to get comfortable with to move forward with Broadway and Estrella in particular? Broadway I think we’re going to be in a position to be very specific on our next call as to the timing of demolition as well as the reopening dates.
I’d rather not get into the specifics of the one or two approvals that remain at Broadway at this point in time; it wouldn’t serve our purposes.
At Estrella the opening date budgeted there was 2016 2017 given the anchor level of interest is still looking solid and we are not at the point of doing pre-leasing at this point in time other than collecting anchor interest and the anchor interest is there to build.
So really again given the generational opportunities that there’s really only going to be one full priced mall built in Phoenix probably in the next number of years we just want to make sure we get it right and we want to make sure that we have the proper amount of wind in our backs in terms of specialty store leasing when we actually go ahead and open it.
So they are on the same pipeline because we think we are going to do it.
They haven’t moved up to the in-process because we haven’t announced exact dollar figures and exact dates yet.
My anticipation is virtually everything there on the shadow pipeline will move up to the top to the in-process over the next six months to nine months.
Got it.
Okay that was it.
Thanks.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for joining us and again for those of you that still have pending questions feel free to reach out to any of us and we are happy to address any of your questions.
Thank you for joining us and those of you that joined us on the property tour of FOC next time you’re in Chicago it’s a five minute quick trip on your layover to hop over and take a look at the real live thing.
We really did open it.
It really is occupied and it really is doing good.
Thank you very much.
Again that does conclude today’s presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Macerich Company Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
Again this call is being recorded and I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Ma’am.
Thank you everyone for joining us on our third quarter 2013 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risk associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the Company’s press release and SEC filings.
As this call will be webcast for some time to come we believe it is important to note that the passage of time can render information stale and you should not rely on the continued accuracy of this material.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the Investors section of the Company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors; Tom O’Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bobby Perlmutter Executive Vice President Leasing; and John Perry Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Today we will be keeping our introductory comments brief to allow plenty of time for Q&amp;A.
That being said we will be limiting this call to one hour.
If run out of time and you are still in need of questions being answered please do not hesitate to reach out for me Art John Perry or Jean Wood.
It was another great quarter.
We continued to execute on our plan to dispose of non-core assets.
We continue to strengthen our balance sheet and we had a very strong operating performance during the quarter.
Looking at our operating metrics leasing volumes and spreads were both good.
We signed 306 000 square feet of leases during the quarter with an average positive releasing spreads of 14.2% over the trailing 12-month period.
Mall occupancy was at 93.7%.
That was up 90 basis points year-over-year.
Also it’s very important to note when looking at the year-over-year occupancy gain that over the past four quarters we’ve had about 250 000 square feet that had been converted from temporary tenant occupancy to permanent leases.
The average rent differential between a permanent lease and a temporary lease is between $20 and $25 per square foot.
Currently we have 5.6% of our occupancy which comes from tenants we consider temporary.
We will continue to focus on converting those tenants to permanent occupancy in the near future.
In terms of FFO for the quarter it was up 10% at $0.86 per share compared to $0.78 a year ago included in that was same-center NOI of 3.5% compared to the third quarter of last year.
That increase was driven by increased occupancy positive releasing spreads and annual CPI increases.
Year-to-date same-center NOI was up 3.83% and our guidance for the year remains at 3.75% to 4.25% and just to remind you that’s up a 100 basis points from our initial guidance for this year.
Included in FFO for the quarter was a $1.4 million gain on early extinguishment of debt.
The results of significant interest expense savings during the quarter as our average interest rate is down to 4.22% compared to 4.88% in the third quarter of last year.
That’s also evidenced by our 2.9 times interest coverage ratio for the quarter.
Our balance sheet we have again made significant progress our debt-to-market cap at the end of the quarter was 42% and our floating-rate debt has been reduced to 12.7%.
That’s about half of what it was year ago.
Our average debt maturity duration has increased to six years that’s up from 4.2 years at September 30 of 2012.
We recently committed to a $268 million life insurance company financing on the currently unencumbered FlatIron Crossing mall.
That’s a seven year fixed-rate transaction with a rate of 3.85% that loan is expected to close in November and the loan proceeds will be used primarily to pay down floating-rate debt.
So that will reduce our floating rate debt to under 10% of our total debt and it will also stretch out our maturity schedule.
At September 30 the Company’s debt to EBITDA was 7.75 times that’s down from 8.25 at the beginning of the year.
We also have relatively light interest rate sensitivity if you look at the maturities coming up in 2014 2015 and 2016.
We’ve only got a $119 million of debt maturing in 2014 at an average rate of 4.1%.
We’ve got $640 million maturing in 2015 with a high coupon rate of 5.5% in 2016.
We’ve got $525 million maturing with an average interest rate of 5.8% so we’ve got lot of room from where we are today to those rates and we would expect that we would have very little if any negative impact from interest rate increases.
Also as I mentioned after the FlatIron financing transaction our floating rate debt will only represent about 8% of our total debt.
In our press release this morning we updated our FFO guidance.
We increased the midpoint of our previously issued 2013 FFO per share diluted guidance range by $0.06 the new range is $3.46 to $3.52.
The revised guidance range includes the actual dilutive impact of $0.18 per share relating to the disposition of seven non-core assets as well as selling $171 million worth of equity in May.
Our initial guidance only called for range of $0.07 to $0.14 of dilution from those capital transactions.
The increase in the guidance results from the third quarter beat and the balance is primarily driven by strong operations that we’ve seen throughout the year.
On October 24 we increased our quarterly dividend per share by 6.9% it’s now $0.62 per share per quarter.
This increased dividend represents a 4.2% annual dividend yield based on today’s price.
Looking at tenant sales portfolio mall tenant sales per square foot were up 7.4% to $549 a foot for the trailing 12 months compared to $511 for the trailing 12 months ended September 30 2012.
The impact of the assets that we sold on that number was $10 per foot so the sales growth excluding the impact of those assets would have been approximately 5.4%.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom and welcome to our call.
I would like to touch upon a few topics that have been very much talked about in the last couple of months with regard to regional mall landlords and that relates to releasing spreads and moderating sales increases from tenants and its impact on same-center NOI.
I also want to discuss a little bit the portfolio management activities that we have had including recently announced dispositions our balance sheet and then finally our development pipeline and then open it up to questions.
It’s clear that tenant sales have moderated over the past year but releasing spreads today remain extremely strong.
Tenants in our malls are making a lot of money.
They are doing great sales productivity and there is extremely high demand.
Laws of supply and demand work heavily in our favor and if you look at the portfolio that we own virtually all of the malls that we own are – at least 85% of the malls that we own are must-have malls.
So when it comes time for a tenant to renew it’s not a matter of how much rent we’re going to get it’s really a matter of just coming to the proper number and then moving forward.
Many times we find tenants in centers like Queens Center where they are paying us already 40% some of sales and we tell them look it’s probably time for you to move on if you don’t your rents are going to have to go up to a certain number.
They elect to stay because when you are in must have trophy centers like Queen’s Tysons Santa Monica and many others that we own.
The tenants cannot afford to lose these spaces as part of their brand.
Anecdotally if you look back to the Great Depression of all of 2008 to the end of the third quarter of 2009.
Tenant sales in our portfolio dropped 15% to 16% it was a disaster.
But even in that environment because we were sitting on sales increases from 2004 through 2008 that had not been mined yet.
We had releasing spreads of 14% in the year 2009.
If you look at our centers spreads are better or higher in our best centers.
Our top 10 centers year-to-date had leasing spreads of a little over 30%.
The next group of 20 centers have leasing spreads of just under 10% and the balance of the portfolio had leasing spreads of around 5% for an average of 14.2% which all makes sense.
Regionally we had leasing spreads in Arizona of 12.5% year-to-date in our central regions 7.8% in the Eastern region 30% spreads Northern California and Pacific Northwest 6% and Southern California 13%.
Our outlook for leasing remains extremely strong.
If you look at our top 40 centers the sales in that group of centers averaged just over $606 a square foot and I’ll remind you as you think about sales that we’re one of the only top tier Wall street companies that disclose sales on a center by center basis over the last five years.
So any confusion you may have about sales and productivity obviously can be answered by looking at that.
85% of our NOI comes from our top 40 centers they average $606 a foot.
Cost of occupancy in those centers is about 13.3%.It would not at all be out of the question if you would ask me how much embedded sales growth we have in those centers to tell you we easily have 20% mark-to-market in those centers and that’s without any future sales increases.
So we remain extremely positive about our outlook on leasing spreads.
Moving to same-center NOI I’m very pleased to remind you that at the beginning of the year we gave you guidance that our same-center NOI would be in the range of 0.50% and 0.75% to 3.25%.
We upgraded our guidance during the course of the year to 3.75% to 4.25%.
Part of the thing that helped to drive that number is our efforts this year to put more focus on the conversion of temps to perms and that certainly helped to drive our same-center NOI growth.
The guidance levels that we’re at right now 3.75% to 4.25% those are very strong numbers.
Very few sectors are able to put up those kind of numbers year-in and year-out and again we have a very very bright outlook for the future here.
Same-center NOI obviously is a function of many things.
In our portfolio a big piece of our same-center NOI is the fact that 70% of our leases are tied to a multiple of the cost of living increase.
So we automatically every January get a bump of 1.5% to 2% depending on the inflation rate.
Leasing spreads obviously have an impact on same-center NOI and we’ve been able to put up strong leasing spreads historically even in the toughest of times and we see strong spreads going forward.
Probably the big number that would influence same-center NOI from one portfolio to another is occupancy and I’ll be the first to tell you that we are very stingy in terms of the rent that we get.
We’re very frugal in terms of the tenant allowances that we give and we demand high rents and at times that means that we do not get rent increases as fast or we suffer turnover in our centers as we are replacing low productivity tenants with high productivity tenants.
I took a look at centers like Queens and Tysons and Broadway Plaza and North Bridge and we don’t include any of those centers in our redevelopment or development non same-center pipeline and yet each of them are going through major releasing or are the subject of a major redevelopment that’s going on.
Queens has had substantial lease turnover.
And when you have frictional vacancy in a center like Queens and you are going from a tenant that is paying $1.5 million of rent to a new kind of tenant that’s paying $3.5 million of rent and that obviously has a big impact in your same-center NOI.
If we’re chasing same-center NOI we wanted to take a short-term solution and not do the right thing for the real estate then we could put up better numbers in centers like that.
But that’s the wrong thing to do when you have those opportunities.
My guess is between those four centers and a couple of others of that nature that we do not exclude from our same-center NOI even though we know at centers like Tysons where we’re readying the center for the introduction of the new Plaza – Broadway Plaza where we’re de-leasing the center in preparation for its demolition.
North Bridge where we’ve had substantial recycling my guess is is that our same-center NOI has been impacted by 50 basis points to 75 basis points just from holding space off or de-leasing space or frictional vacancy in centers of that nature.
Looking to portfolio management I think that we are very happy with what we’ve accomplished over the last year.
It doesn’t come without a price to earnings.
Obviously at the beginning of the year as Tom mentioned we gave you guidance that we forecast $0.07 to $0.14 a share in dilution from disposition.
In fact that number is going to be about $0.18 a share.
So even though we currently are sitting on FFO growth for this year after all of that dilution of 11% had we not elected to go through the culling that we went through and to reload our balance sheet for the future we would’ve had FFO growth this year of 17% to 18%.
As I think about the portfolio management that we’ve accomplished I can look at it either one or two ways.
I can look at it and say we essentially paid for the $1.7 billion of real estate that we bought in Kings Plaza Green Acres buying the 33% interest in Arrowhead and the 75% interest back in FlatIron in the fall of last year.
We either paid for that with our dispositions or we have essentially pre-funded our $1 billion development pipeline through our dispositions.
Between dispositions and the equity raise that we have this year we have delevered the company by a little over $1.1 billion.
During the quarter or at the end of the quarter there was an announcement that two centers are under contract with one of our peers and a couple of analysts have guessed that those two centers are Chesterfield and Salisbury.
Those are pretty good guesses and we would anticipate that that transaction and the ordinary course of business after it flows through the rating agencies because both of them have CMBS debt to close later on this year.
Looking to our balance sheet.
It amazes me that investors over the last 18 months have forgotten 2008 and 2009 especially as we’re moving into a period of tremendous financial uncertainty with government shutdowns and slowing retail sales.
It gives me great comfort that when we said to you about two or three years ago that we were going to completely transform both the left side and the right side of our balance sheet that we have substantially strengthened our asset base both through the addition of great new assets the construction of great new assets as well as some selective dispositions.
But we also have tremendously strengthened our balance sheet.
Just this year alone we have delivered our Company by another $1 billion through our disposition and the equity raise.
So we are extremely pleased with where we find ourselves here.
Tom took a look for you at our maturities over the next three years.
Again I would remind you take a close look at how much we have lengthened our maturity schedule.
Tremendous amount of our maturities are now in the 2020 2021 2022 and beyond but even looking at the next three years our pro rata – the debt that we have maturing over the next three years is about $1.6 billion.
Treasuries could go to at least 3.75% maybe even 4% and we’re not going to go backwards in terms of the interest rate that we pay on that debt.
Looking at those maturities in a different way our estimate is based upon current underwriting standards that those $1.6 billion of maturities could easily generate $800 million to $900 million of excess refinancing proceeds which we would then use to go ahead and you could think of that as another source of self-funding our $1 billion development and redevelopment pipeline.
Speaking of which Fashion Outlets of Chicago obviously opened up to a tremendous reception.
Sales at the center are doing terrific.
Traffic is outstanding.
We are getting incredible reports from all of the retailers.
Virtually every retailer talks about it being it’s one of their best openings if not their best opening ever.
We’ve had great contributors from tenants such as Coach and Gucci and Kors and Prada and Tory Burch and True Religion.
Our anchorage Forever 21 Bloomingdale Saks’s Off 5th Neiman Marcus.
Last Call they are doing all terrific.
We have great new tenants coming in the fourth quarter with Diane von Furstenberg montelair Trina Turk and Zegna and Burberry and metro coming in the spring of next year.
Based upon current sales estimates we’ve moved fashion outlets of Chicago in terms of our estimated sales rankings to just in the ballpark of our top 10.
We’ve actually got it ranked at number 11.
You’ll see in our supplement.
We don’t know what the sales are going to be obviously and we have sales results for two months but two months cannot forecast what the first year or two is going to be.
But I can tell you the traffic continues to be terrific.
The tourists are beginning to find us.
We’ve had over 50% of our foreign shoppers are from China which makes sense and we see tremendous upside from this center.
We see opportunities for some nice surprises on percentage rents which actually is part of the reason for the breadth in range for the fourth quarter because we won’t know until we see those sales.
My current guesstimate is that if the sales levels that we would expect this center to be at that we’re currently sitting at a cost of occupancy at this center even though we got strong rents going into it under 10%.
So as tenants rollover and in terrific centers you do have rollover we find that in the great centers that when they open great the unproductive tenants are exposed and great new tenants that see the opportunity are there to replace them with that kind of cost of occupancy that we see it’s currently being under 10% at this center.
We would see great opportunity for growth as we have an opportunity to continue to lease up the balance of the space as well as in the years to come to book percentage rents and the natural roll over that we’ll have.
Moving to Tysons Corner that project will be coming online next year it’s on-time on-budget the office leasing is up to just under 70% we expect to open the office well over 90% committed.
As I mentioned the retail center is having tremendous benefits in terms of interest from tenants.
We’ve got flagship tenants that Bobby may allude to later that have committed to come and occupy retail space at Tyson but part of the price of making that space available it is the vacancy or frictional vacancy that you suffer to create that opportunity for them.
We had announced in previous calls that we see an all in going in cash on cash returns on the densification investment of something over 8%.
And that doesn’t include any uplift in the retail rents which we believe will be substantial over time.
In looking at our supplement Fashion Outlets of Niagara.
We are now getting ready to break ground we’re 70% leased we’ve got in our supplement $75 million of cost with a 9% incremental return.
There is also substantial releasing of the existing mall at Fashion Outlets of Niagara that’s taking place as we are moving tenants from the existing mall into the expansion mall and then backfilling with new tenants.
If I were to include the increment that we are going to pick up in the existing mall as part of the expansion which would not be an abnormal way of looking at it and then I would see an all-in return on this expansion investment of 15%.
Looking at North Bridge it’s been announced in the press that Eataly as well as a couple of great new restaurants are going to be opening up in late November.
We see that as being something that is going to drive tremendous traffic to the South Michigan corridor which is anchored by the number one Nordstrom in the world at North Bridge Mall.
In our supplement you see a couple of new projects mentioned.
We finally have gotten a wink and a nod that appears that we are going to able to get approvals to add a new movie theater to the 50 000 square feet of space that we’ve been warehousing on the third level of Santa Monica Place that will generate tremendous traffic to the third level.
There are no first class movie theaters West of the 405 or certainly in Santa Monica.
This is going to drive at least 2 500 to 3 000 people a day.
Add to that the new metro link the new Rapid Transit Rail System that opens up in two years across the street from Santa Monica Place which will coincide with the new theater opening and the future there is very bright.
At Scottsdale Fashion Square we’re adding a new anchor complex which is a combination of a major new theater as well as the Dick’s Sporting Goods and we think that that’s just the natural extension to a great regional mall of that nature.
The highlight of our redevelopment pipeline is Broadway Plaza.
Just last week we finally got approval from the Core of Engineers for the vacation of an easement which was necessary for the drainage easement that was necessary in order to enable us to move forward with the demolition of this center and building a brand new mall in this location.
If you think about what we’re doing at Broadway Plaza it’s not that different than what we did at Santa Monica Place five years ago.
At Santa Monica Place five years ago we completely shut down the mall there.
The only difference between what we are doing at Broadway Plaza and Santa Monica Place is that we’re not shutting down the anchors and we’re not shutting down the entire mall.
But we are going to be tearing down about 175 000 square feet of space.
Currently one of the weaknesses of Broadway Plaza is that we just don’t have enough specialty space for the retail tenant.
We only have about 100 000 square feet of specialty space available for the retail tenant.
So upon completion of this expansion which involves the demolition of all of the retail space between Nordstrom which is one of the top 10 Nordstroms in the United States and Macy’s which is one of the top 20 Macy’s in the United States.
We’ll be tearing down all of the specialty stores between those two department stores most likely next year.
My guess is that in the next supplement this project will move up to the green light category and then it will be opening up in phases and in late 2015 and early 2016 with the final phase being in 2017.
We see an incremental investment of $250 million with an incremental return of 8% to 9%.
When we think about these incremental returns we take the current net operating income that we have today and that we say okay we have to earn a return on investment that is in excess of that earned income.
So today we have let’s say for example $15 million of NOI coming from Broadway Plaza if we’re going to spend $250 million on new investment and we hope to see at least an 8% incremental return then we have to see at least a $20 million incremental return as well as replace the $15 million that was there in the beginning.
The center is going to be an unbelievable powerhouse with a brand new mall.
I would tell you it’s the most exciting location to be built in the United States.
Walnut Creek is one of the most sought after locations in the entire West Coast and it’s certainly one of the three must have locations in the Bay Area.
Add to that a top Nordstrom a brand new Neiman Marcus and a strong Macy’s store and a proven track record for this center (which opened in 1951) for over 60 years there is probably no other redevelopment or expansion opportunities like this.
We are essentially building a brand new mall in the middle of an incredible trade area.
With that I’d like to open it up to questions operator.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Hi Craig.
Hi how are you? Art I was wondering if you could spend a little time and talk about how the redevelopment efforts at Kings Plaza and Green Acres are going to differ? Sure the initial development efforts at Green Acres currently we’re primarily looking at building a series of tower center type tenants as well as entertainment type tenants on the 20 acres of land that we bought next door to Green Acres.
We’re also doing a tremendous amount of leasing at Green Acres which maybe Bobby you may want to touch upon.
And long-term obviously we’ll be looking at the future of our department stores that are there one of which would love to expand but obviously they need to get their act together before they can think of such a thing.
So right now tremendous amount of releasing is beginning to happen inside the mall at Green Acres and then we’re looking at adding new retail space which we’re getting tremendous rents from a lot of the bigger box type users on the 20 acres of land that we bought there.
At Kings Bob would you like to comment on kind of what the merchandising plan is in focuses on Kings Plaza? Sure Craig this is Bob Perlmutter.
I would describe Kings as having two opportunities.
The first one sits within the existing small store set.
We believe we have the opportunity over the next couple of years to really make Kings much closer to Queens in terms of physical improvements in terms of merchandise mix in terms of the way it’s operated and marketed and ultimately in terms of sales.
And as we’ve discussed if we can get the sales at Kings to a closer level to Queens there will be significant rent growth over the coming years.
The longer term piece is the potential redevelopment of the Sears box which affords us approximately 300 000 feet of space that we believe over a longer period of time it maybe carved up into both specialty stores and restaurants as well as some box tenants.
So there is opportunity within the existing mall stores and then there is the potential to redevelop one in the existing anchors.
Great.
And then just on Paradise Valley I noticed that you’ve taken away the projected cost.
Are you thinking of enlarging that redevelopment or scaling it down? Scaling it down.
There’s uncertainty in terms of getting approvals from certain anchored apartment stores that have put a little bit more into a reconsideration category which was a new development.
So scaling it back.
Thank you.
Next we will go to Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Good morning.
Tom in your opening remarks you talked about temp to perm about 250 000 square feet over the last four quarters and currently about 560 basis points of temporary that I guess you would seek to eventually move over to permanent category that uplift of $20 to $25 of rent.
So I’m just curious what’s the basis that you’re using in terms of square footage? I think it’s probably about 1 million square feet is that but I wasn’t sure in terms of that 560 basis points.
How much of that do you think you’re going to be able to convert the time to convert it and the capital that you need to put in to get the rents that you’re looking for? Mike I’ll take the first part of that and then I’ll defer it to Bobby.
This is his team is the team that’s really got to do it.
The 5.6% is roughly 1.3 million square feet in total.
The capital it’s typically not a very capital intensive effort at least to-date it has not been.
So the capital really isn’t a significant part of the equation.
Bobby you want to comment on timing? Yes In terms of timing I think we see a long-term stabilized temporary occupancy of 3% to 4%.
One of the things to remember is when we are able to convert the temporary to permanent it’s not that we necessarily exit the temporary tenant out of the mall.
We typically will maintain the temp in a lesser location.
So part of what’s occurring is the temp is being converted to permanent.
A full rent is being achieved yet the permanent – the temporary tenant is often relocated to another part of the center.
So we’ll always have some degree of temporary tenants within the centers.
So I guess you are looking at total occupancy moving up in addition to the conversion.
So you sort of get a dual benefit from that? Right.
And I think roughly we have over the last year about a 200 basis point increase in permanent occupancy.
Okay.
And then just on the disposition I just want to make sure I get the change in sort of what you’re doing.
Including the two assets to Rausch you’ll have disposed of about $920 million gross of assets is about $300 million of debt on those assets so generating net equity of $622 million.
Originally guidance was $500 million to $1 billion about a third debt so $650 million of proceeds so sort of right smack in the middle from an equity perspective.
So I am just curious how much of it was timing in terms of I guess now you are seeing $0.18 of dilution for the year and I guess how should we think about an annualized dilution impact from the sales activity.
How much was timing how much was price just sort of what were the ins and outs relative to your original thought process on the sales? Michael one point of clarification on the $0.18 $0.05 of that dilution came from the equity issuance in May that was not part of our initial guidance.
So $0.13 related to the dispositions that have happened year-to-date obviously if anything happens between now and year end is going to have a pretty short period of time in 2013 so we wouldn’t expect much impact there one way or another.
As far as the timing of when that transaction materialized it was just the ordinary course of business.
Look we are committed on an ongoing basis to pruning our portfolio and reinvesting proceeds from certain assets into our redevelopment pipeline and our top tier assets.
That’s going to be ongoing.
In August when we had our last call we had nothing in the works there was nothing under contract.
So this really developed after August it is what it is.
Right thank you.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) We will go next to Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi good morning guys.
While we are on the disposition topic do you have anything else I guess currently in the hopper as we look at 2014 I mean I realize you’ll be opportunistic as these come along but is there anything you’re sort of actively pushing or engaging at this point? Our policy on acquisitions and dispositions is generally not to comment on individual transactions.
But I’ll repeat that we’re committed on a long-term basis to recycling our capital and to constantly through portfolio management which – that’s kind of the word I used for instead of dispositions today was portfolio management through portfolio management to recycle out of certain what we consider to be non-core assets into our core assets to go for more assets to fewer bigger assets.
Look I’ll go back to the assets that we’re selling.
We didn’t dislike any of them.
We liked them all but it made sense for us to prudently recycle our capital and this market is allowing the transaction market is allowing that activity to take place.
So I’m sure that in our next call if there’s anything you’re going to be in the works that would affect our 2014 guidance.
We’ll do what we did for you in the January guidance call of this year.
But at this point in time what’s under contract is that’s been disclosed is it but long-term we’re committed to culling our portfolio.
In the appetite by buyers is that changing in anyway? Would you say is it getting better or possibly worse I guess? I think that there are more buyers out there today than there were at the beginning of the year and I think the appetite of the specific buyer is higher today than it was at the beginning of the year.
Okay good thank you and then Tom on the recovery ratio it’s staying – the expense recovery ratio it’s staying what seems to be unusually high but it stayed that way now for a couple of quarters.
So I am just curious is this unusual and we’re going to head kind of back down a bit or should we keep the ratio up here? No.
I think this is what you’re going to see Rich.
I mean keep in mind that we have CPI increases built in not just for our minimum rents but also for fixed CAM charges.
And oftentimes we have a better escalator on the CAM recoveries than we do on our minimum rents.
In many cases it’s 2 times CPI.
So that’s what helps charge the recovery rate and should help drive the gross margin as well.
Okay good.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Rich.
Thanks.
And next we will go to Luke McCarthy with Deutsche Bank.
Hey guys just I guess quickly on getting it out of the way.
If you could just comment on JCPenney and kind of what you guys are hearing from them post back-to-school season as we head into holiday sales? Look they seem to be generating more traffic.
We have exits or intercept interviews with their store managers which thankfully I think is a better source of information than you might get corporately.
And the store managers are pleased with the new management team and they are optimistic about the future beyond that I am the last person in the world that could prognosticate the future there other than we are long term supporters of JCPenney as a brand and long term I think JCPenney is here to stay.
Sure okay and then just one follow-up on redevelopment.
There were some articles out there earlier in the year about you guys particularly responding well to your demographics I mean in California in Phoenix with very culturally specific favorable attractions at the sites.
Moving forward as you continue to focus on that effort does that change from a cost perspective how you underwrite the deals or think about redevelopment moving forward? No but it’s an interesting question.
Look the lessons that we’ve learned in terms of focusing on our Vanguardia [ph] program.
Is that you need to be in touch with your market whatever that market maybe.
And that’s the thing that drove us three years ago to come up with the crazy idea of tearing down Broadway Plaza at Walnut Creek.
Walnut Creek is not a spare but the lessons that we learned of being in touch with your community.
Being in touch with your demographic and realizing what your demographic ones it’s transferable across the board to all income groups and all ethnic groups.
And Broadway Plaza as we looked at it we said look its great the anchors are great.
But there is so much demand for specialty space and the shoppers want so much more we are just not giving it to them basically we can’t give it to them unless we tear down roughly 60% of the center and 70% of the parking deck and rebuild the whole thing.
And it was insane frankly in some peoples minds for us to think about it but as we look at it today.
I think it’s the best redevelopment opportunity to invest that kind of money to create a center that’s going to be worth could be worth $1 billion.
It’s an incredible opportunity and it’s only as a result of really just paying attention to your trade area and not being satisfied with something that’s good but we’re even great but always wanting it to be at its highest investor utilization.
That’s what drove us to do what we are doing at Walnut Creek that’s what drove us to do the densification at Tysons Corner.
It was paying attention to the metro rail coming.
Again that was not a cultural thing but paying attention to your trader and always striving to take your real estate to the highest investors.
Okay great thanks guys.
Thanks Luke.
And next we’ll go to Daniel Busch with Green Street Advisors.
When I look at the different mall groupings in the supplemental package it looks like there’s quite a sizable gap between occupancy in the top 40 malls versus the ones outside the top 40 and I know Art you mentioned that the retailer demand for space is quite strong.
Is that demand is it tend to drive pretty quickly when you get outside of your top 40 malls? I guess I’m just trying to get a better sense of what the demand for space is at those lower productivity centers? I’ll let Bob answer that but our actual numbers year-to-date are that we’ve had pretty decent results in that group of 41 to 57.
Bob do you want to talk about it? Yeah I mean I think the first point is we have been able to generate positive leasing spreads even in the lowest tier group.
I think that the two differences are primarily the nature of your tenant changes a little bit much of it is more local or regionalized tenant as opposed to a national tenant.
We find that we’re successful in maintaining tenants at renewals but again the nature of the tenancy is a little bit different and probably our biggest opportunities are less on leasing spreads and more on improving long-term occupancy.
Okay.
Just one other question just looking at the portfolio makeup I know obviously you’ve been pretty active disposing of the assets I guess on the lower tier of the portfolio but I know you’ve mentioned in the past that you want to focus on those markets where you have exposure or a great presence in and there are a couple of assets I guess where – I am thinking of you have one less than Texas that’s above – in the top 40.
Are those malls where you don’t really have a presence in the market? Are those potential assets that you may look to dispose over the long-term? No not that one in particular; look it’s a national business and maybe I’ve been a little too restraining when I said look we want to focus on six or seven major markets.
That’s not to the exclusion of everything else.
So we’re not going to focus on only six or seven gateway cities.
If a center is a must have center and we still see great upside in it which the one in Bobby we do.
Then it fits our profile.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We picked up that something down the road possibly.
Okay thanks.
Thanks.
Next we’ll go to Haendel St.
Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Hello.
Hey a couple of quick questions for you.
If I heard you right early on the call you said there is a 20% mark-to-market on your top 40 malls even if sales stay flat.
So I guess two questions did I hear that right? And then could you provide the comparable number for your bottom tier malls? Yeah you heard it right.
That said I did say that as I look at it that if you were – I’m asked constantly what’s your mark-to-market and I took a look at the top 40 centers we have which generates 85% of our NOI.
It’s not hard for me to see at least 20% mark-to-market there and that’s without pushing the envelope at all.
That’s really very easy to see.
The opportunity I think as we move below those centers which are number 41 through 57 which are roughly 12% to 15% of our NOI.
The real opportunity there I think is more occupancy gain than it is rent spread and there is opportunities to do that.
So but look what drives this ship here is the top 40 centers and those are the flagships that we own and where really we see the huge upside in.
But I’d say occupancy in the lower tier and rent uplift in the upper tier.
Okay thank you for that.
One more or I guess maybe one and half more.
Just wanted to clarify the two malls sold week or so back it sounds like they were not part of the broader disposition package contemplated earlier this year.
Is that right? Which two are we talking about? That would Chesterfield and Salisbury? They were part of a group of properties that we had a broker exposing to the market earlier this year they were… I guess… That by the way is not that relevant because again I’ll remind you that the fact that we gave a certain number of assets to the broker earlier this year to the intermediary.
I had no estimation or contemplation that all 14 of those assets would be sold.
We didn’t want to speak for the buyers.
We said look these are some assets that fit the profile that we’ve owned them a long time.
We have a low basis in them.
We’re able to do a reverse 1031 tax exchange to increase the basis in these assets to make it possible for us to think about selling them and that’s what we did.
We didn’t pull the market as to what people were interested in or what frankly we were interested in necessarily disposing it other than the fact that they did fit the profile.
They were not in our major markets.
But they were part of a group of assets that were exposed earlier in the year.
Okay okay.
And in the fact of I guess Rouse.
It’s a fairly known Rouse I think about those assets in fact that they emerged as the winning bidder.
Is there something there perhaps a lack of a private equity bid? We’ve obviously seen them the private equity guys very active acquiring quite a few malls this year.
Is there something there that perhaps turned them off maybe Rouse is perhaps the more strategic a better buyer given perhaps operating of strategic synergies or some other factor? Just kind of curious as to with risk of putting words in the mouth of a public peer as to Rouse emerging as the winning bidder over the private equity who you would think could and should pay a higher price.
I wouldn’t want to do that.
We’re pleased to be able to transact with them.
We are natural counter parties to each other and hopefully this is the first of several transactions that we can do with each other.
Appreciate it thanks.
Thank you.
Operator And we’ll go to Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O’Neill.
Hi good morning Arthur.
Good morning.
First question is Tom if we look in the packet the majority of the unencumbered assets are in the lower tier malls which as you guys where in the portfolio presumably those are malls that get sold as you guys have been discussing.
Along those lines because of the balance sheet discipline should we think about the malls in the upper buckets those becoming unencumbered so that you do retain that unencumbered pool or how should we think about that? No I think we’re clearly have moved in the direction of long-term non-recourse financing.
Once we closed on FlatIron Alexander there will no corporate debt outstanding.
We’ve only got a little bit outstanding in line and in $125 million on secured term note.
We will be completely secured borrowed at that point with $1.5 billion letter of credit available to us.
Then Art mentioned a little bit earlier the maturities that we have coming due in 2014 2015 and 2016 those are all for most part high quality assets that are unencumbered I mean relatively lightly encumbered.
And so we’ll be able to put some additional financing on those above and beyond what’s maturing.
So we’re in good shape and I would not expect to see us unencumbering a lot of assets in the top 30 or 40.
Okay.
So previously where you guys had talked about your unencumbered asset pool that was more of a temporary nature not something philosophical that the Company was seeking to maintain them? That’s correct.
I mean if you think about the period of time we’ve been in the last three years or so we’ve been in a generation low of interest rates.
And if you are going to be a non-recourse long-term fixed rate borrower in the last 25 years there has not been a better time to do so.
And so we took advantage of the market conditions and we put some attractive financing on some of those previously unencumbered assets the most recent of which will be FlatIron Crossings.
And you can look at the metrics on our balance sheet.
Our floating rate debt is lower than it’s been in many many years.
Our coverage ratios are better than they’ve been debt-to-EBITDA is rapidly approaching 7.5 times or lower and our maturity schedule has never looked as good as it has now.
So that kind of speaks to the strategy in what we’ve done.
Okay.
It just seems then based on prior calls that you guys were looking to maintain an unencumbered pool so just a little surprise that that was more just a reflection of a certain time period rather than a go-forward? If you look at that period of time you will also see we probably had significant amounts outstanding on our line of credit.
We had some other corporate debt.
So today we have virtually no corporate debt.
Okay.
Without completely forecasting what we were doing we also knew that the assets that were unencumbered were assets that potentially would be disposition candidates in the future.
And we knew that certainly the private equity buyers are much more attracted to being able to put their own debt on these assets when they buy them so that it makes them more saleable.
As of today I think we also brought that up really just to point out our capacity our firepower.
It wasn’t intended to be a signal that we were headed towards becoming a rated Company.
We certainly have a balance sheet today directionally but if we wanted to go that route over the next period of time it could be done but I’m not convinced it’s necessarily the right thing.
To me the most important fact about our balance sheet today is that we have virtually nothing outstanding on $2 billion line of credit and we closed the upcoming FlatIron financing.
We’ve got substantial cash on the balance sheet.
So we got a tremendous amount of capacity sitting here.
Okay.
And then on Superstition you guys bought out the rest of your stake there there is about $350 a foot.
What are your thoughts for that? I mean obviously you guys bought in the rest of the stakes so what are your thoughts for that mall? It was just a transaction that was negotiated with our partner JCPenney and at this point in time we like the asset.
It’s part of the group of assets there that we own.
And we have actually had increases on the occupancy there nothing in particular there shouldn’t be any great signals.
It was done with a partner.
If I had to really look at it and dissect what we did it’s not the type of property that we would buy if we own nothing of it but we already owned two-thirds of it buying the other one-third.
When you’re investing $20 million of equity to do it was not exactly a big stretch for our capital.
And as I think about it from a portfolio management viewpoint it gives us the ability to maybe take some of our C Malls and dispose of them without having a significant dilution from those activities.
So it’s a little bit of a portfolio management decision.
There shouldn’t be any big signal there other than we’re not buying $350 a foot centers on their own today.
But going from 66% to 100% it gives you complete control of the asset which also gives us the ability to think about monetizing it in the future more easily financing it in the future without having to talk to a partner.
There’s not a lot to be read into it though.
Okay.
I didn’t know if there was future expansion or something of that sort but it sounds like not.
Listen thank you.
Okay.
Thanks Alex.
Next we’ll go to Josh Patinkin with BMO Capital Markets.
Thank you.
On the temp to permanent occupancy discussion just wondering if there’s a way to characterize the space? Is it skewed to one anchor in the malls or is it just to spread out to characterize it generally? No you shouldn’t just view this as end zone or department store links.
The spaces are really spread throughout the centers and spread throughout the quality of centers.
Sometimes it’s because we’re trying to accumulate blocks of space to bring in a larger retailer.
Sometimes it is lesser locations.
As the markets been improving we’ve been able to get permanent deals on it.
Okay.
So lot of times it’s your decision to hold this space right the 50 yard line for a couple of years as you wait for better tenants? Sometimes; sometimes it’s to fill timing that we need for these tenants.
But the space is as a general rule you shouldn’t just view them as lesser spaces within the centers.
Okay.
And then kind of tying that into the specialty leasing business I’m curious how you see that going forward? What is it as a percentage of revenue today and where was it a year ago where do you think it could go and just your general thoughts on it? In terms of this you have specialty tenant leasing? Yes specialty leasing.
Yes today we’re tracking an over $50 million a year.
So it’s a solid contributor to NOI in NOI growth.
It’s a relatively mature category.
When we first rolled this out we’ve seen double-digit increases per year it stabilized a little bit but obviously as we move up the quality scale adding Kings Plaza and Green Acres that’s going to help a little bit.
For example in the third quarter of last year it was about $13 million even this year it was about $13.9 million so we’re still seeing growth there and I don’t see that changing.
I don’t know if you do.
I would say one of the things we’ve been trying to do in the common area is really not only grow the income but improve the quality especially at the top tier centers.
And so that’s been a big challenge of the mall teams and we’re also looking at non-traditional ways to generate revenue within the shopping centers.
So I would almost describe it as a maturing and evolving business within the shopping centers.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Operator And we’ll take our last question from Yasmine Kamaruddin with JPMorgan.
Hey it’s actually Mike Mueller.
Hey Mike.
Hey two questions.
First of all I think you mentioned for Broadway there was about 15 million of NOI.
How do you see that phasing out and over what time period? It’s the first one.
Well I think that our budget first of all that was by illustration but that’s certainly a pretty good ballpark.
We’ll diminish that by about 35% next year.
So we’ll take it down to a low point of $9 or $10 and then we’ll grow it back up as we bring the space back on line.
So they’ll be at least $5 million or $6 million of NOI will disappear next year.
Look it’s a major project where you’re demolishing almost half of the center.
You’ve taken well over half of the parking decks out of service and rebuilding them.
There are a lot of people that would say that’s crazy to do that but the value creation opportunities are huge and our team knows how to do this because we take old centers are reposition them that’s our expertise that’s our core competency.
And yeah to answer your questions 5 million or 6 million of the NOI will go down and we do have a partner there.
So we have half of that.
Got it.
And then we’ll rebuild it to a level that could easily be in the 35 million to 40 million of NOI.
I’m not sure if I actually said it but I mean I don’t think Broadway is even in our top 20 centers in terms of NOI today.
But when we get done with it it’ll probably be in our top 10 maybe even in our top five who knows.
Got it okay.
And the other question was just given the success at Chicago.
Does it change at all how you are looking at incremental outlet developments? Well it certainly gave us a lot of strength in the marketplace in leasing Fashion Outlets of Niagara’s expansion.
It made us really aggressive in terms of moving forward there on that.
And beyond that look it’s a very interesting business that we see ourselves being a player in as we’ve said before.
But again I’ll repeat it we’re not going to own a lot of them because we are going to have the same requirement for our outlet investments as we have for our full price investments and that is that we want fewer bigger stronger assets.
We want them to be dominant.
We want them to be must have in their trade areas.
Got it.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
That’s all the time we have for questions today.
So I’d like to turn it back over to our speakers for any additional remarks.
Again thank you very much for joining us and we look forward to seeing you in couple of weeks at NAREIT.
Thank you very much.
And that does conclude today’s call.
We thank everyone again for their participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Macerich Company Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you everyone for joining us on our fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risk associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the Company’s press release and SEC filings.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the Investors section of the Company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors; Tom O’Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bobby Perlmutter Executive Vice President Leasing; and John Perry Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean and welcome everyone.
Today we’ll be limiting this call to one hour.
If we run out of time and you still have questions please do not hesitate to call me or John Perry or Jean Wood.
It was another great quarter.
We executed on our plan to dispose non-core assets.
We continue to strengthen our balance sheet and we had a very strong operating performance during the quarter.
Looking at the operating metrics the leasing volume and spreads were both good.
We signed leases on specialty tenants totaling 330 000 square feet and we had positive releasing spreads for the trailing 12 months of 7.2% excuse me 17.2%.
The occupancy level was at 94.6% at the end of the year.
That was up 80 basis points from year end 2012.
It’s also important to note when looking at the year-over-year occupancy gain that we reduced our temporary occupancy that is included in that statistic temporary occupancy at year end stood at 5.8% and that’s down from 6.9% a year ago.
That’s an area we will continue to focus on converting temporary tenants from an occupancy.
Average base rents increased to $48.16 that’s up 8.7% from $44.29 at the end of 2012.
Looking at FFO the adjusted FFO for the quarter as $0.94 per share that’s up from $0.90 in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The full year FFO was up over 10% at $3.53 compared to $3.18 from 2012.
Same-center NOI was strong growth was strong in the quarter it increased by 4.9% compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
This increase was driven by increased occupancy positive releasing spreads annual CPI increases on leases.
Year-to-date same-store NOI was up 4.1%.
Also on the same center base looking at expense recoveries for the quarter they were up to 96% and that compared to 92% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We had a very modest amount of lease termination revenue in the fourth quarter that was 600 000 that was down from $2.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Bad debt expense was also down for the quarter relatively modest level of $1.1 million down from $1.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Throughout the year we had significant savings on interest expense due to the significant refinancing we had done over the last two years.
Most of that benefit flowed through the first three quarters.
During the fourth quarter the average interest rate was at 4.22% down slightly from the 4.29% at the end of last year.
We also make great progress on our balance sheet.
Looking at the balance sheet stats at the end of this year compared to 12-31-12 factoring in the acquisition of Green Acres which happened in January debt-to-market cap went down from 45% to 40.5%.
Interest coverage ratio improved from 2.8 times the 3.2 times.
Debt-to-EBITDA improved significantly down from 8.1 times to 7.2 times on a forward basis.
Average debt maturity improved from 5.3 years to 5.9 years.
And floating rate debt as a percentage of total debt decreased from 23% at the beginning of the year to 10% today.
In addition as we look at our maturities schedule we have very little interest rate sensitivity in our upcoming maturities.
We have only $119 million of debt maturing in 2014 and that’s a 4.1%.
We have $640 million of debt maturing in 2015 with an average interest rate of 5.5% and 2016 has $710 million of maturities at 5.8% average interest rate.
This morning we also gave FFO guidance for 2014 in the range of $3.50 to $3.60 per share.
That guidance assumes asset sales in the range of $225 million to $275 million and if those sales will occur in the first half of 2014.
The 2014 guidance also includes the dilution of $0.08 a share from those asset sales plus another $0.16 of dilution from the assets that we sold in 2013.
The above guidance range reflects same-center NOI growth of 3.75% to 4.25% and there’s no acquisitions after that guidance.
Looking at the quarterly split we’d expect the first quarter to be approximately 23% of the total second quarter also about 23% of the total third quarter about 25% and the remaining 29% in the fourth quarter at 2014.
We saw nice increase in tenant sales the portfolio mall tenant sales per foot were at $562 that’s up 8.7% from $517 at the end of 2012.
Strongest records for us in terms of sales for the year were Arizona and California.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Tom.
And welcome to this call.
First of all I’d like to go through and kind of recap the major accomplishments that we had in 2013 and then address some general industry issues that I know all of you are interested in and then we’ll open it up for Q&amp;A.
2013 was truly a transformational year for Macerich.
We gave guidance in the beginning of last year that we had an intent to significantly recycle out of some of our lower productivity lower growing assets and to take that capital and ultimately redeploy it into proven winners and great developments and redevelopment opportunities that we had within our portfolio.
We ended up having a terrific year with the disposition of 10 malls and one office related property.
The malls averaged about $340 a square foot and the sales generated almost $900 million of proceeds.
We are currently in the process of various stages of talks dispose another four or five assets weaker assets than the ones that we sold in 2013.
As Tom mentioned the range of sales proceeds that we would anticipate from that disposition process which we would expect to be completed in the early part of this year would be $225 million to $275 million give or take.
And the productivity of these centers are currently in discussions are lower than the ones that we sold in 2013 generally somewhere between $250 and $300 a square foot with one possible one in the mid $300 of square foot.
There was a major accomplishment during the year to accomplish a de-levering of the balance sheet through the dispositions and through the use of an equity offering at about $70 a share as part of our S&amp;P 500 inclusion that helped us to de-lever the balance sheet by over $1 billion.
As mentioned it was a great honor and accomplishment for the company to be admitted to the S&amp;P 500 during the year.
On the development front we had huge winners across the board.
At Tysons Corner we were successful in preleasing the office tower to a 70% level so that we are able to move forward with the development.
That development is moving along very well.
I will suggest that – weather has been quite an issue as we all know in the east coast both at Tysons and Niagara Falls but that development is moving along terrifically.
And again the densification of that property is going to have a terrific impact on the retail center.
During the course of the year we completed the total recycling of the department store line up at our Victor Valley Center and the Inland Empire.
JCPenney moved from a small 50 000 square foot store to a new 100 000 foot store late 2012.
Macy’s came as a new to market fashion anchor for that market in March of 2013.
And Dick’s which we find to be a great anchor for mid-market malls opened in November 2013.
As a result of that that particular center is one of our highest performing centers in terms of sales per square foot growth.
Most of you a lot of you visited or have before or after the grand opening of the tremendously successful fashion outlets of Chicago which opened in August of 2013.
Staying in Chicago we also had a terrific new anchor open up at our North Bridge Center Eataly.
They opened in December of 2013.
And by all accounts that particular Eataly could even be more successful than the New York one in any of that it’s been tremendously well received in the City of Chicago and it’s already generating significant new tenant interest for the North Bridge Mall which is what we anticipated.
During the course of the year we continue to clear the land for the expansion the 175 000 expansion of our very successful fashion outlets of Niagara Falls.
We were able to complete that and we have started the work on the expansion again weather has been quite an issue there as you can imagine.
We are currently 55% leased on the expansion and 81% committed.
The grand opening of the expansion itself is still a little bit up in the air.
So when you stop on it you’ll see that it is in the fourth quarter or early the first quarter of 2015 either fourth quarter of ‘14 first quarter of ‘15 all weather permitting.
Had we not had the weather issues which I don’t have to tell you all about it would have been likely November and we’ll see where we go with that.
We had a terrific year in terms of obtaining numerous entitlements in some sense governmental as well as other consents that were required for us to go ahead and move forward on the breaking of the ground for Broadway Plaza at Walnut Creek.
This is one of our great properties it’s anchored by Neiman Marcus a terrific Nordstrom store a top 20 Macy’s store in the United States and we think it’s going to go from being a very very nice boutique street-oriented type of retail center to a true super regional center and one of the three dominant centers in the Bay Area.
So it’s going to be a fabulous property.
We also as you can see in and are supplemented been refining our returns there and have even a more optimistic view points on our views there.
In Santa Monica we announced after many years of negotiations with the city just a couple of weeks ago that we’re going to be adding ArcLight Theater to the third level of Santa Monica Place.
ArcLight is the premiere movie experience – in Southern California.
And we think they will help generate at least 2 000 to 3 000 additional traffic body per year to that third level.
During the course of the year we were fortunate to be able to buy 20 acres of contiguous land to Green Acres Mall one of the acquired centers during the year.
And we are currently under way with the preleasing of that center and we anticipate very nice returns north of 10% when that is fully entitled and then get to open in about two years.
will be at Dick’s Sporting Goods plus a mega cinema complex which will be operated by Harkins Theater who’s the current dominant theater operator in that market.
At Cerritos we also announced two additional new anchors.
One is the remerchandising of the old Nordstrom store that had been relocated a couple of years ago to a brand new store.
That will be a theater Harkins.
And also we announced that Dick’s will be also occupying space there.
That’s targeted for fall of 2015 opening.
We’re proceeding very well on our planning for the complete re-merchandizing of Kings Plaza so we’re very very pleased with the development accomplishments as well as the development pipeline.
We’re very very bullish on the opportunity to essentially take the billion dollars of proceeds when you add up this year’s disposition proceeds roughly $1.3 to $1.4 of proceeds that will be generated through dispositions and redeploy it into a proven winning development pipeline here this year next year and the year after.
And the returns are going to be very very significant for the company for the foreseeable future.
Tom mentioned the operational achievements but just to summarize same-center NOIs came in at 4.1% which was an improvement of 110 basis points over the guidance that we gave at the beginning of the year releasing spreads were extremely strong.
FFO came in during 2013 $0.17 above our original guidance for the year and 11% over the previous year which we’re very pleased to have been able to accomplish that primarily driven by the increases in same-center NOI growth.
To be able to accomplish that even though we ended up at the high end of dilution based upon going to the high end of dispositions during the course of the year.
So in summary if you would have asked me in January of 2013 how I would feel about increasing our FFO that we achieved in 2012 which was $3.18 a share up to $3.55 a share for 2014 and along the way to de-lever and reload the balance sheet by over $1 billion to have disposed of 14 or 15 of our lower quality assets averaging just over between $320 $330 a square foot thereby the increase – the average sales per foot in our portfolio to something in excess of $570 a square foot and enable us to focus on proven winners fewer bigger assets in dense trade areas I would have said "Wow that would be a terrific year." And that’s what we accomplished.
And we’re very proud of that.
I’m not unaware though of the negative sentiment that weighs on the retail sector in general and that weighs on retailers as well as retail landlords.
So I do want to address a couple of issues on that point.
First of all as it relates to a lot of the talk over Black Friday Cyber Monday about the impact of online sales on brick and mortar sales I just want to remind you all that the online merchandizing channel that retailers are using today is essentially the catalogue channels that they used 10 15 20 years ago.
So hurrah for all the trees that we’re saving and hurrah for a new channel being developed that allows retailers to globally expand their businesses through e-Commerce and to expand and improve their profitability and to really create a seamless transition across all channels.
The dot com world and the catalogue world has been a source of great new retailers for our shopping centers both in the past as well as the future.
There are a number of retailers that were born in the catalogue world that now are some of our best in brick and mortar retailers there are Internet retailers that were born digitally that are now have great retail stores with us.
There are digital pure play retailers that never intended to have brick and mortar stores that have recently figured out that they need to have brick and mortar stores in order to really maximize their brand.
And then you have the manufacturer direct type of folks that really didn’t have to have a brick and mortar presence but elected to do so in order to create an opportunity for discovery for entertainment to create relationships with their shoppers and to actually feel the deal and make transactions.
So the retailers that really – Microsoft Samsung Sony and even now Tesla and other car dealerships that want to use showrooms and – in our malls is an emerging category that just proves the strength of the brick and mortar locations.
The best e-tailers are also the best retailers.
And for a retailer to have solely a brick and mortar platform they would not be strong and likewise retailers realize that they need multi-channel platforms both full priced stores off price channels their e-Commerce channels and now social media which they use tremendously to increase their brand.
A second issue that I know is – each time there is a hiccup at JCPenney and Sears obviously we catch a cold.
Over the past year we’re very pleased that through the dispositions that we’ve accomplished and the ones that are currently underway that we’ve gone from 78 to about 56 JCPenney and or Sears stores in our portfolio.
The stores that they’re occupying within our portfolio we have 18 centers in our portfolio that have both a JCPenney and a Sears most of those centers by the way have two or three other anchors in many other cases.
Those centers average $557 a square foot.
So those centers are very very strong centers.
We have 10 centers in our portfolio that have only a JCPenney.
Those centers average about $500 a square foot and includes centers like Queens Center Fashion Fair The Oaks and Valley River and others where there would be no issue replacing the merchant if you have to.
We have 10 centers where we have only a Sears store and not a JCPenney store.
Those centers also average an excess of $490 a square foot and they include centers like Kings Plaza or Cerritos Chandler Center La Cumbre Plaza in Santa Barbara all centers that we would have zero problem replacing that merchant if and when something were to happen there.
I would also note that we have 20 assets in the portfolio that have neither JCPenney or Sears.
And those assets in our portfolio generates 34% of our net operating income.
The third industry issue that I wanted to just touch upon and then we’ll open it up for Q&amp;A is sales.
Sales is something that I know you’re all are focused on.
Sales are very important because rent is absolutely a function of sales.
But when you’re operating at a very high sales level and when the merchants when they want to come into a market really don’t have any other opportunities to enter the market other than with you then you’re able to capture your market share and we’re able to do that at rents that are appropriate.
I pointed out I think in our last earnings call that even in 2008 and 2009 when we had major sales decreases we still generated very significant positive releasing spreads.
From 2009 year-end 2009 we had a $407 square foot average portfolio sales per foot.
At the end of 2013 we’re at $562 a square foot almost a 40% increase.
But when I look at that and obviously I work with our leasing teams we know that we have great demand for our spaces.
I would also point out that roughly two-thirds of our new leasing activity are renewals anyway.
And we only generally renew with merchants that are proven winners.
We took a look at our portfolio about a month ago and we said if you took a look at each of our top 20 centers and we have not run this for our bottom 30 centers but I think it’ll prove out the same and if you start with the premise that two-thirds of the stores that are there or belong there and probably a third of them over time probably belong to be replaced over a period of time.
And you take a look at the top two-third performers in each of our centers and you eliminate the bottom one-third the sales per foot of the top two-thirds in the top 20 centers that we own goes up 40%.
So for example in number 11 through 20 of our portfolio sales per foot would go from $632 a foot to almost $900 a foot for the top two-thirds of the merchants and the top 10 centers that we own sales per foot would go from just over $850 a square foot to something around $1 160 a foot if you eliminate the bottom third.
And that’s what we do day by day.
So when we look at it leasing strength and opportunities leasing is obviously a function of supply and demand there is no new supply coming into our markets.
There is increasing demand and the productivity of our centers gives us the opportunity to re-merchandize them with new emerging concepts are higher sales per foot than the slower sales tenants that we tend to replace and the two-thirds of the tenants that we renew every year they’re able to pay us ever increasing rents because of the ever increasing quality of the portfolio.
So with that I’d like to open it up for Q&amp;A.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question today is from Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Thank you good morning good afternoon.
After the disposition of the four to five assets in the first half of the year is this sort of focused disposition over with? Or do you have more assets that you’d like to call following those sales? It will be over with for this year.
We will be a – what I look at what we did in 2012 and 2013 and in the beginning of ‘14 I look at this as portfolio management and where we have the opportunity to recycle out of lower growing assets into higher growth and higher productivity centers we’re going to do it.
But after we complete the transactions that are currently underway we will time any future dispositions to coincide more coincidentally and directly with the reinvestment opportunities.
Okay.
And is it possible to get a geographical breakout of sales for the fourth quarter? We don’t have that at out finger tips here Craig.
I can circle back with you a bit.
As I mentioned the strongest locations were California and Arizona.
The east was relatively flat by comparison obviously weather had something to do with that.
And the central was okay but certainly not at the same level as Arizona and California.
And then if you had to guess what would you think the percentage of difference from weather related cause is impacting the east when you look at California.
You know that’s hard to say Craig.
Everybody blames the weather.
We just know it was certainly one of the worst winters in a long long time and had impact on a lot of people.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Moving on we’ll take a question from Rich Moore from RBC Capital.
Yes hi.
Good morning guys.
Anymore thoughts – you obviously – or you have a couple of expansions going in the outlet centers.
Any more thoughts on maybe new ground up project and outlets? Obviously they’re still very popular and much like online sales they’re popular too.
I’m just curious where you guys are with that.
There’s nothing to discuss on that at this point in time.
Okay.
But we’re open to – nothing to discuss.
Okay got you got you.
Thank you.
And then Tom a couple of items.
The higher recovery ratio for the quarter or...
Yes Rich I mean on that you know we just continue our move to convert every new lease we do to fix camp.
And that has the added benefit of improving our overall recovery rate.
Additionally as we are selling some of our lower quality assets they typically have a lower recovery rate as well.
So over all I know I gave you the same center calculation but overall you’re going to see our recovery rate go up.
If you looked at just the consolidated assets for example it’s at about 100% for the fourth quarter.
So we expect that to gradually continue as we continue to convert more leases from triple net to fixed CAM.
Okay good.
Thank you.
And then management company expense was also higher than fourth quarter last year as was G&amp;A so thoughts on those maybe? Yes Rich the run rate for the management company has been running $23 million to $24 million a year the full year each quarter.
So that’s a good run rate going forward.
I know it’s more than we saw last year in the fourth quarter which was unusually low.
But if you look at the first through the third quarter this year we were running $23 million to $24 million.
On the REIT G&amp;A we’re slightly higher in the fourth quarter because we had accruals [ph] for professional fees comp and a few other things that fell through the fourth quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Christy McElroy from Citi.
Hi good morning guys.
Art excuse me – I appreciate your comments on e-Commerce but just so you know we’re not receiving any trades [ph] yet I still got like 10 catalogues in my mailbox every day.
Just say no.
Regarding the four to five malls that you’re selling what would you pin cap rate on for the mid $300 small and then where do you see cap rates for the $250 and the $300 range malls? And then just regarding that $250 to $300 centers were those among the assets that you put on the market a year ago? I’m just trying to figure out is there’s a market for those types of assets now where there wasn’t before? Well we’ll see.
There is one asset in the grouping that is what most people would think of it as a B mall.
And it may or may not trade.
It’s in the mid-350s and that’s consistent with the cap rates that we were able to achieve on most of our transactions in 2013 which was generally low 7s to maybe mid 7s but more towards the low 7s.
The stuff that is – the other three or four centers tend to be more in the $250 per square foot zip code $250 to $275.
It remains to be seen whether they’ll trade.
I do think they may.
And we’ll see.
If they do trade we’ll certainly be able to address the cap rates.
If I had to guess what the blended cap rate of the four or five assets would be this year and let’s assume there was the $250 million of dispositions they would blend out to be around 9 and that’s a function of one of them being in a B mall and in the low to mid 7s and the others being C malls.
And they’re more double digit type of cap rates.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then in looking at your same-store NOI there’s a big chunk of sort of EBITDA from non-comparable centers.
Can you remind us what’s in that non-comparable bucket and what center should potentially be added to the same-store pool in 2014? Yes the non-comp Christy would include things like fashion outlets of Chicago any asset that wasn’t in both periods for the full period.
So FOC would not be in there Green Acres would not be in there.
Those are two of the bigger assets.
And then anything obviously that was disposed of during the year would come out of both periods for that calculation as well.
And what enters the pool next quarter? Just Green Acres? What new goes in next quarter? I don’t know that there’ll be anything new going in next quarter.
Okay.
FOC will not go in until the fourth quarter Green Acres will go in starting in the second quarter.
I don’t think there’s anything new that will go in in the first quarter.
And then did you disclose your growth in your sales per square foot the year-over-year growth on same – enter basis? Well as luck would have it I’m sure you can ascertain that from the supplement.
I think if you look at the pages that breakout the sales per foot page 14 would give you the portfolio totals there 562 versus 541 I think it’s roughly 3.9%.
And you have one asset there Christy Paradise Valley that went into redevelopment that’s not included.
If that were pulled out it would be about 3%.
Okay got you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is from Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Yes.
Hi guys.
Just going back to dispositions for a second.
I know that it sounds like you’re pretty settled at 250 and would tie future dispositions more specific to some investment activity but I’m just curious how many assets you’re actually marketing to get to the four to five and if the demand proves out to be better than you expect would you consider just selling more? No we would not like consider selling more.
And anything that is in our guidance is already in the market and may even be under contract various stages of conversations.
But there may be one other joint venture asset a joint venture partner.
It’s not that big may ask us to market in the middle part of the year.
But anything that is in the band of the $225 to $275 they’ve already been identified and they’re either under contract already or they’re very close to being under contract.
It’s an identified pool of assets.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I’ll just switch on the development side how much you guys expect to spend this year under your own pipeline [ph]? Yes.
It will probably between $200 and $300 in total including everything pipeline projects shallow pipeline projects and then miscellaneous projects that are smaller than that and not listed on the schedule.
Okay.
And just one last question just – in terms of just the sales environment which you addressed pretty necessarily [ph] there does seem to be some mismatch between sort of what the companies were expecting sell versus what they did whether it’s weather or otherwise any other reasons given the amount of preannouncements we’ve heard from folks I’m just curious if you think first quarter I can see that typically there’s a bit I mean do you think it will be – it will be worse than it’s been in the past two years? Are you talking about retail sales? Are you talking about that [ph] when you say preannouncements? Well retailers pre-announcing negatively and seemingly a little bit surprise by the sale environment.
I don’t see that impacting our occupancy at all.
Okay.
I mean these folks don’t make decisions to sign new leases based upon last weeks or last months or last quarters’ sales or even what they think next week or next month’s sales are going to be and likewise they’re all generally on long-term leases and they don’t have the option of leaving if they had a bad month.
No no no it was more a question about profitability maybe being down worse than expected and possibly leading to some additional closures and that kind of thing maybe not even from the public guys but form the guys that the other players out there.
But yes it sounds like you’re not really expecting any significant difference from the past few years.
No I’m not.
And this is going to be a joke.
It’s my understanding though that their profitability is up because of how well they’re doing online.
Okay.
That’s was a joke an attempt.
Thank you.
Next question.
We’ll take our next question from Alexander Goldfarb from Sandler O’Neill.
Good morning out there.
Hi Alex.
Hey I trust Santa Monica is a warm 80 degrees or so or are you guys having a chill as well? Yes down to 75 today.
Okay.
And the violins are out.
First opt Art if you take a look at your portfolio the top malls clearly were driving the sales growth and the bottom – the top 10 were – the bottom 44 were basically flat.
So you talked about as you went through the portfolio and called the bottom third of tenants and replace those that it would certainly enhance the mall growth.
What should we expect? Should we expect that the top 10 malls are going to continue to deliver growth and the bottom – the bottom 40 are just going to be as is or do you envision a way to sort of accelerate the growth? Basically is it easier to call – how easy is it to call the bottom third of the tenants at the bottom 40 malls versus at the top 10? Okay.
Well thank you.
That’s a good question.
I appreciate it.
If I take a look at – so I’m going to take out the top 10 centers they’re not in the pool anymore.
I’m going to take out the bottom 10 centers they’re not in the pool anymore.
And I just go from 11 through 40.
So from the 11th best center that we have to the 40th best center so that’s a pool of 30 malls.
Those malls average $525 a square foot.
And centers that are doing $525 a square foot that are of a nature such as Kings Plaza Burberry [ph] you can go through any part of the list from 11 through 40 and we have the demand for space in those centers.
So I can’t predict what sales are going to be in these centers.
I know that a lot of these centers were going up against tough years last year sales increases were relatively decent in 2012 fairly much across the Board.
But I can tell you that leasing demand in each of these categories has been very good and that we have had positive releasing spreads in every category.
And then again as I mentioned when you slice and dice that a little bit more and you go into any one of these centers and you take out the bottom third of the tenants and think about the – what the top two-thirds are doing that’s more than the stated number.
And these centers we’ve got very strong demand we’ve got good occupancy.
The occupancies are sitting right there in the supplement for the – basically for themselves.
And I anticipate continuing to have good demand in these centers.
The other thing and this is a nuance [ph] and I’m going to consider talking about it or disclosing it is that sometimes these numbers in here are anomalies because they’re comp sale tenants.
So you can have new tenants that come in and they’ve only been there for six months and they’re tearing the cover off the ball they don’t show up in any of our comp sales for almost 18 months to two years.
So when I look at our comp sales and then I look at our total center sales for our mall tenants a lot of times it’s – well it’s almost always two different numbers.
And the total sales are always much more positive than the comp sales.
And that’s strictly a logistical reporting system that we have.
And I’m going to consider beginning to talk about that because the comp sales that you see in these schedules and likely that you may see at other companies too they’re very trailing in terms of picking up new tenants that we’re adding.
And the new tenants that we add generally are doing a lot more than the tenants that we replaced.
Right.
But presumably the same impact to all the malls.
So at the end of the day you still have the top centers that are driving the growth whereas the bottom – the other 40 – – you’re right you’re right.
The second question is the assets – the four to five that you have that you’re marketing what was the comp sales for those assets? Flat to down a little bit.
Okay.
So from the – Okay so from – Probably flat [ph].
Okay.
If we look at one of your peers today it’s obviously getting hurt because of their blockbuster sales productivity.
Do you think at some point buyers of B malls do start give a flat sales somebody’s malls starts to impact their appeal or their view is that they can provide more attention more focus and therefore it’s sort of a relevant what the current sales trend are at the B malls that they’re looking to buy? I think it’s irrelevant.
I think that there’s couple of groups of B mall buyers there’s the private buying groups and that’s a substantial group.
Honestly they could care less about sales growth from what I can see.
They don’t look at numbers like that.
They look at what can my levered return be and what kind of remerchandising can I do.
And a lot of the B mall buyers are do have expertise in the big box arena and they’re able to think about things a little bit differently and think about the opportunities that can be created adding some non-traditional to a mall owner big boxes to a B mall center.
But I have not – I have not seen one buyer of any center that we have sold get preoccupied with the sales growth one way or another.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Alex.
And we’ll move on to Nathan Isbee from Stifel.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Hi Nathan.
Inc.</strong> Art from your perspective you elaborated on the whole e-commerce issue.
I’m just curious how you see the Omni channel [ph] retailing will impact the outlet-only retailers not those that have both full price and half price strategies? I’d have to go through and do a survey of how many outlet-only tenants there are I mean those are more just the pure manufacturers.
And I’m sure they have online distribution channels also.
But the vast majority of the retailers that we have been exposed to that are in the outlet centers that we’re involved with or that we would seek to be involved with are pure Omni channel [ph] retailers that are in all I’ll say four channels full-price half-price online and social media.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then on Tysons development as the leasing their progresses it gets closer to opening.
Can you just talk a little bit more in more detail what impact that we’ll have on the retail? How much growth incremental growth you think you could drive from the mall there? Sure.
We expect that the three towers when they’re open will bring between 3 000 and 5 000 people per day to Tysons Corner that are not there today.
And our experience is that when you – the closest analogy that I have to bringing 3 000 people a day to a site that formally were not there would be when we added a theatre to Tysons Corner and it’s one of the most successful theatres in United States the AMC there.
And when we added that we have brought tremendous new traffic and sales per foot in the center [ph] went up about $150 a foot.
Probably the more – when you have a center that’s already doing $700 $800 a square foot and doing almost $1 billion honestly doesn’t matter necessarily.
If the center goes up $100 a foot I doubt it.
But I do know and Bobby may want to elaborate on it that even before the densification is open for business and even before the rail is open for business the retailers have begun to pick up on the dramatic change that they expect as a consequence of the densification.
Do you want to talk to that Bob? Sure.
Obviously Tysons is one of the most productive centers and most important locations for retailers in the Washington D.C.
market.
So demand for space is always strong at the center.
Probably the most important addition from the mix use development that we’re seeing is greater demand from retailers to do these flagship stores.
We have two tenants who are signed and underway for flagship stores right at the entry and there’s two more that we’re working on.
So probably the biggest new ones that we’re seeing at Tysons is the demand for retailers to put in-stores that are more than their average stores but are really flagship stores.
And interestingly willing to step up and pay the rents required to accommodate those stores.
So it used to be that the larger tenants would seek lower rents and the opposite is really happening [ph] at Tysons.
In addition we’re adding to the food venue with the mix use and obviously the additional traffic.
So it’s a very logical next step when you look at the location within the center.
It’s really have spaces that are coming due over the next couple of years.
So it gives us the chance to really generate above average growth at the asset in the near-term.
Inc.</strong> All right thank you.
And then just finally at Santa Monica aside from the new theater deal any other changes coming down the pike at that asset [ph]? Santa Monica probably the theater is clearly the most important element as well as the rail which is coming to the property and the surrounding peripheral development which continues to get stronger.
What we’re seeing at Santa Monica is the luxury and designer tenants have very very strong performance on the ground floor.
So we’re actually going through and adding additional designer in luxury brands to the ground floor already replacing tenants that are good tenants but not necessarily doing the productivity needed on the ground floor.
So we’re sort of settling those tenants in on the second floor.
So you’re going to see the ground floor luxury and brands further develop.
The traditional mall and better specialty starts to be on the second level and the theatre will not only support the existing restaurant at third floor but allow us to bring in additional restaurants.
And continue to make a destination which as we look to distinguish ourselves from other retail venues clearly the entertainment restaurants outdoor environment are very important.
Inc.</strong> All right Thanks.
All right thank you.
I know we’ve still have several folks in the queue.
So I would request maybe that you try and limit your question to one question maybe two if you need to and I’ll try and keep my answers a little shorter.
Next question.
And that will come from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Hi good morning just one quick question.
I mean everything we have kind of seen out of the portfolio in all your plans everything just seems to be good and really really well right now.
Just curious one or two things that you’re may be concerned about over the next 6 to 12 months? Taxes.
Okay.
No actually I’m joking a little bit I’m not joking I mean taxes are real right? So when we think about the retail sales in 2013 across the Board and you look at the incremental Federal Income Tax bracket that the world got exposed to add to that the California Income Tax increases that got hit on the people out here and the tax bite is pretty significant.
So that is kind of an issue.
I guess the biggest thing that concerns me is that I think retail landlords are being more negatively than they deserve to be for an issue that I thought we had put to bed 15 years ago.
And that’s the interrelationship of online shopping and brick-and-mortar shopping but you know what? Over the next six months we’re going to address that as an industry.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks Tayo.
Moving on we’ll hear from Daniel Busch from Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Just going back to some of your comment on the two-thirds of the top tenants and the bottom one-third when I look at the top 10 centers and think about the 8% sales productivity growth do you have an idea on how much of that is true same store growth by those two-thirds? And then how much is from – moving from a lower productivity tenant and bringing in a higher productivity tenant? I don’t have an exactly number for you but intuitively I know that the good get better and the average get worst.
So typically the ones – the tenants that are producing they continue to produce.
And the ones that just have missed the market – they might be a good tenant but they may just be on the wrong – may not be right for that market.
And so that could be the reason that they’re not performing.
They tend to just kind of drag it down.
And that’s why when it come – when the opportunity presents itself you recycle them with somebody that’s more appropriate.
Okay.
It helps.
It is an interesting way to slice and dice these numbers I mean I’ve started doing it a couple of months ago because we intuitively said look why aren’t we interested of renewing two-thirds of the tenants anyway the top two-thirds.
So what’s the occupancy cost and what’s the sales productivity in those guys.
When we look through it we look at just our top 20 centers and it took our sales up by 40% and take our average cost of occupancy for the guys that would renew anyway [ph] from 13.5% to 10%.
And it just further validated that hey we still got plenty of runway here for growth.
And the real challenge is to make sure that you have good replacement tenants for the guys that you know or don’t belong there anymore weather their concept [ph] is dead or maybe they’re in the wrong location maybe they over expanded maybe they’re in the wrong sector any number of different things.
And along those lines so when you slice it like that going forward would you expect – would you expect more – the most of your re-leasing spread growth to come from the signing new leases with these underperformers going or away as opposed to the renewals from your better tenants? I don’t think so.
I think it’s both.
I mean the renewals are strong is my point because those tenants when you really look at them their cost of occupancy isn’t the mall cost of occupancy it’s less because they’re outperforming the mall.
And so they can afford to pay more.
They don’t love to pay more but they can and they do.
I think it’s both it’s both.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
No thanks Ed.
Our next question is from Linda Tsai from Barclays.
Good afternoon.
I’m looking at your sales per square foot property ranking and for the lowest group group five is a nominal contributor of NOI but it looks like it’s the only group that saw a decline on occupancy at the end of 2013 versus the prior year.
I’m just wondering what do you attribute this to? Is this a timing issue or is it reflective with leasing efforts because it’s not a big NOI contributor? Or do you think it says something about the consumer macro challenges facing these lower productivity malls? I think it’s a function but maybe of all of the above but most importantly it’s a function that when leases roll over in centers like this sometimes they’re not able to renew the leases with existing tenants because retailers attended to try concentrate their efforts on the A and the B mall locations of the world and kind of gravitate away from the lower productivity locations.
Thanks.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) We’ll take another question from Ki Bin Kim from Sun Trust.
Thank you.
So I think the most interesting things that today was – that two-thirds of the retailers on top 20 centers [ph] sales are up 40% which – No I said their sales are – wait a minute I said if you look at the top two-thirds of the tenants in our top 20 centers their sales per foot are 40% more than the sales per foot that we published for the entire mall.
That’s what I said.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
That makes much more sense.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
I could see where that would be confusing.
Okay.
Maybe along the similar lines which types of tenants are actually putting up from a apples-to-apples stand point much stronger same store sales growth than kind of your average portfolio tenant? And tie to that are you doing any kind of reverse inquiries into online retailers like I think it’s Brandy Melville that you have in Santa Monica place that are really highly successful and maybe trying to have them expand more into brick-and-mortar? Sure.
Bobby Perlmutter you want to – Sure.
This is Bobby Perlmutter.
Brandy Melville we actually opened in Corte Madera but it’s a great example of that.
In terms of categories that performed the best in 2013 probably the two best categories were home furnishings and jewelry.
Jewelry had a very very strong year after going through some fairly significant consolidation.
The third bucket that really does well is really brand specific.
And those are retailers that understand their customer and are doing a good job selling their product and differentiating their product in marketing to their customer.
And you see some promoter names like lululemon and Michael Kors in particular Kate Spade.
But we also see names like Victoria’s Secret having very very good success with Pink [ph] in extending – expanding their store base.
So in terms of categories I would probably identify jewelry and home furnishing and beyond that it’s more brand specific as supposed to category.
And the part on Brandy Melville sorry for taking a little more time.
I’m sorry what was the question about Brandy Melville in terms of will they expand? Well I mean have you guys started targeting more proactively a very successful online retailers or having them maybe try out store concepts they haven’t pursued in the past? Yes.
I mean again those retailers I’m thinking about it I think earlier it was mentioned Microsoft is an example of someone who is moving.
Athleta has been very aggressive starting as an online retailer Gap has other concept Piperlime that they’re looking at.
So more – [Inaudible].
Yes.
Is it Warby Parker the eyewear person they swore they would never open a brick-and-mortar store -- And then we’ll close with them.
Now they’re going to be opening.
Yes.
Yes.
So we think you’re going to see more of that.
[inaudible] Bosh and properties and other [ph] group that we’ve been able to do a couple of deals with that are new to the Brick and mortar [ph].
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Moving on we’ll hear from Michael Mueller from JP Morgan.
Hey Michael.
Yes hi.
Hey Art I know this is exactly what you said but going back to the idea that the bottom third of tenants could cycle out over time.
If we’re thinking about the normal $500 $550 a foot mall how big is the pool of tenants that usually draw from or draw from for a mall? So for example if you have 100 200 tenants in there how big is the pool that that draws from is it 400 deep 300 deep 500 deep? Well this is not a lot depends on the particular market.
Sort of example in our portfolio we have two centers one in Fresno and one in the modesto that are sort of in that range but have a very large paid area because there’s no alternatives in that market.
So even though they are larger and productive centers they’re truly the only game in town.
Other markets can be more fragmented or more deeply developed that the trade becomes more limited or more specialized in in terms of who they’re drawing.
So a lot depends on the competitive situation.
Okay.
But not talking about the shoppers coming in if we are just thinking about the pool of tenants [ph]? That’s what – Well yes they’re sort of related though.
How come? I mean depending on what shoppers we’re pulling and how many will also dictate how deep the tenant demand is and if the tenants don’t have alternative locations within the market and Queens is the classic example one of reason we’re able to drive very high rents and very high occupancy cost at Queens well in excess of the portfolio average is not always a productivity which is the measure that most people look at but a retailer has very few alternatives to cover the market they’re not in Queens.
In good centers the pool of tenant is virtually unlimited and that is proven out.
You take a look at our occupancies which we published by center and you’re going to see numbers above 90% for virtually every center that we have until you get down into the bottom 10 or 12 centers that we own.
What can happen and this particularly can happen in tend to be more the B malls is that as you’re cycling out of – maybe a B mall was built to be too big.
And so you got the unproductive tenants.
And maybe the pool in that town maybe it’s a smaller town has gotten to the point to where you have to think about other uses [ph] and that’s kind of what I was saying earlier is that I found that some of the B mall buyers have been really successful at introducing junior anchors into these malls that will pay decent rents and generate a lot of traffic.
And we have begun to do that ourselves so people like TJ Maxx Marshalls and [ph] folks like that that take up a lot of space that home goods TJ Max Home Goods [ph] that we didn’t use to leased space to in the malls usually in the B malls that’s where we’ll take.
And as we assimilate a group of unproductive tenants we’ll accumulate a block of space and re-merchandize it with the junior anchor [ph].
So the occupancies are all there to read by property.
But if it’s a good property it’s relatively unlimited.
The only thing that I would say is that over time you constantly have to re-imagine what you are doing in the way of a use.
So the theatre that we’re adding to cerritos for example part of the space that the theatre is going to occupy is an old Nordstrom store that was functionally obsolete that we replace as well as some mall shops that we always historically had trouble leasing we’ll demolish all that create a new Megaplex [ph] theatre and it will become a new anchor for the center.
So you are introducing new uses.
So the new uses really begin to – the number and the opportunities are unlimited.
Okay.
And just one other quick one is Estrella close to kicking off? No.
Okay.
We’ll kick it off when it’s ready.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just two quick ones first circling back to Tysons Art I think you mentioned that preleasing for the office remain at 70% at the end of the year.
I was just wondering what the leasing pipeline is like for the remaining space and maybe where you think you’ll be at opening? And I’m sort of curious about learners office development across the road there any concern that it will be a little bit more difficult to get the remainder of that space in your tower leased? No no no.
We’re very far long in the negotiations.
We’re basically leasing four floors right now.
We have one tenant that is either going to take two or three of the remaining six floors.
We got another guy that is going to take one of the remaining six floors.
So I fully anticipate that we’ll be way over 80% least on the opening.
Okay got it.
That’s helpful.
And then just one last question on investment I know you mentioned that guidance doesn’t include any acquisitions and there certainly been a lot of focus on this dispositions but I was just curious if you could maybe talk about the pipeline today for investments if there’s anything out there that you’re looking at and maybe any opportunities to buyout joint venture partners in ‘14? No I really – we have no guidance on any new acquisitions or buyout to partners for 2014.
We find that at this point in time these assets are so precious the ones that we want to own I mean look right now there’s probably 50 malls on the market and we got four or five of them on there but they’re not malls that we want to buy.
We made a conscious decision that we want to focus on fewer bigger assets in the select dense markets that we know really well.
And we find that that portfolio has got a huge reinvestment opportunity.
So when I think about the Sears stores or the Penny's Stores and I’m not throwing either one of them under the bus because the rest of the world already did that for all of us.
And if I’m going to make the assumption that one or either of them are going to either shrink or something else [ph] or consolidate or something else happen that creates massive opportunities for expansion within our existing portfolio.
I mean there are cases here where Sears may own a 20 acre parcel of land and a 300 000 foot building at Washington Square in Portland Oregon for example.
I mean that’s an unbelievable opportunity for reinvestment.
So we can’t find anywhere better frankly than our existing portfolio to put our money.
Should an opportunity arise we’ve always been opportunistically there to acquire.
We are very fortunate to be able to buy Kings and Green Acres 15 months ago.
And we’ve had great success with the centers that we have acquired but they’re really precious and they’re generally in very strong hands and I don’t expect them to become of the market.
So on a risk adjusted basis I can’t think of anywhere that is safer and more profitable than plowing money into proven winning locations like Tysons Corner Broadway Plaza Walnut Creek the expansion of Chicago the expansion of Scottsdale Fashion Square the expansion of Cerritos look at our pipeline the addition of a theatre to Santa Monica place they’re just isn’t a better smarter place for us to put our money on a risk adjusted basis.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll take a question from Caitlin Burrows from Goldman Sachs.
Hi we already kind of touch on this but would you say the interest of your malls that you plan to sell this year is in fact coming from private buyers? Those are the majority of the buyers yes but the major thing I would say is that the buying pool in general and I’m not talking about necessarily the properties that we’re looking at right now because we drop down with the exceptional one property in terms of quality level probably closer to the C category.
So it is a different pool of buyers.
But as I think about the type of assets that we sold last year the buying – number of buyers is greater today than it was a year ago and their appetite seems to be greater today than it was a year ago.
And I think that’s really just a function of the fact that they found out and figure it out that they can do really well with this.
And then I guess that sounds like – No go ahead.
I was going to say that the pool for those C properties then it’s probably not nearly as large [ph]? No I didn’t say that I said it’s a different pool.
And no it’s not as deep as big as well funded – it’s a different pool.
It’s a different pool but there’s plenty of capital out there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that’s all the time we have for questions today Mr.
Art Coppola I’ll turn the conference back over to you for additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you very much for joining us.
We’re really looking forward to a great year and looking forward to seeing you also.
Thank you very much.
And that does conclude our conference today.
Thank you all for your participation.
Please standby.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Macerich Company First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would -- all participants are in a listen-only mode.
The following presentation will conduct a Q&amp;A session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for question.
I would now like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded.
And I would like to turn the conference over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you everyone for joining us on our first quarter 2014 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainty and risk associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company’s press filing and SEC filings.
During this quarter we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the Investors section of the company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman; Tom O’Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Robert Perlmutter Executive Vice President Leasing; and John Perry Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Consistent with our past practice we will be limiting today's call to one hour if we run out of time and you still have questions please don't hesitate to call me or John Perry or Jean.
It was another strong quarter for us.
We executed on our plan to disclose non-core assets and we had a very good operating performance during the quarter.
Looking at the operating metrics we continue to see good fundamentals including leasing spreads which came in at 14.8% for the quarter and just to point out on that stat.
Those are cash basis rents for us.
They do not include straight lining of rents which would have the effect of widening that spread to something significantly greater than 14.8%.
Occupancy was came in very high at 95.1%.
That was up significantly from the 93.4% reported a year ago.
It is also important to note that we reduced our temporary occupancy as part of that statistic.
It’s down to 5.5% and that compared to 6.3% at March 31st of last year.
Year end it was 5.8%.
So down 20 basis points from year end and we will continue to focus on converting the temporary tenants from an occupancy as we typically see $20 to $25 a foot pickup when we do that.
Average base rents are getting very close to $50 a foot.
They came in at $49.21 that’s up 7.7% from a year ago and more importantly up 2.2% from 12/31/13.
FFO for the quarter was $0.81 per share that’s compared to $0.86 per share in the first quarter of last year.
We were within our guidance range which for the first quarter was $0.81 to $0.83.
Same-center NOI was 3.5% growth compared to year ago that increase was driven by occupancy gains positive releasing spreads and the annual CPI increases.
As mentioned in the earnings release this morning during the quarter we have higher than expected costs for snow removal and utilities as a result of the harsh winter weather conditions throughout much of the East and the Midwest.
We got about 45% of our portfolio that is in cold weather parts of the country.
Total incremental cost was $2.7 or $0.02 a share in terms of the FFO impact and about $1.7 million of those incremental costs negatively impacted the same-center pool.
So excluding those costs same-center NOI would have been closed to 4.5% growth.
As a result of those costs operating also declined to 64.9% including JVs at pro rata and that was down from about 66% a year ago.
Compared to the first quarter of ‘13 we had dilution from assets sales during the quarter of about $0.06 per share.
Most of that related assets sold in the second half of 2013.
Debt expense for the quarter was a modest $800 000 and that compared to $700 000 in the first quarter of last year.
During the quarter the average interest rate was up slightly at 4.2% compared to 4.13% in the first quarter of 2013.
The balance sheet continues to be in great shape.
At quarter end our balance sheet metrics included debt-to-market cap of 39% interest coverage ratio of 3.1 times debt-to-EBITDA on the forward basis of 7.2 times average debt maturities of 5.6 years and floating rate debt percentage of about 10%.
Also this morning's press release we reaffirmed our FFO guidance that range continues to be $3.50 to $3.60 a share.
And also I want to point out that our quarterly split remained unchanged.
We do give quarterly guidance and we break that FFO out.
First quarter 23% second quarter 23% and the total third quarter 25% and the fourth quarter 29%.
Looking at tenant sales the total portfolio mall tenant sales per foot came in at $565 for the year that's based on the portfolio we have at the end of the quarter and that compared to the portfolio we owned at March 31 2013 which had sales per foot of $535.
Looking on the same-center basis excluding the impact of dispositions sales per foot at March 31 of ‘14 were $565 and that compared to $560 for the same pool of assets at March 31 of ‘13 that same group of assets was $565 at year end.
So essentially flat compared to year end.
Looking at the regions Arizona Northern California were up slightly and the East and Central regions were down slightly for this portfolio.
And at this point I’d like to turn it over to Art.
Thanks Tom and welcome to our call.
I’m very pleased with our operating results for the quarter.
I’m very are pleased with our continued pruning of our portfolio.
As I look at the -- our disposition program over the last year we have successfully brought ourselves to a position where over 90% of our EBITDA is coming from centers that are doing over $600 square foot.
If we didn’t sell one more properly in our bottom 10 of our portfolio just simply executing on our redevelopment pipeline over the next two or three years is willing to bring our portion of NOI coming from centers that are doing over $600 a foot to something over 95%.
And obviously if we use future dispositions as a source of funding our redevelopment program we can get to our goal of getting to virtually 100% of our NOI coming from a quality centers.
We are going to be opportunistic on any future dispositions.
I want to make one correction on our last call I indicated that I felt that the average cap rate on the centers that we would be selling this year would be something close to 9%.
Having sold a couple of centers were sold in the first quarter and now when I look at what is likely in the possible disposition path that we are looking at right now I would say the average cap rate in terms of combined cap rate on this group of assets will likely be closer to 8% to 9%.
On the redevelopment pipeline itself we are very pleased at some recent developments that have taken place.
Tysons Corner continues to come online.
You can take a look at photographs.
I believe of Tysons Corner on the Tysons Corner website within the macerich.com website.
And the Plaza you can really begin to see the integration of the Plaza that we are building and how it’s going to connect to the metro rail and how it’s going to tie all of the towers together and really create a new 50-yard line at Tysons Corner.
As I have mentioned on previous call we finally beginning to see rate leasing momentum inside of the mall as the retailers are beginning to realize what a game changer this is.
Just last week I was up at Broadway Plaza and it’s really quite impressive.
Again I would encourage you to go to the Broadway Plaza property website and you can see that we have already demolished the 600 car parking deck that is located between Nordstrom and Macy's and we demolished about 85 000 square feet of shops space.
So that the entire area that sits Nordstrom and Macy's is now pretty much demolished and we will have the parking deck that we will be servicing Nordstrom primarily a new five-level deck we hope to have that open by the end of November.
And it’s really impressive to see the amount of land area that we are recapturing by taking this old one-level decks and replacing them with multi-level decks and of course that’s the way that we are able to take the gross leasable area and demolish 85 000 feet but bring a new 320 000 feet or so for net increase of just over 230 000 feet.
So very bullish on that and again if you can visit the area or just take a look at the photos on our website.
You can see how dramatic this is I mean we are literally tearing down 60% of the GLA of this center and 80% of the parking of the center and when we bring it back online over the next couple of years it is going to be a superpower house.
We had a milestone at Santa Monica Place and that we obtain city council approval for the addition of the ArcLight Theater that’s going to go on top of Bloomingdale's and service the third level of Santa Monica Place.
We are also selected as the exclusive developer to have exclusive negotiation with the city through potential build another ArcLight theater about a block away from Santa Monica Place where we have ownership of that and we will see that we believe very good returns and we think that bringing new theaters back to City of Santa Monica and predominantly at Santa Monica Place is going to drive a lot of traffic back to the hub of Santa Monica which is Santa Monica Place.
So over the past five years the city of Santa Monica has lost over 1.1 million theater goers per year due to the poor quality of the theater offerings that are currently in Santa Monica and bringing those theater goers back to Santa Monica Place primarily with the opening of our new theater there next year.
We expect great addition to our foot traffic and retention of customer at this stellar center.
As we look at our redevelopment pipeline we anticipate that over the next quarter or two we’ll be moving several of the shadow pipeline assets up into the in-progress group.
And we’re very pleased with all of our efforts there.
Two other items that I want to talk about before we open up the call for questions.
One it relates to the inter-relationship of our retailers dotcom efforts in their omni-channel strategies and their brick-and-mortar strategies.
And I know this always has been on the mind of many investors over the past six months.
All of us as landlords have been convinced that the omni-channel approach makes each of the channels more productive for retailers.
And with this purpose we will define omni-channel as being full price outlet and catalog and/or dotcom.
So we’ve been talking to a lot of retailers about how we can assist them in their omni-channel efforts and also just getting a better understanding so that we can give you more clarity in terms of what does their emphasis on their catalogs or the dotcom site mean to their brick-and-mortar strategies.
We were meeting the other day with one retailer who is upsizing their stores dramatically taking their stores from say 7 000 feet up to 40 000 or 50 000 square feet.
And this particular retailer said that one of the reasons that they did that is that their websites are really very two dimensional.
And it really doesn’t give the customer the opportunity to get a full appreciation for the product that they are offering.
And they found that when they build these bigger stores and they can put more SKUs into the stores that actually increases the sales of the items that they are able to put into the brick-and-mortar stores by 50% to 150% on their dotcom or their catalog side.
So that gives you further insight into the inter-relationships of the brick-and-mortar stores and the dotcom strategy.
They feed each other.
They supplement each other and it’s one of the things that’s driving many of our better retailers to seek out flagship stores.
As we see people like H&amp;M Forever 21 Zara Restoration Hardware just to name a few as they are top shop.
As they are building out their flagship stores a lot of this is -- and they are building them predominantly in either A malls or A street locations.
It’s really to further their brand recognition as well as to just make their entire omni-channel strategy drive more retail sales.
The final thing I want to talk about before we open it up for questions is releasing spreads and why it is that we are so confident that we can maintain strong releasing spreads even in a flat sales environment.
On the last call I made reference to the fact that we are taking a look at our top 20 centers.
And within our top 20 centers if we take a look at only the top two-thirds of our tenant within our top 20 centers that we found that those tenants tended to do about 40% more than the mall average.
So I mentioned for example in our top 10 centers that currently average $855 a square foot.
If we take the top two-thirds and that’s just by headcount if you have nine shoe stores you take the top six.
If you have three jewelry stores you take the top two.
If you have 12 apparel stores you take the top eight that type of thing.
If you take a look at our top 10 centers you find that the top two-thirds of our tenants do 38% more than the average.
They tend to about three times as much business as the bottom one-third.
And we found as we were through our entire listing of 52 malls that we currently own that that really holds true in every single center that we own.
On average the top two-thirds of our tenants do 41% more than the mall average.
So currently we have mall average of $565 of square foot for our 52 malls.
The top two-thirds of our tenants within that group -- within all of our malls average almost $800 of square foot.
And so the challenge for us is to -- and the business that we are in is to take advantage of the creation of new retail concepts and to target those tenants that are not doing the average mall sales per square foot.
And to replace them with new concepts whether the new concept be a new retailer or it could be the expansion of an existing retailer that’s looking for flagship store.
It’s fascinating.
As I look at our bottom 10 centers that averaged $295 a square foot within that grouping the top two thirds of the tenants within that grouping do over $422 a square foot.
So again the opportunity there is to take the unproductive tenants and to replace them either with new retail concepts or in those type of centers maybe either to introduce junior anchor such as TJ Maxx Marshalls Ross people like that.
So we have great confidence that with the quality of our portfolio and the strength of the locations that we have and when you look at the density that we have in each of our submarkets the high barriers-to-entry that we have in each of our submarkets the strength of the law of supply and demand where we have basically the only choice that the tenant wants to be in our market.
And you have increasing demand from the tenants that we are going to be able to continue to put up strong releasing spreads as we have over our entire 20-year public history and even stronger spreads in the future when we move to a position where well over 95% of our income will be coming from centers that are clearly A or A plus malls.
And with that I would like to open it up to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Alexander Goldfarb from Sandler O’Neill.
Go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Hey good morning out there.
Just a few questions here.
First of all Art you guys have outlined the dispositions and the impact that it had on sales productivity.
But can you sort of give some framework around how it has improved cash flow or releasing spreads just something quantifiable that we would see over the next few quarters or next year or two where we would see it come into the numbers the improvements that you guys have made to the portfolio by selling the lesser productive assets? Well it is going to come in two forms and look this is a marathon not a sprint.
So it’s not going to show up necessarily in this quarter or next.
But look the long-term goal was to take in recycle well over $1 billion of assets that we’re doing $320 $330 a foot and to recycle that cash into proven winners and that’s currently being done in our redevelopment pipeline which is identified in our supplement.
So that will show up as we bring those projects online.
We also have talked about the fact that in previous calls that a year ago if you look at our top 40 malls and you compare that to the 25 malls that were behind them that the growth rates over the last five years the same center growth rates in the top 40 malls was significantly higher than the bottom 25.
And we have already disposed them -- let’s say 15 of those have bottom 25.
And we think that that is going through definitely just -- we are going to have addition by subtraction by taking away some of the centers that had either slower or flat or negative growth rates which was the profile of the bottom 25 and having more focus for our management team to focus on our better centers and really having a better and a stronger landlord-tenant conversation or when you are sitting down with the tenant virtually every store that they have with you is a winner.
It just puts you in a stronger position.
So look at this point I could say we are going to just have to let time prove out the thesis.
But we know that there is zero question that recycling over a $1 billion of capital that was sitting in centers doing $320 a foot and pushing it into centers that are doing 700 to 800 900 dollars of square foot.
That by itself is going to lead to very powerful results.
And time will prove the thesis and we are just going to have to -- we're certain that it wasn’t the right thing to do.
And we’ll have to prove it out overtime.
Okay.
And then as far as further dispositions I mean it seems like everyone is now jumping into the fashionable trend of disposing the lower tier malls.
But doesn't sound like from your comments that pricing has been impacted.
So are you seeing more buyers coming out of the woodwork or are you seeing the existing cash -- usual suspects just increasing their appetite to just buy more of the malls that are on the market? There’s definitely more buyers today than a year ago.
There is more buyers today than three months ago and their appetite I believe are much bigger than they were three months ago or a year ago.
And I think look part of that was a function of the fact that they realized that just because you call it a B mall doesn’t mean that this doesn’t have a reason to B to live.
And they realized that if they are focused on that type of product then they can obtain good results.
There is some proven operators out there that have done pretty well in terms of their leasing of B mall type of portfolios.
And look with the appetite as I see it is much bigger than it was three months maybe even six months ago of the existing pool of buyers.
And hypothetically they are at least one or two new buyers that are going to be coming out here soon that may end up wanting to add to their portfolios.
I think the market is only going to warm up over the next year.
But we had already decided when we gave guidance this year that we had pretty accomplished what we wanted to accomplish with our disposition program.
And then we sold off a couple of more centers here in this quarter.
This year's disposition target guidance is pretty modest at $250 million and we are going to be -- we've heard from investors that they would prefer a see us try and time our dispositions with reinvestment opportunities and so I think we are going to be listening to that.
But the market is clearly warmer today than it was three months ago and harder than a year ago.
I mean a year ago it was more of a hypothetical as to what how deep the market was.
But there are clearly platforms that are trying to be formed or have already been formed.
And just finally Tom did you mention Victor Valley are you going to refi that or pay it off when it comes due later this year? I mean that’s opened but certainly it’s a refi candidate and the centers done well and so we will probably be refinancing it.
Floating or fixed? Our preference is fixed long-term fixed and the rates are still extremely attractive and the tenure has hung in there.
It bounces between 260 and 280 and there is certainly a fair amount of both life company and CMBS debt out there.
So it's still a great time to be a borrower if we go fixed and long.
If we talk about turning B malls and A malls if you just look at the two-dimensional number of sales per square foot you could argue that that’s what we did in Victor Valley over the past several years.
We have two brand new department stores.
We have -- one of them being a brand new expanded JCPenney which is doing very well.
We have a brand new Macy's at every place that had replaced the Bacon department store and then we have a brand new Dick's Sporting Goods that replaced the old smaller 50 000 foot JCPenney.
And as a consequence of that on a sales per foot of that center are now in the excess of $500 of square foot and we are showing strong sales growth trends there and strong income growth and so it looks and feels great.
So that’s an example of it.
But was probably a small market tertiary market or secondary market but it’s within the greater sort of California area and we could argue that was an example of taking a B mall and turning it into an A mall.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Christy McElroy from Citi.
Hi Christie.
Hi good morning to you guys.
Art I just wanted to follow up on your comment about the average cap rate of the sales being closer to 8% than 9%.
I think you talked about selling four to five malls.
You've sold three so far.
I'm sure you can appreciate sort of our willingness or desire to get a sense for sort of the valuation split between B and C.
I think you talked about one of those four to five being a B mall.
So I am -- can you disclose the cap rate on the assets that you've sold or maybe an average of the three and talk about maybe the split there in that 8%? Well the ones that have been sold today were clearly C malls.
Right.
And frankly at this point in time I could argue that we have no more C malls.
So anything that would be sold from this point forward in my view I would consider it to be a B mall.
And the cap rates on C malls you can’t really peg them.
They are really hard to think.
On going forward 2014 numbers look they were clearly double digits in the low teens but they were small centers that were going in the wrong direction.
And they were bought by opportunistic people who have a plan to turn them around.
The remaining one or two or three and I don’t know how many it will be centers that will sell that gets within that guidance range will likely command cap rates that are closer to the cap rates on the centers that we sold last year which is closer to the low 7s to the mid7s.
So that’s why I was modifying our guidance here to say that the combined cap rates for the dispositions this year is probably going to be closer to 8 and the 9 that I indicated in our last call.
The C malls it’s really hard to peg -- Tom what was the average sales per foot on the centers that we sold? It was in the low 200s Art.
And we’ve kind of broken it out in the supplement on Page 14.
The three that we sold this year with the average 244 a foot.
And they were all C malls.
And they were all over 10% type of cap rates and they all had income that was declining.
So it’s hard to say what that number is.
But we think that the B mall market is north of $300 a foot mid 300s that type of thing.
But there is still strong appetite for this type of centers.
And that strong appetite that you mentioned is what caused you to revise that number down from the 8% to 9% it is not a function of the mix of assets that you are selling? It’s really just a recalculation frankly of looking at what got sold and looking at what we are talking about during now and just looking at the reality of what I now see.
Okay.
And then on Kings Plaza your sales are down about 7% year-over-year.
How much of that decline was weather-related versus the major remerchandising effort that you have got going on there? This is Bob Perlmutter.
It was probably a combination of all those things.
Clearly if you look at the detail of the East Coast centers were impacted by the weather but we also like you say have a lot of moving pieces including a lot of new leases that are getting signed and a renovation in process.
So that asset is probably likely to be impacted a little bit by all those items and fluctuate a little bit more over the next 12 to 24 months.
And those new leases are those lower productivity which is impacting the average? No the new leases won't go into the comp sales until they’ve been open for year and actually many of the tenants will have the opportunities to significantly improve the productivity.
People like Michael Kors and Fossil some of the higher productivity tenants that are coming into the center.
Thank you so much guys.
Thanks Christine.
And our next question comes from Paul Morgan from MLV.
Go ahead sir.
Hi.
Good morning.
Art you mentioned kind of upsizing stores that we view it as strategic to have bigger stores.
What’s your experience been in terms of the rents per foot you can get because you might think the opposite that it is better to have smaller stores because smaller stores usually pay higher rents since you'd rather have 10 small stores paying higher rents unless you are getting the same types of big rents from bigger boxes and what’s your experience been when you have had those upsized stores? It depends on the center.
So if it’s center that’s $300 a foot and you are adding a junior anchor chances are you are going to -- your rents are going to go down a little bit but you pick it up with the occupancy gains.
But given that that’s not really what we own anymore and give them our top 40 centers now and producing over $600 of square foot.
We consider them all to be A centers.
What happens in those centers and particularly as you go up the quality spectrum and you get up into the top 20 centers.
When a tenant comes to us part of the strong omni-channel retailer strategies is to have kind of hub and spoke type of retail brick and mortar locations.
So they like to have sometimes a big store in a great location and there maybe a few other smaller stores in other locations in the market.
So if you happen to own the best location in a given market which we do in quite a few markets and they come to us and they say look we are interested in taking and building a flagship store.
What the answer is that from a supply viewpoint that’s very hard to create.
And you have to assemble spaces to create that and we’ve actually had experiences that when tenants come to us and they would normally be a 10 000 to 12 000 foot tenant and they say that they want a 20 000 foot flagship store.
We’ve had experiences that we can get more rent per foot for the bigger store than for the more typical store.
And it’s just because of the law of supply and demand.
We cannot create in a center 20 000 foot stores.
That would take away from the comparison shopping and the experience that shoppers expect.
So when retailers ask us to do something or to create a space that is highly unusual and it happens to be in a great center which is exactly where these flagship stores want to be located.
We found that from a pricing discussion that we actually can get more rent per foot than for their more typical stores.
Paul this is Bob Perlmutter.
One of the other effects of doing these flagship stores is very often it allows us to move the retailers that are there in these areas were doing well into lesser areas of the centers.
So there is sort of related affect that we are accumulating the space.
We are able in many cases to get a premium for the accumulation but we are also retaining the tenants are there albeit at lesser location than the center which also helps drive rents.
Yes sure.
And then my other question is just on the bankruptcies and kind of the state of your tenant watch list.
We've had obviously a little bit of a tick up year-to-date off a very low level.
And I am just wondering your thinking -- given what you said about the disparity between productivity within the mall I mean could it maybe be beneficial that you are weeding out some of the underperformers that you normally see more of than we have in the past couple of years? What’s your view on the net from the store closings year to date? Well I think your comment is right in the sense that it’s a little bit more active than it’s been in past years albeit past years have been extremely low level.
So we are probably getting closer to normalized level.
I think the second thought is this is something that goes in the retail business in the mall business for the last 20 years in terms of tenants growing and expanding and then contracting.
So there is a constant rollover which provides us opportunities to bring in more productive tenants.
I think the other point is we’ve been -- many of these bankruptcies like a Coldwater Creek have been evident for a number of years.
And so we look at Coldwater as potential opportunity.
They are generally better locations and are best centers with moderate rents.
I think their average fixed minimum rent with us is $36 so that presents an opportunity.
My only point here is we have been thinking about this for the last two years.
This really isn’t new news and we have been both reducing our count with them as well as trying to line up deals on the belief that they would have actually go bankrupt.
So the closings year-to-date hasn't had any impact on kind of what you think you are going to be from a same-store and occupancy perspective in the year? I think it’s all been factored into our guidance.
No again these aren’t surprises when you look at Brookstone and Coldwater Creek and Sbarro and some of the others certainly not unexpected we have been planning for it and even counting on it frankly.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jim Sullivan from Cowen Group.
Go ahead.
Thank you.
Art you talked about the lower cap rate on the dispositions.
Is there any change in your timing? I recall in the fourth quarter call you talked about the dispositions being front-end loaded.
Is it still front-end loaded or will they be spread a little bit more over the balance of the year? At this point in time we obviously have some front-end loaded dispositions on the two that were sold but those were small deals.
It’s hard to predict exactly when balance of the dispositions will happen.
Frankly we have a deal on the contract that fell out of contract and that was what was causing us to talk about it being front-end loaded.
So now it’s hard to predict buyer’s behavior and we can’t control our buyers’ behavior.
I am convinced that we will sell $250 million or so of assets this year but it would be hard for to be front-end loaded now given that there is nothing under contract at this point in time.
So it’s going to be more loaded towards the mid to the latter part of the year at this point in time.
Okay.
In your development schedule also this quarter you raised the yield -- increased the yield on a Niagara outlet expansion.
I just wonder if you could talk about what was driving that.
I think the costs actually were increased a little bit so presumably it reflects demand in pricing.
I wonder if you could talk about that as well as the prospects for other expansions at any of the other outlet center projects in the portfolio? It was just a recalculation of what we saw the return to be based upon the rents that we are getting and we lease it down into a pro forma.
We think that we are getting -- it’s going to cost us X dollars to build it.
We are going to get Y dollars in rent So weather did drive up the cost a little bit but the rents that we are getting are better than what we had put into our original pro forma.
So this is just simple recalculation.
As far as Fashion Outlets of Chicago it’s doing great.
If we could expand it we would have demand to expand it but at this point in time there are no plans or even obvious opportunities to do any expansions.
We are looking at potential other outlet opportunities around the country that are similar in nature to Fashion Out of Chicago in terms of their urbanity and density of population.
And so it’s possible that during the course of this year that we will be making an announcement that we’ve identified an opportunity or two.
Okay.
And then final question for me in terms of Santa Monica Place sales productivity there has been increasing nicely over the last several quarters and you have the theater coming.
Can you just remind us -- I know that the occupancy has declined from year end 2012 I think by about 400 basis points or so and there has been a little more turnover in the upper levels of that center.
Can you just remind us the theater will be cutting in at the third level I understand and is that where the vacancy is and how optimistic -- well not how optimistic but when you think about the tenant mix on the third level do you expect it to change in any material way from how you originally conceived it when you opened this theater? So no where the theater is going we never included it as vacant space.
It was -- it is the third level of an old Macy’s building and it was roughly 50 000 feet.
So when we redid the center we convinced Macy’s to convert their 3 level Macy’s building to a 2 level Bloomingdale’s building and the theater is simply going into the -- what used to be the 3rd level of Macy’s and it’s really space that if you walk the center you really wouldn’t know it was even there.
Whatever occupancy changes or reductions that you would see in our disclosures that would be likely the result of the fact that we are in a second generation of releasing Santa Monica Place now which is extremely early.
Usually when you build a new center it takes just 7 to 10 years to be able us to move into a second generation of re-leasing opportunities.
But when we leased Santa Monica Place it was spring of 2009 it was the worst time possible to be leasing it and we weren’t able to get as many upscale or branded or luxury retailers as the market deserves.
And so what we are doing right now is we are recycling tenants that probably shouldn’t have been there long-term anyway with more appropriate tenants.
Do you want to talk a little bit further about the re-letting of that and the impact of the theater on the 3rd level Bob? Yes I mean Jim to your question about the 3rd level the 3rd level has obviously been designed and merchandised for food uses.
And so that having the theater up on the third level is obviously going to have a materially beneficial impact in bringing traffic to that 3rd level.
It really allows us to do two things and allows us to generate more business for the existing food users are there but it also allows us to bring in new food users and upgrade the quality and bring in what we believe will be some high volume users.
So I would say before the end of the year you are going to hear a couple of announcements with some new restaurants up there that who is interested is directly related to the fact that there is going to be start of the art theater in a market that is desperately in need of a quality theater operation.
And you are going to see continued announcements of new upscale branded retailers so they are going to be coming into the sector.
Yes best the best example we recently signed a lease with DPF to come into the center which would be new to the market and you will continue to see the luxury build on the lower level and the traditional specialty mall tenants on the second level.
Good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon.
Good morning to you.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Art I guess as you consider the projects you are moving from your shadow pipeline to the in-progress can you provide an update on Green Acres? Were you looking at a big box center and as part of that can you talk about how you are thinking about traditional versus fast fashion retailers when you think about filling the big-box space? I see the pre-leasing of the 20 acres of land that we have at Green Acres it’s coming along extremely well.
We are really in the entitlement trades there right now.
We do have retailer we are expanding H&amp;M there Bob.
That’s not on the 20 acres so that’s on the mall.
So there is two things that are happening.
One we are taking that the 20 acres that we bought and we are in the middle of getting entitlements to populate it with traditional bog box uses and including potentially a new theater.
The Green Acres is an interesting center.
If you look at simply the sales per square foot which again can be a two dimensional number it does $541 a foot.
You look the top two-thirds of the tenants at Green Acres mall they do $750 a square foot.
So there is an opportunity there to recycle within the mall so out some of the lower productive tenants and bring in some more productive tenants.
So right now we are in the entitlement phase.
If we have the entitlements at Green Acres to do the -- to build out the 20 acre expansion site will be under construction today.
We are getting those entitlements and the other thing that we are working on is the remerchandising of the mall itself.
So again one thing I’ll point out about Green Acres is that it does $541 a foot which is an impressive number.
But the more impressive number to me is the fact that the retail that sits on the site that we own today does over $800 million.
When we finish this expansion that we’re going to do it’s not inconceivable that this property will generate $1 billion of sales that would put it on par with Tysons Corner in terms of the sales that have been generated from the property.
So we see this has a great opportunity for us and the only thing that’s holding back the big box build-out on the 20 acres right now is the entitlements.
Do you want to add anything to that Bob? Yeah.
Just a comment about -- that you asked about inside the mall the fast fashion.
As an example we recently signed a lease with H&amp;M who is an existing tenant almost double the size of their space to go from about 12 000 to 22 000 feet.
And we see additional opportunities like that within the mall.
One of the interesting things about the H&amp;M deal is they’re actually going to do an interior and an exterior entrance which has been one of our goals to have more exterior pace in retail and take advantage of the traffic not only within the mall but on the entire site.
And then secondly the demand on the 20 acres from the big box tenants has been very strong and the rental levels are very strong which has been reflected in the returns on the development.
Okay.
So you certainly sound pretty enthusiastic and optimistic for the outlook.
Is it conceivable to think that this could be a top 10 maybe top 20 but maybe a top 10 mall in terms of productivity in your portfolio? (Indiscernible) but again that’s kind of work I was touching upon.
It will clearly be a top 10 center in terms of the retail sales that are generated from that site.
It’s hard to imagine that it would be a top 10 center in terms of sales per square foot which really is something that I need to point out to you is that the sales per square foot numbers that you hear from landlords are little bit too dimensional.
You have to drill down further to really understand what it all means.
And at $541 a square foot that’s a good solid number.
But when we looked at it as we’re buying it we said wait a minute this thing is doing over $800 billion of business that’s a massive retail complex.
And when we get down with the expansion here and the remerchandising of the center it is not inconceivable that it will be doing $1 billion of business which clearly would be one of our top 10 centers in terms of total dollars that are generated in and that plays into the leasing.
I mean when retailers realize the volumes that have been done by other retailers it creates interest and they don’t really look at the ales per square foot of the itself when we’re leasing space to them.
They look at an examples of other peer retailers or is just opportunity that they think that they can fill? Again the pre-leasing that we’ve got on the 20 acres is coming on very very strong.
We’ve home good users sporting goods users furniture users several restaurant users and we think it’s a hidden opportunity.
We were able to buy the 20 acres while we were under contract to buy the mall and as you can from the returns of the shadow pipeline its going to be a very attractive addition and we think it will -- its going to just bring traffic to the site that will make the mall better also.
A couple more quick ones here.
Just curious you talked a bit about your tenant percentage.
Did you guys ever discuss or can you discuss what your target tenant percentage is and assuming the elevated levels go down once Broadway Plaza is completed? The historical number was close to 2% to 3% to say 2.5% that got elevated as we went through the recession and we are just pushing occupancy rather than rate or quality of the occupancy.
So we think we get down to that level 5.5% that gives this another 300 basis points over the next few years to convert that to the higher quality occupancy and pickup the incremental rent which as I said we think on average can be as much as $20 to $25 a foot.
Okay.
And then on Estrella Falls the completion timing slipped a bit.
Can you talk about that? The Phoenix market is clearly recovering.
I met a Board at this morning that it was the number one city in the United States for job creation in the finance category last year.
Population growth is coming.
But look there’s going to be a one more full price regional mall build in the Phoenix Metroplex over the next five to eight years.
It’s going to be in West Phoenix.
It is our belief.
We are on the site and there is just no reason to build it before we feel that we have a strong tailwind.
And at this point in time we don't feel a strong tailwind at that particular location.
There are -- Phoenix coming back significantly in different areas in different submarket that particular submarket has not come back with enough strength to give us the rent levels that we would like to get and so we have no rush to do anything there.
Great.
Thank you guys.
And our next call comes from Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Go ahead sir.
Hello Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning out there.
Just first question on guidance.
Apologies if I missed this.
So you maintained FFO guidance for the year but I was just wondering if you mentioned or maintained your same-store NOI growth forecast 3.75% to 4.25% just given the 100 basis point drag on the same-store from the weather and if so what is the offset to that? Well again its one quarter.
We don’t expect the polar vortex to affect us negatively as we move forward through the rest of the year so we view that as kind of a one time bump.
So I mean absent that we were running closer to the mid 4s which is at or above our guidance rate.
So we are still comfortable at that same-center NOI guidance for the year.
Okay.
And then how do you think about these costs going forward with new leases that you sign? I know it is like you said just one quarter I guess the fourth quarter last year was also a bit elevated but how are those elevated costs overall factored into that CAM pool that you will build into new leases? Are they considered abnormal at all or one-time in nature? Do you sort of smooth them out using a two or three-year figure? How does that work? Well typically on a CAM quote we gives ourselves couple of dollars of margins there.
I think that’s consistent within the industry as we as an industry shifted away from triple net leases to fixed CAM.
We believe we can control cost but obviously some cost such as utilities and snow removal as proved out this winter are 100% controllable.
So there's always a little bit of cushion in that CAM quote and its considered as you quote CAM numbers to tenants as we go forward.
Okay.
There’s a still healthy recovery rate our recovery rate is still in excess of 100% and that’s because we do quote a little cushion in the CAM number.
Okay.
And then just last question I think I heard you mention that there maybe two new entrants into the B mall segment of the market that might emerge? Are these buyers that are as you say they are planning to own and operate portfolios or are they financial buyers that might look to partner up with an operator? Well.
I mean one of the obvious ones that I can predict what they’re going to do is the spinco off of Simon Property Group.
I mean who knows what they’re going to do.
With an investment grade rating they would have the ability to be a very aggressive consolidator if they wanted to be once they get up and running.
So I can’t predict to what they are going to do or I don’t know what they’re going to do but they could clearly be our new player.
And there are other private new players that are forming platforms that are new platforms that don’t currently exist that our seeking to buy some B malls.
So it’s just the depth and the breadth of the pool and the appetite of the pool.
It is just much greater than it was a year ago.
And it’s really for good reasons.
I mean there is money to be made here in this category of asset.
And particularly if you have a management team that has got folks on it but have deep relationships in the big-box category killer power center type of backgrounds or community center backgrounds because one of the opportunities in this B malls is to introduce elements that you would normally find any community center or power center.
Remember that number that I put out there our bottom 10 properties average say $295 a foot.
But embedded within that $295 a foot top two-thirds of the tenants within the bottom 10 properties that we own that average $295 a foot.
The top two-thirds do over $422 a foot.
So one of the opportunities for B mall buyer or some of those properties and we’ve seen this happened might be to eat up some of the vacancy and bring in new junior anchors to those types of properties.
I mean many of them are very viable properties.
Okay.
Thank you.
It looks like we’ve got time for one more question.
And our last question comes from DJ Busch from Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Just one quick question for Tom.
I was hoping you could provide a little more color on the current financing environment with regards to the appetite for movie goers and pricing spreads between some of the top centers and perhaps the lower productivity centers and some of those that you are trying to dispose of? I can certainly comment on the top quality centers.
We recently were out and evaluating getting bids on Biltmore which is a good A quality center.
And it was a pretty competitive bidding process and interestingly it was the life companies very very competitive for A quality space with the CMBS lenders and in fact the life companies were 10 to 20 basis point sharper than the CMBS shops.
And very competitive at rates for 10-year money in the low 4s.
Although we haven’t been out financing any lower quality assets what I’m hearing from the CMBS shops is they are all active.
They’re putting pools together.
They are aggressive and they are definitely financing B-quality assets.
And there doesn’t seem to be any shortage of capacity right now from what we’re seeing.
And just to add on to that.
We tend to keep the properties that we’re going to sell.
We try and keep them unencumbered.
So that a buyer who may have an appetite for high leverage which that’s generally the profile of the private equity type of buyers that are out there that they can have an opportunity to take the unencumbered asset and to leverage it up to the max which generates better pricing for us.
So over half of our bottom 10 assets are unencumbered.
And we have found that buyers prefer to put their own financing on properties than to inherit some of the finance that you might have.
So I’m sure that we’ll tend to keep assets that we think our future dispositions candidates unencumbered.
Okay thank you.
All right well thank you everybody.
We look forward to continuing to report to you during the balance of the year and seeing you at upcoming events.
Thank you very much.
And this concludes today’s conference today call today.
And I thank you for your participation.
And have a great day.
Welcome to The Macerich Company First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded and would now like to turn the conference over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on our first quarter 2015 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risk associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company’s press release and SEC filings.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the Investors section of the company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman; Tom O'Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Robert Perlmutter Executive Vice President Leasing; and John Perry Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Consistent with past practice we’ll be limiting this call to one hour.
If we run out of time and you still have questions please do not hesitate to call me or John Perry or Jean Wood.
It was another very strong quarter.
We are now really starting to see the benefit in our operating results of all the major portfolio transformations that we’ve been through the past two years including the sale of 15 malls and the redeployment of the capital in a more productive faster-growing assets.
Leasing spreads were good again this quarter.
We signed 321 000 square feet of leases positive re-leasing spread of 21% over the trailing 12 months mall occupancy at a high level at 95.4% which was up 30 basis points compared to March 31 of last year.
And looking at the temporary occupancy we continue to reduce that that was 5.2% compared to 5.5% at March 31 of last year.
We’ll continue to focus on that area which we continue to see the potential to grow NOI as a result of converting that temporary occupancy to permanent occupancy.
Average mall base rents increased to 54.19% that was up 10% from a year ago.
FFO for the quarter was $0.79 compared to $0.81 for the prior year reflected in there was $2.2 million of gain on early extinguishment of debt on Lakewood going the other direction was $13.6 million of expenses related to an unsolicited takeover attempt.
Excluding the gain on extinguishment as well as the expenses FFO came in at $0.86 share for the quarter ahead of both our guidance and the consensus estimates.
Impacting the quarter with same center NOI growth had a sector leading 5% compared to last year.
This increase was driven by increased occupancy policy releasing spreads annual rate increases and aggressive operating cost management.
The gross margin improved to 66.6% that was up from 64.9% a year ago and also driven by occupancy gains the strongly leasing environment including second half of last year rent bumps as well as expense reductions in the first quarter of this year.
Bad debt expense was up slightly $4.6 million compared to $800 000 last year in the first quarter much of that was driven by RadioShack and Wet Seal.
The average interest rate continue to go down was 3.5% at quarter-end compared to 4.1% at March 31 of 2014.
The balance sheet is in great shape we have the strongest balance sheet that we’ve had in the history of our company.
At quarter end the various balance sheet metrics for debt-to-market cap 33% interest coverage ratio at 3.5 times debt to EBITDA on a forward basis 7.2 times average debt maturity 5.4 years floating rate debt that as a percentage of total debt was 19% that is somewhat artificially high as we paid off Lakewood during the quarter.
We will be refinancing that with a permanent loan we’ve agreed to $410 million loan 11 years $343 million.
Fixed rate and that’s going to be funded this quarter in the proceeds of used to pay down the line of credit.
In addition we are in the market to put a lot of long-term fixed rate loan on the unencumbered Fresno Fashion Fair.
Those proceeds will be in the neighborhood of $320 million to $340 million and those proceeds will also be used primarily to pay down our line of credit.
In a press release this morning based on the strong first quarter results and our outlook for the rest of the year we’ve marked our FFO guidance range up to $3.83 to $3.93 also embedded in that increase was an increase in our assumption of same-center NOI growth which we bunked 25 basis points to a range 4.5% to 5% on average for the year.
We did that tenant sales growth during the quarter the average portfolio sales per foot for the trailing 12 months was $607.00 that compared to $565.00 a year ago.
If you look at it on a same center basis excluding dispositions that happened over the course of last 12 months the same-center sales were $604 and that compared to $579 on the same-center basis for an increase of 4.3%.
Strongest regions for us were again California and Arizona which were both of strong.
This point I’d like to turn it over to Bob Perlmutter to discuss only single environment.
Thanks Tom.
The first quarter lease activity was solid generating above average leasing spreads on good velocity.
We continue to see retailers invest our capital into the following venues: a) mall locations outlet centers flagship locations and omnichannel retail initiatives.
The quality of the Macerich portfolio was consistent with the retailer objectives which is demonstrated in above-average operating metrics.
Areas of strength within the portfolio included: one large format retailers and anchor retailers.
During Q1 over 400 000 square feet of new leases were executed with retailers over 10 000 square feet.
Some of the notable deals completed during the first quarter included Century 21 and Green Acres Mall and Restoration Hardware Gallery who will construct 50 000 square foot building at The Village at Corte Madera which is the Company’s hometown.
Secondly we are seeing the expansion of core brands from retailers with larger store fleets throughout the portfolio retailer such as L Brands Foot Locker luxottica Kay Jewelers support our expanding their square footages and developing new format.
Within our portfolio these core tenants represented significant amount of the square footage and the strength of their business benefits our centers.
Thirdly there is continued growth from foreign based retailers.
Demand for space within the center is high as the U.S.
markets are viewed favorably with good growth prospects in the coming years.
Most of the attention falls on the fast fashion retailers which include H&amp;M or UNIQLO.
Within our portfolio we have been active with all three including two new deals signed during Q1 with Zara [ph] as Broadway Plaza and the Oaks.
While much of the attention is rightly focused on these three players we also see activity from foreign-based retailers including Adidas Kooples Garage Lululemon Espresso KIKO Gerry Weber Joe Malone Michael Hill and importantly [indiscernible].
Next while more limited in their store openings we see demand from emerging specialty brands on either a standalone basis or within the umbrella of larger retail companies.
Examples of larger retail companies developing new brands which generate store expansions include Lululemon development with Aviva; Gap's expansion of Athleta; Ann Taylor's development of Lou &amp; Grey; H&amp;M's development of &amp; Other Stories; and Macy's purchase of Bluemercury.
New standalone concepts that we have completed deals with include Kitinase who have signed on to the Broadway Plaza expansion Soft Surroundings who signed three leases during the quarter; Yellow box the recently opened at Kierland Commons; Jonathan Adler who recently opened at Santa Monica Place; and Kendall Scott who have come into La Encantada.
Finally we continue to experience growth in the fast casual and full service restaurant categories.
During the first quarter we signed leases with [indiscernible] passions going Queens Center bringing our portfolio total to four units.
We also signed deals with Cheesecake Factory at the Los Cerritos in Santa Monica both properties are adding state-of-the-art theaters.
We also continue to expand our presence with more traditional players like Chipotle Starbucks and Teavana.
Regarding 2014 bankruptcies we’ve made great progress with re-leasing of Coldwater Creek Juicy and Love Culture.
Within our portfolio there were a combined 27 locations containing approximately 170 000 square feet.
To date deals have been completed on approximately 80% of the spaces.
While impacting our occupancy in the short term we have significantly improved the quality of the tenancy and the productivity from these spaces.
New tenants signed for these locations are illustrative of who is active in the marketplace.
Deals completed include Anthropologie Hanna Andersson Vera Bradley Pandora Michael Kors Soft Surroundings Aviva St.
John's Uniqlo Kiehl's and H&amp;M.
Bankruptcies during the first quarter included Wet Seal RadioShack Cache Deb Shops and Body Shop.
In total these store closures included 52 locations with approximately 113 000 square feet.
This impacted the portfolio occupancy by about 50 basis points in Q1.
Looking forward we believe there are opportunities to increase revenues by one increasing our total occupancy while continuing to reduce temporary tenant occupancy levels.
Two significantly increasing the revenue generation and presentation quality within the common areas.
And three maximizing our leasing spreads based on the continued improvement of the portfolio quality.
In summary we believe our portfolio is well-positioned in the current retail environment with many must-have locations for retailers in both traditional mall and outlet center format.
Thank you Bobby and Tom.
As you can tell we have a terrific quarter and our outlook for the future the balance of this year on the operating front is extremely strong.
While the focus today on our call is on the business and operating and financial results I would like to make a few brief comments with respect to recent developments.
We would then like to keep the remainder of the call focused on our strong earnings performance and guidance.
We would appreciate it if you could please keep your questions during the Q&amp;A session focused on our results and outlook.
First I want to highlight that we always seek to maintain open communication with our shareholders and we value their viewpoints.
Over the past two months together with our lead director Fred Hubbell we have spent a significant amount of time speaking and listening to the majority of our top 30 shareholders.
One of the consistent comments from these meetings is that our shareholders want us to remain focused on the business to ensure that we continue driving outsized returns.
This is our top priority and I can tell you that our entire organization is engaged and energized with a singular focus on performance and shareholder returns.
You will see that as Tom and I continue to share with you the results during the balance of this call and discuss with you a number of our new and recent initiatives.
In addition our shareholders have also expressed their viewpoints on governance including the difficult decisions that we made in light of the takeover attempt.
The board did not take these or make these decisions lightly.
The board only implemented governance changes because it believed they were essential to protecting shareholder value.
We continue to solicit shareholder feedback on this topic and intend to announce several changes in the near future that we believe will further demonstrate the board’s ongoing commitment to sound corporate governance.
Again these will be announced in the near future we are not prepared to get into the details on them today.
I also want to briefly address the nominations that we have received and related litigation.
As the litigation is pending we will not be commenting further on it today.
In summary and as noted in our preliminary proxy we notify the New York Stock Exchange that the record date for 2015 annual meeting would March 20 of 2015.
Land and buildings was not a shareholder on March 22.
It acquired 1 100 shares after the record date on March 25 and March 26 and submitted its nominations on March 31.
We advised them privately that because they were not a stockholder of record on March 20 but their submission was defective.
The rules to nominate candidates are the same for all stockholders and this matter is now pending before the court.
Now I’d like to turn to picking up on the results of our quarter and our prognosis for the balance of the year.
As you can see from the number that Tom shared with you that you have read and the color that Bobby just gave to you we had a terrific quarter and we see tremendous opportunities for continued growth and value creation at Macerich over the balance of this year and into the future.
We believe that the company has had an important inflection point with outsized growth coming over the next several years as that we reap the benefits of the significant investments we have made in portfolio management and the transformation of our portfolio.
A particular note it is nice to see that our average sales per foot today on our entire portfolio is an excess on $600 a square foot.
We believe that our focus on the following five major initiatives will play an important role and our ability to continue to deliver enhanced value to our shareholders.
Five initiatives are to continue to drive same-center NOI growth at above average rates to improve our operating margins and have margin expansion.
Portfolio management is number three.
I'm going to be talking about number four the Sears joint venture that was just announced this morning Sear and number five our ongoing developments.
In terms of same center NOI growth due to the pruning of our portfolio and the reinvestment of that capital into our highly productive core portfolio we see the opportunity for superior same-center NOI growth both this year and of the years to come.
Our targeted same-center NOI growth is now for this year budgeted and guided to be 4.5% to 5% represents a significant acceleration for past years.
Number two another major initiative that frankly is the result of a wake up call on this topic is operating margin expansion.
In addition to the same-center NOI growth that we anticipate we also see the opportunity to increase our operating margins both this year and next.
We believe that in the very foreseeable future which I'm looking out over 24 months that we have the opportunity to increase our operating margins by at least 400 basis points.
Primarily this will be down through a combination of efficiency project as well as enhancing the common areas of our malls to improve the customer experience and increase our incremental revenues from that area.
Three portfolio management and capital recycling we are currently taking in-balance and sending out balance through examine opportunities to monetize assets within our portfolio both through joint ventures as well as through dispositions and to re-deploy those proceeds into the most profitable vehicle available to us at that point in time.
We think that through asset monetization and portfolio management that that will help many of you to help through get better transparency and improve your view of the NAV of the company.
We believe that it will validate the view of the NAV of the company that management has and that our Board concluded.
Number four the Sears joint venture this was just concluded late last night.
In that transaction we entered into a transaction very similar to the ones that Sears entered into with two of our other peers.
We are entering into a joint venture for the redevelopment of nine Sears locations that are presently owned and controlled by Sears.
This is a fifty-fifty joint venture and gives us the right to recapture 50% of the GLA that Sears occupies and to redeploy that.
We are investing $150 million into this joint venture and anticipate just north of a 6% return on our investment in the beginning year with opportunities to profitably reinvest into this joint ventures we identify recycling and redevelopment opportunities at these nine locations.
I would point out with the nine locations that we entered into a joint venture with Sears at average sales per square foot at the mall itself $680 a square foot.
The locations are Arrowhead and Chandler in Phoenix; Stan Bury in Connecticut Deptford New Jersey Freehold New Jersey; Los Cerritos in Southern California; South Plains in Lubbock; Vintage Fair Modesto and Washington Square in the Greater Portland markets.
In addition concurrently with that transaction we are also entered into an agreement with Seers that gives us the right to recapture 300 000 square foot store at Kings Plaza with 180 days prior notice.
That really will jump start the next phase of the Kings Plaza redevelopment we are just finishing up remodeling and remerchandising the mall.
And we are in talks today for the addition of two to three new anchors and our junior anchors to redeploy that Seers square footage.
We see great opportunities there.
Moving into the development area I'm not going to go through each of our development pipeline activities because I want to leave plenty of time for questions.
I will just comment upon one in particular and that is Tysons Corner.
It is now coming to completion in terms of the densification project.
Our board had a meeting at Tysons Corner last week and I would encourage you all to get an opportunity the next time you are in the marketplace to take a look at what we have accomplished there.
Our office complex is now over 85% leased the hotel is open.
The residential tower is having the tenants being to move in this weekend.
The tower is already 25% pre-leased which is significantly above what our residential fee developer had projected at rents that are above our pro forma and are the top of the market in the marketplace.
So in summary we are extremely bullish on our prospects.
We think that we have a very clear plan to continue to deliver shareholder value and we look forward to discussing that plan and delivering on that plan over the months to come.
Again as a reminder our call today is to discuss our results for the quarter recently ended.
We are happy to address any questions about financial and operating results redevelopment initiatives pipeline and outlook but we will not be commenting further on the other matters that I discussed earlier about governments and other litigation.
Thank you in advantage for your cooperation and operator we would like to now open it up for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first with Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
Good morning Mike.
Yes hi.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the margin expansion opportunities you mentioned CAM efficiencies and just being able to generate more revenues there? Yes so again like I mentioned we have to wake up call obviously in November when this topic was first broad to the conversation in conjunction with the unsolicited takeover attemp.
And we did a big soul-searching and said either ways that we can improve our margins.
We have some systemic issues with some of our margins where we do business in major urban marketplaces we are at the cross of doing business is extremely high primarily from real estate taxes and infrastructure costs.
And those margins will always be different than a suburban location.
But the revenues in the sales make up forced to the bottom line is the profitability of the mall and the urban malls generate a huge NOI’s even though the margins on balance may not look as attractive as a suburban mall.
But having said that we did some of the conclusion that we could in fact through a combination of initiatives they are dozens and dozens and dozens of initiatives that add up to getting to the ability to increase our margins by 400 basis points.
Some of them are cost saving initiatives some of them are revenue generating initiatives in a multitude of different areas.
But I think that clearly there is an opportunity which we have been working on anyway through the middle of last year and into the end of last year into elevating the common area experience of in our malls which includes many different initiatives to improve the customer experience things like eliminating customer service booths and going to either a virtual concierge or roving concierge and then replacing service booths with revenue generating retailers.
And through a combination of really expense reductions and common area revenue enhancements we clearly see that over the next 24 months there is about 400 basis point of operating margin expansion available to us.
I would say that about a 100 basis points of that is pretty well baked into our guidance for this year but there is still lots of upside to be derived in that arena.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
We will go next to Jeff Spector with Bank of America.
Good morning Jeff.
Hi actually it is Craig Schmidt I am here on behalf of Jeff.
Hey Craig.
Art can you share with us some of the results of the valuation work done by East Hill and how they viewed your ability to create via [ph] value going forward? What’s the second part of your question… Just maybe what they did in that work that might impact how you see creating value going forward? Well they didn't have to do anything other than take a look at the portfolio as a static portfolio simply looking at the income the way that any buyer would look at the income which is on a forward 12-month period of time.
They didn't have to project that into the future any of the development activity that will be generating huge value.
And simply based upon that work they were able to share results with the Board and opinions that indicated the offer that have been put on the table was simply not adequate.
And just on the Sears JV how did you select the nine centers to go in? It seemed like you have a greater proportion of high productivity malls in your store count.
Well we have been communicating with Sears on this matter since December 10.
Actually we first approached Sears with the idea of doing a joint venture on their real estate as opposed to them trying to monetize it or build up a development department themselves back in a personal meeting I had with Eddie Lambert on December 10.
I guess you could say unfortunately I got little distracted over the coming months from being able to finish our joint venture but I guess we kind of planted the seed with Eddie and others helped to cultivate the tree and now we are kind of picking the apples off the tree.
So we identified the nine locations that we thought had the most upside in terms of what we could really demonstrate to each other in terms of value.
We agreed on those nine locations and then collateral to that conversation we talked about several leased locations and one in particular that we had an immediate need for and appetite for that they were willing to cooperate with us with us on was Kings Plaza.
So you are right if you look at the way Greenstreet has their database all of the nine locations that we did joint ventures on were A+ to A- type of malls but more importantly since we disclose sales per square foot by property versus others you can see and know that our nine locations do $680 a square foot which if you compare that to the database that Greenstreet has on the other transactions is a significant notch above in quality.
So again I mean look we are very happy to do this with Sears.
We think it is a very positive step in terms of helping them rationalize and we think there's a lot of upside for the Company and it is immediately accretive to this year's earnings.
Thanks.
Thanks Craig.
And we will go next to Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group.
Good morning Jim.
Yes good morning.
A question a further question on the operating margin commentary you had said Art that about 100 basis points of the 400 basis points is already baked into the 2015 guidance.
Just to make sure we understand this this 4% increase in operating margins by our calculation is something that could work out to be as high as $0.40 a share when fully achieved.
And going back to the November presentation and in Tom O’Hern’s part of a presentation he had talked about same property NOI growth going forward over the next five years in a range of 3% 3.25% to 5.25%.
Am I correct in understanding that the incremental margin or the margin gain here is incremental to that guidance? Jim as Art said 1% had already been factored into our forecast for 2015 at the time we made that presentation certainly a portion of it is in there but with this new focus we would have much more of the bias today towards upper half of that range we gave in November than we did then.
But yes 75% of the margin expansion really was not identified at our Investor Day on November 18.
And therefore putting a number on that that sounds like to me it is about an incremental $0.30 a share? I'm not sure we think about more in dollars and I think it’s a little bit less than $30.
Yes that’s sounds little high to me Jim.
We think it will take a bit more of the total in the $35 million to $40 million of Code.
And 75% of that is to be reaped over and above what’s in our current guidance for this year.
So that sounds like $0.17 to $0.18? Okay.
I think you do the math on that per share.
Thank you Jim Okay.
And we will go next to Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So part of that 400 basis points of operating margin you are talking about right now how much of that has to do maybe with contemplating going from CPI-based leases to fixed CAM because I would imagine in a low-inflation environment that might make a big difference? None.
Okay.
And in terms of quality… But and that could drive that I suppose if I would have think about it but none.
That’s not in our thinking there.
Okay.
So in terms of the Sears JV it seems like the current structure that 50% of the space can be taken back and leased out or for better purposes but is that just kind of laid out current structure but eventually if you can make more money on it it can be higher than 50%? Yes.
It could be agreed upon by the parties yes.
Yes yes.
Okay sounds good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will go next to George Auerbach with Credit Suisse.
Good morning George.
Good morning guys.
Art you mentioned continuing to try to pare back the portfolio and look at dispositions.
Do you have any assets on the market today and I guess more broadly what would you expect disposition volume to be over the next call it 12 months? So I would encourage you not to think in terms of dispositions even though that could be part of our plan to monetize assets.
So I think of it in terms of asset monetization and portfolio management.
Dispositions could be a part of that.
Dispositions could also be none of that but we do believe and secondly there are no properties on the market.
We are having strategic conversations with the logical buyers of 100% assets so those would be disposition conversations.
But more philosophical and kind of identifying what their appetite is size geography things of that nature.
We are also talking to a number of very significant core type of investors on the possibility of doing some joint ventures.
And this is really on the joint venture side of it a lot of that is driven by an appetite I think to help all of you that are on this call to update your thinking on NAVs and we do believe that we would have a great use of proceeds for that capital if and when we do it but I think look there is definitely an appetite for - I think somebody wrote this morning show me the money - to show you the money to monetize some assets to demonstrate values.
And so we had a number of inbound indications of interest and we have reached out to a couple of our core investors that we currently do business with and I think there is going to be an opportunity here to really validate our view on the value of our portfolio while creating significant liquidity for the Company achieving portfolio management by hopefully also recycling out of some lower growth assets into higher growth.
And then the ultimate redeployment of that capital which we anticipate could be quite significant will be determined to be whatever is the smartest use of that capital at the point in time that the monetization has been accomplished.
It’s definitely in our play book for this year.
I guess just on the sources and uses then do you envision yourself being net acquirers of third-party assets just given that you can't really shield the gains from these sales? I know you have use of proceeds in development but with the gains do you envision yourselves sort of growing the asset count? At this point in time it will be whatever we see is the most profitable re-deployment of the capital at that point in time.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Good morning Ross.
Hey good morning.
I guess my question is this.
If $95.50 [ph] substantially undervalued the company and you're going to be potentially selling your JV assets why not use a decent amount of that capital to be recycled into buying back your stock I guess in a balanced way with your capital needs in terms of development redevelopment.? That could be one of the most profitable vehicles to redeploy the proceeds at some point in the future.
And do you have remind me do you have an existing buyback plan in place or is that something that you have got to do? We do not have one in place today.
No.
Okay.
And just as a follow-up I think your March 31 release also talked about selectively expanding the outlet program.
Can you give us a sense of what is in the pipeline over the next couple of years in terms of new outlet development beyond San Francisco? Given that that it’s really selective it’s really just more of an avenue that we intend to continue to pursue.
I think the possibility of expanding Fashion Outlets of Chicago is in our future.
We just completed the expansion of Fashion Outlets of Niagara.
I think that the Candlestick Fashion Outlets at San Francisco we are already pre-leasing it that is going to be terrific.
We’re well underway in terms of the re-branding of our project with Penn REIT in Philadelphia.
So we have got a lot on our plate and a lot to execute on that are going to be very meaningful.
Having said that we are definitely trying to source opportunities that are of that quality going forward but given that we have such a high bar in terms of what we are seeking to achieve this could it for now.
We’ve always said that we see us having a handful of these assets and but that we want them to be dominant.
If we’re able to uncover further opportunities then that would be great.
Okay.
Thank you.
We will go Haendel St Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning guys - good morning out there.
[Indiscernible] So Art can you talk about the tenor of your conversations you are having with tenants and how that might have changed over the past year or so as your portfolio quality has improved? Your leasing spreads remained here in the low 20s for the past couple of years despite selling a number of lower tier malls.
So curious on perhaps maybe you can give some color on how that looks for maybe some of your top tier versus maybe some of your mid-tier malls.
And then how we should think about that going forward? And I ask because obviously your portfolio quality has improved.
You have some of the best dirt and best locations out there but your pricing power doesn't appear to have taken as much hold perhaps as I would have thought or seen and especially as you jettison some of your lower quality assets.
Well I'm going to ask about Bob Perlmutter to give you color.
I’m not sure I would necessarily say that our pricing power hasn’t been revealed because I think that our releasing spreads have been up the top in our sector they are certainly up there.
But look our leasing conversations are back and forth and we seek to make deals with tenants that we think are the right merchants for our malls.
Sometimes we don’t go for just the highest rent sometimes we go for the right merchant and so I’m going to ask Bob to talk though and give you more color on what we see here.
I think what we have seen from a spread you are right the percentage increase has been relatively consistent and at the higher end of the range but obviously we are finding some much higher rents and much higher average rents was in the center as the portfolio improves.
We see pricing power improving because we are out of a situation of reverse leverage where the tenants know that they have an equal seat at the table with the desire to keep stores open at lesser quality centers.
So we feel like we have been able to accomplish a similar percentage increase on a higher rental rate which is an indication that the strategy of pruning the portfolio is the right one.
Can you give any incremental color on how perhaps those spreads differ between some of your higher productivity and more mid-productivity mall? Clearly be higher productivity malls as a general rule are generating higher levels of spreads but the spreads are positive generally throughout the entire portfolio.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we will go next to Christy McElroy with Citi.
Good morning.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Morning.
Just following up on your comments just further on monetized assets you mentioned that the monetizations would provide clarity on NAV.
I'm wondering if you can share with us the Board's of view of the current NAV of the Company? The Board's view is that it was substantially above the offer that was on the table.
Hi Art it’s Michael Bilerman speaking.
Good morning.
Just a question I remember at the Investor Day when you did the deal with Cadillac and they took stock in the enterprise in the Company.
You had said that the that the desire was for them go up to 15% and that they wanted to go up to 15%.
I'm just curious why hasn’t happened yet and is there any reason why it hasn’t happened? Well there was an announcement today after we did that deal with them that kind of put them into a difficult position in terms of being able to buy stock.
But what we did is what they asked for a waiver to go up to 2014 and change.
We gave them a waiver and I can’t there have been probably periods of time that they may have been precluded from buying stock during the recent events that you could imagine that could be part of the case.
So going forward I have no idea what they are going to do.
They have the right to buy shares to go up to a certain number.
It’s really their choice and they will make that decision on their own.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
We will go next to Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler ONeil.
Good morning Alexander.
Hey morning out there Just a question here going back to the margin.
First is 400 basis points is that the most that you think you can improve or you think you can improve it further? And what are the hindrances sort of in the near-term over the next 24 months; what would be the hindrances to you hitting that 400 basis points? I understand obviously 100 is already in the bag but what is the hindrance to getting that other 300? The only hindrance would be our imagination.
But you having said that look we’ve got a big wakeup call on this.
We sat down and we said can we do things better and smarter here and through multiple multiple thoughts we came to the conclusion that we can.
To me now 400 is not the end game it is just what I can feel comfortable saying that I see us being able to accomplish in this - on just one metrics over the next 24 months.
I could tell you that with my operating team the significantly higher number just in terms of revenue generation that I see that we can achieve over the next 2 years to 5 years and I’m sure that they will accomplish it.
Okay.
And just a follow-up question.
On the Sears [indiscernible] the other two peers made a $33 million investment in Seritage.
Do you guys make the same or was that not in the release or you guys didn't have to do that? We did not have to do that.
Okay thank you.
I am not saying - it very well could be a great investment but it might be but it was not part of our deal.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
We will go next to Steve Sakwa with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
Good morning Steve.
Hi good morning.
Two questions one I noticed that the property management company loss widened between 1Q 2014 and 1Q 2015 by about $6 million.
I'm just wondering were there any sort of - I won't say accounting changes - but were there any differences that you guys did? Was there anything because of the joint venture that might have changed classifications? What sort of explains that $6 million swing? Well it is primarily timing.
First quarter is the bonus payment and a lot of the bonus payments are tied to total shareholder return and 2014 was a very good year.
So bonuses were bigger for the management team than they were the prior year.
That’s the biggest difference there.
So that large swing of $6 million is largely bonus payments? It’s not the whole thing it is about 60% of it and then there is a variety of other things in there.
It will even out over the course of the year.
That is just a one quarter anomaly.
Okay.
And then I guess Art just going back to the asset sales and sort of trying to I guess put some markers on the board can you just sort of maybe talk about the potential timing of those? Are those transactions that may take place in the next three months by the end of the year or over the next 12 months? Just help us sort of frame out the timing of when these transactions may actually transpire.
This year if I gave you a date you could imagine that would put me at a disadvantage in negotiating with the counterparty but definitely this year.
And the conversations are active but nothing is on the market.
Okay.
And then I guess just the last question as you think about kind of renovations and expansions… This is definitely your bonus question Steve.
Okay I’ll make it quick.
Just in terms of renovations and expansions you've got a large sort of shadow pipeline of A projects.
But are you thinking about that pipeline differently today as we move into the cycle or five six years in? Are you doing things differently are you kind of derisking? What’s kind of changed in your thought process? Well good question.
I'm glad you asked it.
So the - I think that we have made a decision a few years ago but clearly it is validated today that the best possible place we can put our money is into proven winners.
So our focus is going to be on the redevelopment and expansion of proven winners and I think by doing that you derisk the investment so definitely proven winners is supposed to ground-up.
And I think that as you think about the pipeline the announcement with Sears that really opens up a whole new avenue of opportunities to reposition nine of the centers that we own here so we’re very pleased with that.
And I think there will be other rationalizations that we will - now that we’ve have been successful on this one that we will enter into with Sears so proven winners.
I think by doing that you derisk the investment and pre-leasing obviously.
Thanks Steve.
Next question.
We will take a follow-up from Christy McElroy from Citi.
It is Michael Bilerman.
Just in terms of the fashion outlets and marquis the project you did with [indiscernible] are the supplementals you did 100 to 125 - which was the incremental spend above and beyond the 106.8 that you put in.
How should we think about the blended return on the entire capital stack that you expect? Michael The way to look at the 106 is we currently are going to be getting even after a lot of the retail has been stripped out of there - there is going to be our share of the NOI is about $4 million.
There is an office building there that continues to operate Century 21 continues to operate and that was all part of the 106.
So if you take the 106 at a $4 million or so $4.5 million you can factor that in and do the math.
It probably takes it down to around an 8 or 8.5 But that will But that would be an interrupted NOI.
That is still just an estimate Mike.
As we get deeper into it we will refine refine refine that estimate and then it could change.
And then I just wanted to come back to the NAV and the Street sell side NAVs are anywhere from 75 to 80.
So there is clearly a disconnect between that and whatever the unsolicited bid was and what room it had in it.
I am curious what you could share with us and I know you are going to go through these joint venture conversations and special sale discussions but in the volume of work that Estill and Goldman and J.P.
Morgan and Deutsche that you spent $13 million on I'm sure that there's a lot of good nuggets of information that is in there that potentially could shed light and help us help investors narrow that gap.
And so I'm curious if there is anything else that you could do to shed more light other than - because I think selling happened just in the mall may be giving you upside right? You don't want to do that either and you’ve talked about that in the past so I'm just curious is there anything else you can sort of divulge or present to the Street? Sure.
I feel like we already have but I also feel like people haven't heard us.
We gave out a number that is not a GAAP number not an FFO number but is a number that is what a buyer and a seller would normally focus upon if you were buying or selling this collection of assets and that number was $1.43 billion that Estill did present and we presented to our Board.
Estill said look if we were selling these assets this is the forward 12-month cash flow that we would expect the buyer to pay for.
So if you take that real estate income which again that’s a disclosure that you are not going to find it in our supplement it is not a GAAP number it’s a number people would use in the buying or selling of properties.
And then you can apply different cap rates to that number.
If you want to apply the cap rate that are unsolicited buyer bidder apply to our historical NOI of a 4-cap rate you do the math and that takes you up between $112 and $115 a share.
If you want to take a 4.5-cap rate it takes you to around $95 a share.
And then look one thing I do know is that everybody has an opinion on cap rates and they are entitled to that opinion.
So I think the most important number that we have shared that I'm not sure that people have really really focused on is the number that a buyer and a seller would expect to use in transacting on this portfolio and then you apply whatever cap rate to that that you want.
Right and then there is the whole issue of control premium the development the redevelopment and all the sorts of things that would roll into perception of value as well.
I would leave you to go ahead and decide what control premium you would add to that what development value you would add to that.
Again I would reiterate that Estill did not have to try and get into projecting out developments that are down the road.
This was very much an as is static type of number and our development pipeline would be incremental to that and people would value that but obviously that is more speculative in variance.
Thanks Art.
Thank you.
And we will take follow-up from Jim Sullivan with Cowen Group.
Thanks.
Yes I have a question on Santa Monica Place Art.
Looking over the productivity and the occupancy changes that you break out in the sup clearly over the last year Santa Monica Place has improved the productivity kind of more than the portfolio average and it has had a nice gain in occupancy.
I know you have the theater planned I think in fourth quarter of this year.
I just wonder the third floor has always been kind of the problem at that center.
It is where you have had the biggest kind of changeover in terms of tenants and still seems to be a work in progress.
I wonder if you could just tell us in anticipation of the theater growing in what the prospects are and whether you have been able to tie up any leases for that space that has been problematic already? Yes big question.
I’m going to ask Bob Perlmutter to address that because my blood pressure goes up when you ask me about Santa Monica Place.
Jim this is Bob Perlmutter.
As you pointed out the third floor has clearly experienced the most turnover at the center.
Not surprising given its orientation toward restaurants which are not always as predictable as apparel or other types of retail.
The key change is the theater and the theater impacts we believe not only this particular center but the entire market which is devoid of a first class theater presentation.
Getting them up on the third floor will be the key to build momentum around them.
Probably the most important impact we have seen is Cheesecake Factory which as you know also requires a lot of volume and a lot of bodies going through their space.
They have signed a lease for 12 000 feet they are under construction.
They will open at the same time as the theater.
And from that we are able to build both traditional restaurant uses which we will probably announce a couple more before the end of the year as well as another entertainment use up there that we hope to announce before the end of the year.
And just to add to that we did take a chance six years ago with some less creditworthy restaurant type of concept.
So the Cheesecake Factory obviously is a credit so then and the other entertainment use that Bob is referring to I think has significant credit also.
And obviously Cheesecake is pretty discerning in their real estate decisions and they told us they only have one other location that is on the third floor of a shopping center.
So obviously they see great potential both in the Santa Monica market as well as with the theater there.
One other food type question while we are on it I wonder if you could share with us regarding the Eataly lease in Chicago do you have percentage rent on that? We do.
Good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We will go next to Linda Tsai with Barclays.
Hi.
Your sales productivity at $607 per square foot is better than your peers and keeps growing.
Do you have any view of what sales per square foot could look like in two to three years? Like is this something you spend time forecasting? I could predict sales weather or interest rates I think I do something other than - I think my golf game would get better.
I will tell you and not to make light of your question.
The tactical moves that we make towards improving our sales is the constant and vigilant process of weeding out the bottom one-third of our portfolio that tends to do sales volumes at significantly lower than our averages.
So I have thrown out numbers before and I'm not fresh on them today.
But if our portfolio is doing $607 a foot that’s probably the result of one-third of our tenants doing $300 a foot and one-third of them doing $600 a foot and another one-third of them doing$1000 a foot.
But a lot of what we do every day is we don't wait for the leases to expire and we are constantly in the process of trying to recycle unproductive tenants out and bring in tenants that we believe will do better than the mall average.
That is how we get our sales to go up.
[indiscernible] We don't try influence consumer spending necessarily other than by giving them the merchandise that they want.
We cannot influence people’s disposable income but we can influence the productivity by always trying to bring in winners that can produce volumes that are above the mall average.
I’m sorry - I cut you off on the balance of your question.
I was just asking like with more asset sales could that potentially hasten the process of increasing sales per square foot faster? Sure that happens but that is not the goal of - the goal of asset dispositions is not to manipulate the average sales per foot.
The goal of the asset dispositions is to identify and look it is largely done but is to identify low growth businesses and to redeploy that capital in the high growth businesses.
Thanks.
Thank you very much and we all appreciate you joining us on our call.
We appreciate your input and we are all available to you any time that you want to talk further about anything that we talked about today.
So thank you very much.
That does conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to The Macerich Company Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time.
Today’s conference is being recorded and now I would like to turn the conference over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on our third quarter 2015 earnings call.
During the course of this call management will be making forward-looking statements which are subject to uncertainties and risk associated with our business and industry.
For a more detailed description of these risks please refer to the company’s press release and SEC filings.
During this call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC’s Regulation G.
The reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the press release and the supplemental 8-K filings for the quarter which are posted in the Investors section of the company’s website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Tom O’Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bob Perlmutter Executive Vice President Leasing; John Perry Senior Vice President Investor Relations; also dialing in is Ed Coppola President.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Art will not be joining us today.
He is out with a flu.
After running 86 straight earnings calls since our IPO this is actually his first miss.
Consistent with past practice we will be limiting this call to one hour.
If we run out of time and you still have questions please do not hesitate to reach out for me or John Perry or Jean Wood.
It was another very strong quarter for us.
We continue to see the benefit in our operating results of the major portfolio transformation we’ve been through the past three years including the sale of 15 lower productivity malls and the redeployment of that capital into more productive faster-growing assets.
Leasing spreads were good again this quarter and we saw good deal volume.
Bob Perlmutter will be speaking in more detail on leasing environment in a moment.
We signed about 265 000 square feet of leases on space under 10 000 square feet with average re-leasing spreads for the trailing 12 months of 16.3% that’s on a cash basis.
Mall occupancy was at 95.4% down slightly from a year ago but if you look at the permanent occupancy permanent occupancy was actually up 30 basis points to 90.2%.
Average malls base rents increased to 53.83% up from 49.27% a year ago.
In terms of FFO FFO for the quarter came in at $1.1 that compared to $0.88 for the quarter ended September 30 2014.
Same center NOIs for the quarter was up 7% compared to the third quarter of last year and year-to-date same centre NOI is up 6.5%.
The increase has been driven by increased permanent occupancy double-digit releasing spreads annual rent increases and aggressive operating cost management.
Likewise our gross operating margins also improved significantly gross margin came in at 69.5% that’s up from 66.4% in the third quarter of last year.
Year-to-date the gross margin has improved by 250 basis points to 68.6% compared to 66.1% through the first nine months of 2014.
Bad debt expense for the quarter was about $800 000 that’s compared to $1.7 million in the third quarter of last year.
Lease termination revenue was up modestly at $3.4 million in the quarter up from $2.2 million in the third quarter of last year.
And I should note in the fourth quarter 2015 we forecasted about $1.2 million of lease term revenue which will comp negatively compared to the $6.8 million that we had in the fourth quarter of 2014.
So that would have an adverse impact obviously on fourth quarter same centre NOI growth rate.
We still expect to see fourth quarter NOI growth rate of 4.5% to 5% however even factoring in the expected drop in lease term revenue.
Looking at the balance sheet it continues to be in great shape debt to market cap at quarter end is 36.5% interest coverage 3.9 times debt-to-EBITDA on a forward basis 7.2 times average debt maturity 5.5 years although with the refinancings we have under way that will stretch to 6.5 year average maturity.
The financing market continues to be strong concurrent with the joint ventures that I’ll be discussing in a moment.
We’re doing $1.8 billion in new financing and that will yield over $1.1 million of excess proceeds to MAC that includes the financing of Washington Square of $550 million.
The existing debt is $225 million so we are doubling the size of that debt.
We have not only locked in rate at 3.65 for seven years we expect to close on that loan on Thursday this Thursday tomorrow.
In South Plains we closed last Friday on a $200 million dollar loan at 4.22% and that’s for 10 years.
South Plains have been previously unencumbered.
Los Cerritos Center on Friday we expect to close $525 million worth of new loan that’s at 4% fixed or 12 years that pays of the existing debt of $186 million.
And then in January we expect to close the loan on Arrowhead which is $400 million that rate is also locked at 4.05% for 12 years.
And both Los Cerritos and Washington Square are interest only loans for the first six years.
As announced on September 30 we reached agreement to contribute minority interest in eight properties valued at a total value of $5.4 billion which represent a good cross-section of assets from the Macerich portfolio.
They went into separate joint ventures with GIC who was 40% and five assets in Heitman that were 49% in three assets.
Expected cash proceeds from the transactions total about $2.3 billion which includes $1.1 billion of excess refinance proceeds most of which I just spoke of.
Use of proceeds is expected to include share repurchases under the Company’s recently authorized $1.2 billion share repurchase program we’re also planning to pay down line of credit and we expect to make two special dividends total in the range of $3.5 to $4.5.
We’re very pleased to enter into these transactions with these very well regarded investment partners this is an expansion of a long-standing relationship with Heitman and the beginning of a new one with the GIC.
These transactions provide us with significant capital to create additional shareholder value they also highlight the significant differential between the private and public market valuation of our assets.
The joint venture that will include Lakewood Los Cerritos South Plains and Washington Square to the total value of $3.1 billion is expected to close within a week possibly as early as this Friday October 30.
Arrowhead FlatIron Deptford and Twenty Ninth Street are expected to close in early January.
Cash to MAC on the first closing is $1.44 billion which includes about $850 million of excess loan proceeds.
On October 23 our Board of Directors declared 4.4% increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.68 per share of common stock that dividend is payable December 4 to stockholders of record to close the business on November 12.
In addition we expect that as a result of the joint ventures that we’re in the process of closing two special dividends of approximately $2 each per share will be paid in December and January.
Action on those will take place shortly after the two closings or at least the first closing which we expect within a week.
In our press release this morning we referred our previously provided FFO per share guidance range $3.86 to $3.94 that also factors in about $0.03 of dilution that we expect to incur as a result of the joint ventures for the balance of this year that’s on the four assets are closing in the next week for roughly two months that remain in this year.
Tenant sales Bob will get into more detail but just on overall basis the portfolio tenant sales came at $6.30 for the trailing 12 months.
And if you look at that compared to last year the portfolio was $5.71 on a same-center basis were about 7.7% and $6.30 compared to $5.85 on a same center basis at September 30 2014 a very strong increase.
At this point I’d like to turn it over to Bobby to discuss the leasing environment.
Thanks Tom.
Performance during the third quarter remain strong as the company’s portfolio continues to benefit from the aggressive capital recycling program achieved during the past three years.
The sale of non-core slower growing assets and the repatriation of these dollars into high-growth acquisitions development and redevelopment initiatives is resulting in strong performance consistent with the strategy we are seeing an accelerated differentiation by retailers between A quality centers and lower productivity assets.
During the third quarter leasing spreads were 16.3% on a trailing 12 month period lease space dropped slightly by 10 basis points to 95.4%.
On a year-over-year basis the portfolio is down 20 basis points which is – which decline is modest given the magnitude of the tenant bankruptcies earlier in 2015.
And we believe it illustrates the high quality portfolio that Macerich owns.
We have discussed many times our goals in reducing temporary tenant occupancy.
On a year-over-year basis our temporary tenant occupancy has decreased 50 basis points while permanent occupancy rose 30 basis points.
During the third quarter leasing levels increased to the top 20 centers within our portfolio we are experiencing the strong leasing spreads at the East and West Coast centers.
Demand from retailers is larger than 10 000 square feet continues to be active with over 200 000 square feet lease during the third quarter.
Some notable deals include H&amp;M at Broadway Plaza Nordstrom Rack at Fashion Outlets of Chicago and Uniqlo at Tysons Center.
Finally during the quarter we converted 52 000 square feet from temporary to permanent tenants resulting in 109% rent increase sales ended the third $630 per square foot which is another high watermark for the company.
Year-over-year sales per square foot showed a 7.7% increase on the same centre basis.
Positive drivers for sales per square foot include one increased from high-impact tenants such as Apple and Tesla; two strong categories such as home furnishings jewelry athletic footwear and cosmetics; three store closures and remerchandising of under productive tenants such as RadioShack Coldwater Creek Love Culture gap and Wet Seal; and four strong comparable sales at a number of centers including Fashion Outlets at Chicago.
On the negative side apparel sales are only showing modest sales per square foot gains if they struggle with a lack of a distinct fashion trend increasing competition from large format retailers and sluggish consumer settlement.
All regions are showing increase in sales with the West Coast Post in the highest growth levels.
Turning to the development projects we’re pleased with the progress of Broadway Plaza where we are nearly complete with the leasing for the first phase of the identification of this unique asset.
A portion in the first phase will open in November with the majority of the expansion opening in May 2016.
Earlier in the week we issued a press release which is available on our website announcing 45 stores that have signed leases in this development.
We are particularly pleased that Arhaus Gap H&amp;M and Zara are all signed to build two level of flagship stores at Broadway Plaza.
Overall the first phase is 84% of this space under signed leases and we expect to add more retailers to this list prior to the May 2016 opening.
We are also pleased with the leasing progress at green acres comments a 335 000 square foot power centre located adjacent to Green Acres Mall.
The centre has executed leases on 75% of the space and will be anchored by Dick’s Sporting Goods Ashley Furniture in Burlington as well as a number of freestanding restaurants.
We are planning a fourth quarter 2016 opening.
Century 21 held a very successful store opening yesterday at Green Acres Mall.
We believe the addition of this unique 70 000 square foot department store will significantly add to the market penetration of this centre.
We are also seeing the impact of adding theatres to some of our premier assets including Santa Monica Place Scottsdale Fashion Square and Los Cerritos.
These theatres which will open in the coming months have increased demands from high-quality restaurants fast casual food concepts and specialty stores.
Restaurants opening during the fourth quarter include Cheesecake Factory at Santa Monica Place in Los Cerritos as well as Shake Shack at Scottsdale Fashion Square.
Looking forward we continue to make progress on the redevelopment of the existing Sears store Kings Plaza as well as the pre-leasing for the outlet centers in Philadelphia and San Francisco.
We expect to discuss these developments in the coming months.
Art and Tom have both spoken in the past about our renewed emphasis on our common areas.
We’re focused on enhancing the revenue generation and elevating the customer experience with a particular emphasis on fortress assets for both permanent kiosks and business development opportunities.
We are forecasting by the end of the year 2015 the in place annualized permanent kiosk revenue will have increased over 20% as compared to the previous year.
Illustrative of their commitment to quality at Santa Monica Place we have been able to attract such users as Starbucks Aesop which is a high-end UK skincare company and Pressed Juice into the common area.
All of these will impact revenue and enhance our customer experience.
Looking towards the end of the year we are anticipating that bankruptcies are likely to be comparable or higher than in previous years.
Many of these retailers are public companies and based on their current stock prices the markets are pricing in a significant risk of bankruptcy.
Contrary to the previous year we are expecting less store closing as part of the bankruptcies as many of the retailers are prime candidates for restructuring with a smaller store base.
Again we believe the lower quality centers will be disproportionately impacted.
In conclusion the performance during the first three quarters reflects a continuing demand from retailers for locations in high quality centers that serve dense and affluent trade areas.
The company is focused on better quality centers with a significant presence on both Coast is consistent with many retailers breaking Brick &amp; Mortar expansion plans.
The impact of the capital recycling that has occurred during the past three years is very evident in the year-to-date results and we believe positions Macerich well into the coming years.
Tom? Thanks Bob.
Now as we go into Q&amp;A I ask everyone to in order to give everyone a chance to ask their question please limit yourself to one question.
Thanks.
Now we’ll go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Jim Sullivan from the Cowen Group.
…from the asset sales.
What if anything have you provided for in terms of use of proceeds? I’m sorry Jim the first part of your question cut out a little bit.
Sure.
To repeat your guidance provided for $0.03 dilutive impact in Q4 from the asset sales.
What if any provision have you made for use of proceeds in that revision? Well Jim the – one of the biggest use of proceeds will be the approved share buyback program.
And that’s not something that we could start until after the window opened which will be in November sometime.
So there has been some of that assumed in the $0.03.
There has been some use of the cash to pay down the line of credit during that period of time.
But a lot of that cash will not be deployed in the fourth quarter and that’s been factored into the $0.03.
And moving on we have a question from Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Hi great.
Thanks.
You’re looking at your sales per square foot by asset I was wondering how village at Corte Madera went from 955 to 1 435 sales per square foot.
I’m wondering if it was related Tesla Motors maybe starting to report sales? Craig this is Bob Perlmutter.
You’re correct.
I mean two comments.
Corte Madera has a small middle between the two department stores.
So obviously individual tenants can make a much greater impact.
But secondly I believe that last quarter Tesla annualized and so now they’re included in the comp sales.
So they obviously had a significant impact.
Great.
Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go next to Alexander Goldfarb from Sandler O’Neill.
Good morning out there.
Tom on the stock buyback obviously when you guys announced it a few weeks ago with the transaction stock was materially lower and had a very good run.
So how much price sensitivity is there in the stock buyback program? And would you – are you guys 100% committed to it or depending on where the stock is you may use that capital elsewhere where it may be more accretive? Alex it’s always a function of market conditions.
And today – the price we’re at today we think it’s still a very significant discount to NAV which would make a buyback attractive.
So at the moment it’s attractive and we’ll just have to monitor market conditions as we move forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next we’ll go to Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
Yes.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hi Rich.
What changes Tom occur through the same-store NOI numbers and the comp sales numbers when you guys complete the transaction – the joint venture transactions? I mean is that prorated in some sense? Do you make changes based on your percentage ownership in each of those centers? Obviously it’s a function of our pro rata ownership.
I would say that the growth rate in those centers approximates the growth rate over the next five years we expect from the rest of the portfolio.
So it really shouldn’t change things too much.
But we’ll just keep picking up our pro rata share of NOI from those eight assets once the JVs have closed.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
And next we’ll go to Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Hi.
Just a quick one.
What drove the higher cap interest expectation in guidance? Yes Mike we’ve been running about $5 million a quarter that was just a change to our initial guidance assumption.
We’ve been running it a little bit higher than that assumption which was roughly at $4 million a quarter we’ve been running closer to $5 million.
There really was no change in the projects per se.
There is always some timing that is factored in when you are estimating capitalized interest and that assumption was just low.
If you see like the last three quarters we’ve been running pretty much right at 5 million to 5.5 million a quarter.
Okay.
So nothing changed in terms of capitalization policies at the pipeline? No.
Okay.
And I forget is that a one question limit or can we have a follow-up? Go ahead Michael.
That doesn’t count though.
But your Green Acres Commons is that a long-term hold in the portfolio? Mike this is Bob Perlmutter.
We really considered part of the mall and if you look at Green Acres Mall there’s a significant amount of sales generation that comes from anchored tenants outside the mall so it seems like it makes a ton of sense for us to own the asset in conjunction with the mall because a big part of the draw is not only the shopping center itself but all the peripheral development.
Okay.
Bobby this is Ed can I make one comment? Sure.
It’s also the front door of the mall Michael.
When we selectively went after that property during the acquisition process of Green Acres we saw the opportunity there to integrate it into the property and make it part of as Bobby says the outside portion where Wal-Mart is and all the rest.
So it’s an integral part of the property and that will be very productive and we’re getting very very good rents compared to other big box deals in our portfolio.
So I assume it’s a long hold.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi thanks good morning out there.
Hey Todd.
Hi.
First quick follow-up question on the stock buyback is there a limit as to how much stock can be repurchased within a certain timeframe and then my other question though is regarding the special dividend the portion of that special that’s earmarked for 2016 I think you said that portion would be paid in January is there are any thought or is it possible to delay that distribution until later in the year see how your taxable income position stands at year-end and then make a final determination are there reasons why you can’t defer that payment at all into the year? In terms of that we have a pretty good visibility on what the taxable income is going to be absent any other asset dispositions so for tax purposes we’re deferring the closing on a few of these JVs until January and we’re pretty confident that we’re going to just go ahead and make that payment in January not deferred until later in the year.
So I’d expect that once these JVs close that there will be a dividend they will each be approximately $2 a share likely one paid in December one paid in January.
And I’m sorry Tom what was the first part of your question? I was just curious if there is a limit as to how much stock can be repurchased within a certain timeframe? Well typically they say within a given trading date 10% to 20% of your daily volume.
Moving on we have a question from Paul Morgan from Canaccord.
Hi good morning just following up on your comments about the bankruptcy watch list and some of the apparel retailers I mean you said some of their stocks are pricing at a bankruptcy but you didn’t necessarily see the post-holiday bankruptcy season this year as being as bad as it was in 2015 and I just wanted to get a little more clarity on the comment that some of these downsides could take place and the chance could be profitable I mean a lot of the downsizing is typically are part of the Chapter 11 filing and I mean we do contemplate change negotiating access outside of bankruptcy to downsize and become more profitable and how are you thinking about that? Paul this is Bob Perlmutter.
I think the distinction I was trying to draw is that when a tenant goes bankrupt in the last couple of years we’ve seen most of them result in the entire chain being closed.
A number of the candidates that we believe are potentially priced in the way that bankruptcy is the significant risk.
We’re not as certain that they’re going to close this number of stores that the previous bankruptcies incurred.
So we basically feel the bankruptcy levels maybe the similar as last year but the amount of store closings maybe less because the number of these chains will use bankruptcy potentially to reduce their store count.
Outside of bankruptcy it’s more difficult because the landlords will typically require some buyout or compensation and many of the companies have not – there’s been very few examples where companies have been successful doing that.
Okay and then that’s where it gets to your point that you think that the impact would be disproportionately felt on lower tier malls because in part of the bankruptcy process though the stores that they would want to keep open would be in the high-end malls is what? Correct.
The higher productivity malls.
Yes okay.
Thanks.
Christy McElroy from Citi has our next question.
Hi Christy.
Hi good morning.
Hey guys thanks.
I’m wondering if you expect any onetime debt charges in Q4 and Q1 resulting from the refinancings that you are doing on the JVs and sort of related to that the $3.86 to $3.94 range is your adjusted FFO guidance.
Can you provide your 2015 guidance range in accordance with NAREIT? As part of the transaction we would expect to prepay early both Los Cerritos debt and the Arrowhead debt.
Collectively that’s about $20 million a prepayment penalty and that would be split pro rata between our partner and ourselves.
And that’s something that would happen as part of the closing of the transaction.
The things that would factor the NAREIT definition would include the cost we incurred as a result of the unsolicited takeover attempt and we spoke about those earlier in the year I don’t those in front of me.
But that would be something that would be factored into yet to your NAREIT definition.
What’s the split of the $20 million between Q4 and Q1? It’s roughly half and half.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning everyone.
Just a question going back to the share buybacks the 10% to 20% of daily volume.
Just curious when you factor in blackout days what number of days are really available to be buying back shares in any given quarter? Well there’s a variety of ways to do these buybacks Vin and one way is an accelerated share repurchase program where you effectively do a program through your investment bank and they don’t have the windows that we have.
So once that program is started if we go that route they could buy all the way through a quarter but no blackout windows or if it’s for us typically once the quarter ends we’re in a blackout period until three days after earnings call something like that.
So about a third of the quarter would be under normal circumstances would be a blackout period for us just depends on what method we used to pursue with the buyback.
Right got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just another question on the leasing spreads – still very strong but they have kind of tailed off a little bit over the last couple of quarters.
Is there anything to read into that? Or do you expect that could pick up again here over the next couple of quarters just given the strength of your sales performance and things like that? I don’t think we see any trend that is affecting on I think it’s just a function of what basket of leases got signed in the projected quarter and what expired.
All right okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Linda Tsai from Barclays.
Yes hi following up on an earlier question back to Bob’s comments about the challenging retail environment and cognizant that the store closures would impact the class B malls more do you have a forecast for the store closings you might see in your portfolio in 2016? Presumably it’s less than in 2015 but is there any sense yet? We keep a watch list that is based not only on companies but particular stores.
So where we have generally had a pretty good handle I know going into 2015 we had a very good handle on who was going to close and we budgeted accordingly.
So we’re in the same process now when we prepare our budget in terms of looking at not only chains that we think have additional risk but particular stores that are vulnerable based on the occupancy costs.
But is it more or less than 2015? I would it’s pretty consistent honestly.
Okay.
Thanks.
And now we’ll take a question from Haendel St.
Juste from Morgan Stanley.
Hey thanks there.
So Tom I guess for you.
Going back to same-store NOI for the quarter can you talk a bit more on the drivers for the 7% growth year-over-year especially in light of the 20 basis point occupancy decline? And then with your year-to-date same-store NOI coming in around 6.5% maybe some comments on what you’re seeing and expecting in 4Q that prevents you from raising the upper end of the current range? Okay Haendel I’ll be happy to repeat some of that.
Actually the permanent occupancy went up 30 basis points and that’s far more critical than occupancy with a temporary tenant.
So the economic occupancy actually went up.
If you take a look at the impact of the expense cuts 7% for the quarter the expense savings and cuts combined were about 2.4% of that.
So that still puts us at 4.6% growth rate in the quarter excluding the expenses that help drive the number up to 7%.
As I mentioned earlier in the call fourth quarter we don’t expect to be that high because we include lease termination revenues that’s cash revenue to us it’s an active part of the mall business where you make the decision to recapture space take some cash now and create a vacancy or not.
So we included in our definition of same-store NOI.
And in the fourth quarter of last year we had about $6.8 million of lease termination revenue.
Our projection for the fourth quarter of this year is about $1 to $2 million.
So that’s about $4.8 million that’s going to have an adverse effect on that Same-center NOI number in the fourth quarter.
So we think the fourth quarter will be more like 4.5% or so and if you combine that with the first three quarters that have averaged 6.5% we end up at about 6% which is the upper end of our guidance range still very strong I might add.
Gotcha.
I appreciate the color and sorry if there was repetitive.
No problem.
Andrew Rosivach from Goldman Sachs have our next question.
Hi this is Caitlin Burrows.
The debt portion of your supplement mentions that you’re negotiating with the loan servicer for the loan associated with Flagstaff Mall which is a $350 square foot mall.
I was just wondering if you could talk through what’s going on here and how you decided to go that route? Well the debt is basically at or above the value of the center and it’s non-recourse loan and we’re transitioning that loan back to the loan servicer.
Okay.
Are there any… The only point I would add on Flagstaff is the loan only secures the mall.
The power center that is actually very well leased adjacent is not part of the loan security.
Got it.
Okay.
And I was just wondering on the $350 a square foot that that mall is doing it seems like a relatively okay amount.
So is there anything else just special about that center? In terms of the sales productivity it’s certainly in the bottom part of our portfolio.
And as Tom mentioned when we look at the value of the asset and the levels of the debt we don’t think there is equity involved that is warranted.
Okay.
Thanks.
We’ll go next to Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick ones.
Why not institute a 10b5-1 program for your share buyback where you can buy it during a blackout period? And the second question when you talk about the – your watch list does that include companies like Gap or Abercrombie where the stock price isn’t exactly the low single-digits but obviously they’re still closing a bunch of stores.
Is that in your radar screen as a potential more closures? I will try to take the second question let Tom take the first.
Companies like Gap and Abercrombie our emphasis is more on specific stores than the company themselves.
So we focus our attention really within the portfolio and in terms of figuring out which stores we have opportunities to remerchandise and get higher rents and more productivity tenants.
And you see that in some of these numbers for example at a center like the Oaks you see a pretty significant increase in sales.
And that increase was primarily because we took a low productivity Gap store low productivity Abercrombie store and combined them and leased the space to Zara.
So part of the discussion with those tenants is to work through some of these lower productivity stores as opposed to a more traditional watch list that says the company is a concern.
The first question or the first part of that one question in terms of the 10b5 plan it’s a possibility.
I mean we ‘re considering all alternatives.
We’re not going to scratch anything off the list in terms of how we go about a buyback.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question today is from Paul Adornato from BMO Capital Markets.
Hi Paul.
Hi thanks.
Tom you mentioned the improvement in gross margin I was wondering if you could help us think through that metric how it should be trending over the next two years and if that metric is an important one for management? Well I think it’s important to improve that metric.
It’s harder to measure between portfolios because we’re not making widgets here.
And obviously it’s more expensive to operate a center in an urban area like New York in a suburban market.
But I think we stepped forward about nine months ago and said that we were committing to push from margin improvement of about 400 basis points over the next two years.
We picked up 250 basis points already for the – through the first three quarters of that two-year period and we’ll continue to push forward.
Bob mentioned some of those drives that we’ve made on common area leasing that’s going to be a big part of it.
We’ve made some expense cuts this year that’ll carryforward but you can’t do that every year to the same level.
But they have contributed significantly this year.
But I think we’re going to continue to see the revenue growth that we’re going to continue to see that improvement as we go through the course of the next four or five quarters.
Thank you.
Jim Sullivan from the Cowen Group have our next question.
Thanks.
Yes I’ve got a question for Bobby on Primark.
Primark of course has performed very well in Europe in terms of productivity that’s obviously a different market than the U.S..
and they’ve opened their first store in Boston here last month.
I’m just curious as you think about the addition of Primark to two of your centers taking some of that Sears space what do you anticipate will be the impact on traffic and perhaps sales levels from retailers who might be deemed to be competitive with their merchandise mix and price point? Well we believe Primark will make a significant impact in particular on the East Coast which is where they’re starting their store strategy.
We – we’ve been talking them for two three years not only because we feel that they will make an impact but we feel our centers in particular on the East Coast are very well aligned with what their store expansion plans are.
So right now there’s two transactions that are part of the Sears portfolio.
But we’re also having a number of other discussions with them.
And again we believe our centers line up very much with what their store expansion will be.
We are very impressed with the amount of traffic they generate.
And we’re obviously very impressed with their pricing but we’re also very impressed with the physical box that they build and the way that they handle the traffic through their store.
We believe their stores will take volume from multiple people both inside and outside the mall both some fast fashion specialty format retailers but also some big box and apparel retailers outside the mall.
So we really Jim see their impact as more than just taking market share from mall tenants we see it as impacting many different venues.
I think what you’ll see is you will see the retailers adjust and become potentially been more competitive in terms of their pricing policy and it will force the retailers to become better at providing the merchandise to the customers at a more affordable price.
Good.
Thank you.
Our final question today is from Christy McElroy from Citi.
Hey it’s Michael Bilerman.
Tom I’m just curious as you think about – you’ve been working on this joint venture for the better part of 4 to 5 months.
You announced it a few weeks ago.
And the stock dividend is – or the cash dividend is pretty easy to model in because you sort of had to return the capital.
But I’m curious on the stock buyback why you haven’t crystallized a more firmer plan and why you’re just not just doing a Dutch tender to take back and do it all at once rather than leaving some of this uncertainty.
I guess I’m curious why a decision hasn’t been made as you knew this was coming? Well Michael for starters until the window opened early was nothing we could do and there are business reasons not to disclose and chip our hand as to how and when we’re going to do it obviously we’re going to be in the market buying back shares.
So in many respects the more detail you give up there the more works against you as you try to accomplish that goal.
So we’re going to keep all those possibilities out there and consider all of them and I would expect us to be active as we go through the rest of the year.
Well that I think that was the last question.
I’d like to thank everybody for joining us on the call today.
And looking forward to see most of you in NAREIT next month.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our conference today.
Thank you all for your participation.
Welcome to the Macerich Company Fourth Quarter 2015 earnings call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jean Wood Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you everyone for joining us today on our fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
During the course of this call management may make certain statements that may be deemed forward-looking within the meaning of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially due to a variety of risks uncertainties and other factors.
We refer you to today's press release and our SEC filings for a detailed discussion of forward-looking statements.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the earnings release and the supplemental filed on Form 8-K with the SEC.
These are posted in the Investors section of the company's website at www.macerich.com.
Joining us today are Art Coppola CEO and Chairman; Tom O'Hern Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Robert Perlmutter Executive Vice President Leasing; John Perry Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Jean.
Consistent with the past practice we will be limiting the call to an hour.
If we run out of time and you still have questions please do not hesitate to call me or John Perry or Jean.
The fourth quarter reflected continued operational excellence as evidenced by the strength of our key operating metrics.
We saw the successful completion of our joint venture strategy the completion of a number of highly attractive financings the reinvestment of capital into our best assets through redevelopment and share buybacks.
We will talk about these in greater detail later in the call.
We continue to see very significant benefit from our efforts in 2012 through 2015 to sell non-core slower growing assets and redeploying that capital into higher quality more productive assets.
Looking at the leasing activity we had good volume in the fourth quarter.
We signed – on leases under 10 000 square feet we had 313 000 square feet signed positive re-leasing spread on a trailing 12-month basis of 14.2%.
Looking at mall occupancy it came in at 96.1% up 30 basis points from 12/31 of ‘14 and up 70 basis points from our occupancy level at the end of the third quarter.
Average mall store base rents also increased to $54.32 up from $51.15 a year ago.
FFO for the quarter came in at $1.12 that compared to $0.99 for the quarter ended December 31 2014.
Same center NOI increased by 6.4% in the quarter and year-to-date NOI – same center NOI growth was a sector leading 6.5%.
This increase was driven by increased occupancy double-digit re-leasing spreads annual rent increases and aggressive operating cost management.
Looking at the gross margin at the centers it improved to 71% for the quarter up from 68.6% in the fourth quarter of last year.
Looking at the year-to-date margin it improved by 250 basis points to 69.3% compared to 66.8% for the full year 2014.
Bad debt expense for the quarter was up slightly at $1 million compared to $800 000 in the fourth quarter last year.
The average interest rate at 3.6% was slightly higher than 3.48% average rate at the end of 2014.
The balance sheet continues to be in great shape.
At quarter end looking at the key balance sheet metrics debt to market cap was 34% interest coverage ratio was a very strong 4.0 times debt to EBITDA on a forward basis 7.2 times.
The average debt maturity and this is after the Arrowhead financing and the closing of the joint ventures is six years up significantly from a few years ago.
We did a total of about $3 billion in financing in 2015 and within the past quarter we did $1.8 billion they could include Arrowhead 12-year loan $400 million at 4.05%.
Los Cerritos another 12-year loan at 4%.
Washington Square a $550 million loan 3.65% seven years.
South Plains Twenty-Ninth Street also refinanced.
So that was $1.825 billion in financings average tenure of 10.1 years at an average interest rate of 3.94%.
In mid-November we set about to execute on our $1.2 billion of approved share buyback.
We engaged an investment bank to do a $400 million accelerated stock repurchase program.
At the beginning of that program we received and retired 4.1 million shares when the plan started which was November 13 and the balance of the shares were to be delivered based on the average daily volume adjusted price of MAC during the buying period less a negotiated discount.
On January 20 2016 the ASR program was completed.
Effectively MAC bought back $400 million worth of shares at $78.26.
We received another 971 000 shares at that time.
So this program the first ASR under the $1.2 billion program retired in total 5.1 million shares.
Also since the last call we had two special dividends that resulted from the joint venture transactions they reached $2.
One was paid in December and one in January.
In our press release this morning we provided 2016 FFO per share guidance the range was $4.05 to $4.15.
The guidance assumptions included same center NOI growth of 4.5% to 5% which is very significant given that 2015 is a tough comparison year having come in at 6.5%.
The acquisition and guidance includes a $330 million of our share of Country Club Plaza which has been previously announced and also reflects roughly $1 billion of dispositions which relates to the joint venture interest that we closed in January with Heitman and GIC.
The other assumptions are included in the 8-K supplement filed last night.
Our NOI guidance for 2016 is consistent with the guidance we gave in early 2015 after adjusting for the impact of the joint ventures.
At this point I would like to turn it over to Bobby to discuss the leasing environment.
Thanks Tom.
The leasing activity during the fourth quarter remained strong reflecting the high quality nature of the company's shopping centers.
Occupancy increased to 96.1% which represented a 30 basis point year-over-year increase.
Permanent occupancy ended the year at 90.5% temporary occupancy increased to 5.6% which reflects the bankruptcies incurred at the end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015.
During 2015 a total of 250 000 square feet was converted from temporary to permanent occupancy.
Leasing spreads were 14.2% again indicating strong demand for space in the portfolio.
Leasing spreads were strongest in the East and West Coast centers.
Average rent for leases signed in 2015 was $57.41 per square foot this represented a 5.4% increase over the prior year.
During the year we signed leases for approximately 4 million square feet which was a 2.4% increase over 2014.
The average lease term for leases signed in 2015 was 6.2 years.
Portfolio sales increased by 8.2% year-over-year to $635 per square foot.
Comparable center sales increased by 7.6% year-over-year.
Sales increases were highest in the West Coast and Arizona centers.
And during 2015 sales were positively impacted by: one high-volume tenants; two strong categories such as home furnishings jewelry cosmetics and athletic footwear; three organic growth from merchants with strong brands; and four store closures of underproductive tenants.
Tourism.
While our portfolio only has moderate exposure to international tourist and luxury business we have seen certain centers impacted by tourism and the stronger US dollar.
Most notable in our portfolio is Fashion Outlets of Niagara Falls whose sales have been impacted by the steep decline in the Canadian dollar.
Holiday sales.
Most retailers are indicating holiday sales were in line with our expectations.
Black Friday sales are being distributed over most of the week starting with pre-Thanksgiving sales.
Retailers are also reporting the last few days before Christmas as well as the post-Christmas activity was stronger than expected.
Many retailers were promotional to up the entire season we believe this is likely to increase the strain on those stores under financial pressure.
In general it appears that specialty stores fared better than department stores during the holiday season.
2014 and 2015 bankruptcies.
As we discussed during the third quarter earnings call we expect bankruptcies and rent relief requests in 2016 to be at similar or higher levels than in 2015.
This is reflected in our 2016 forecasts.
We believe many of these retailers are likely to restructure and reduce the number of locations within their fleet as opposed to liquidate the entire chain.
This is likely to impact lower productivity centers to a greater degree.
During 2014 and 2015 there were 11 major store closings or bankruptcies that impacted 134 stores or 413 000 square feet within our portfolio.
The average rent for these stores was $54 per square foot they generated sales of $241 per square foot and had an occupancy cost of 22.6%.
As of 12/31/15 66% of the space has been re-leased resulting in a significant upgrade to the merchandise mix improved sales productivity and a rent spread in the high-single-digits.
eCommerce.
We are continuing to learn how retailers use their brick-and-mortar stores as a key component to support growth in their eCommerce sales.
A number of important trends are emerging.
One the brick-and-mortar stores are integral to the eCommerce efforts.
Two BOPUS bought online picked up in stores is becoming increasingly important to retailers.
Three online sales have a high percentage of returns especially on apparel.
Four physical store sales are reduced by online returns which reduces reported sales for brick-and-mortar locations.
Five the customers enter the mall equipped with more information from the web than ever before.
Six pure eTailers are migrating into brick-and-mortar stores generating new leasing opportunities.
And seven physical store presence improves online sales.
These trends are supported by recent customer research conducted at a cross-section of Macerich centers.
The research indicated that lower average expenditures and shorter trip durations were more than offset by increased frequency of visits and higher conversion rates.
We firmly believe that stores located in densely populated trade areas will benefit the most and increase in importance to the retailer.
Big boxes.
Throughout the portfolio there is strong demand for big box users larger than 10 000 square feet.
We have increased our exposure with retailers such as T.J.
Maxx Home Goods Ulta and Nordstrom Rack.
These retailers have opened stores across the portfolio including enclosed centers open air centers as well as lower productivity centers.
In addition during the fourth quarter we signed a lease with JCPenney at Inland Center to open in the former Gottschalks building.
JCPenney is on track for an opening in the fourth quarter of 2016.
We continue to devote additional resources to activate the common areas of our centers.
Efforts are orientated towards permanent kiosks and business development opportunities as well as incubation of online retailers into physical stores.
Multiple goals for the common area include revenue enhancement improved presentation and an elevated customer experience.
Development leasing at the development projects remains on track.
At Broadway Plaza we have 87% of the expansion space under executed leases.
We are very pleased with the merchandise mix and eager for the majority of the expansion to open during the second quarter of 2016.
This will add to our existing anchors of Nordstrom Macy's and Neiman Marcus.
At Green Acres Commons anchored by Dick's Sporting Goods we have 85% of the space under executed leases and are anticipating a third-quarter opening in 2016.
Finally we have completed the public financing agreements and are moving forward with the development of Fashion Outlets of Philadelphia in partnership with PREIT.
This project is anticipated to be completed in late 2018 or early 2019 and will incorporate approximately 775 000 square feet of retail area.
With that I’d like to turn it over to Art.
Thank you Bobby.
Thanks Tom.
That’s a lot to cover so I'm going to cover just a few other items and then we will open it up to Q&amp;A.
As you can see our operating results were terrific on every level whether it be margin improvement occupancy levels rents that we have in place in the portfolio re-leasing spreads all of these are factors that contributed to a very significant same center NOI growth rate in 2015 and gives us optimism into the future as to our growth patterns over the next couple of years.
It is hard to predict what is going to happen obviously in the retail broader environment.
And there are many factors that could influence that up or down.
But we recognize that if you think about all of the different levers that we can pull that can create shareholder value that there probably is no lever more important than having the maximum possible same center NOI growth pattern.
Developments redevelopments these are also extremely value creation but they obviously have capital that gets deployed as part of that process.
It is a permanent lever that we will be pulling in the redevelopment arena or the new development arena.
And we’ve got a very strong track record of positive results from those activities and we anticipate that the projects that are underway right now will continue to drive value for us going forward.
Another lever that we didn't anticipate that we were going to be able to pull that gave us the opportunity we feel to create value here was the selective disposition of a non-core asset Panorama Mall in November of this past year.
And the agreement with Macerich and Taubman to purchase Country Club Plaza in Kansas City from Highwood Properties.
That closing is anticipated to close March 1st.
The gross price is $660 million with a 50% anticipated loan to value that we anticipate will be put on the property.
Most all of our equity will be funded through the disposition proceeds that we generated from Panorama.
Country Club Plaza is an iconic 15 block 1.3 million square foot mixed-use retail and office property located in the heart of Kansas City.
It is well known throughout the industry and we believe that jointly with Taubman we will be successful in taking that property up to an even higher level of performance from where it is right now.
We are very pleased to have completed the joint ventures that we did.
That was a very significant and large capital decision a capital recycling decision.
And to effectively have raised new capital in the private markets through joint ventures that was used to fund either -- both the special dividend that we paid out as well as to fund the stock buyback program that we have announced.
And we are pleased that just a couple of months after announcing the $1.2 billion authorization that we have got over a third -- we've got about -- a third of that has been accomplished and delivered to date.
So we’re very happy about that.
The status on the new developments I think we are in very good shape there.
If you take a look at Philadelphia the redevelopment of Broadway Plaza the addition of the theater at Santa Monica Place the expansion of Green Acres the recycling of the Sears building ultimately at Kings Plaza and Fashion Outlets of San Francisco we think we are in a very good position for those projects to deliver good shareholder value into the future.
But again I would reiterate that obviously on a risk-adjusted basis we see the opportunity to generate strong same center NOI growth as being one of the most attractive levers that we can pull in creating shareholder value.
So with that operator I would like to open it up for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Hey.
Thanks.
In thinking about comping against the tougher same-store NOIs how much more room do you have in terms of the aggressive operating cost management? Craig some of that will flow into 2016.
We really set out to do that in the second quarter so we will probably have a quarter and a half of that which will positively benefit 2016.
We really pretty aggressively manage those we will continue to do that.
But I don't think we will see the same kind of cuts in 2016 as we had in 2015.
It is hard to duplicate.
I think we can maintain what we did but it is going to be hard to replicate the same amount.
And then -- and when thinking about possibly selling some more of your non-core assets how many more assets would you like to sell out of the portfolio? We really don't have a number per se.
It is really opportunistic at this point.
We've really taken the portfolio in terms of its composition to where we wanted to get it with well over 95% of our NOI being fortress type of income.
So anything that we do going forward the way that we think about it is that dispositions will be there as a source of capital for us over the next say three to five years to fund opportunities whether they be development redevelopment or potentially even an acquisition of something.
So there is no specific number but we clearly do intend to periodically continue to prune the portfolio and to recycle the capital.
Funding the purchase of a great center like Country Club Plaza with the disposition of a very mature kind of enclosed community center equity source of capital is really from my viewpoint a great trade for the company.
And likewise funding development and redevelopment capital going forward through selling off non-core assets is also to me a very sensible thing to do.
Thank you.
And next we have a question from Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Hi.
I have two quick leasing questions.
First where do you see lease spreads settling in 2016? It looks like you ended 2015 with about a 14% average.
And then Bobby I think you said that the average duration on leases signed in 2015 was 6.2 years.
And just out of curiosity is that shorter than it has historically been and can you give us a little color on that? Sure in terms of the first question our target is to maintain mid-teen spreads.
The nature of the statistics sometimes it will bump up sometimes it will bump down.
But our goal is for mid-teen spreads.
And we believe based on current market conditions we can achieve that.
In terms of the average lease term it's actually increasing.
As the portfolio has improved in quality over the last three years we have seen that number increase to longer durations.
Okay thanks.
And our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim.
Thank you.
Going back to your comments on retailer bankruptcies that might be a little bit more this year than last year.
How much of that is actually configured into your guidance? I see that your bad debt expense is kept flat from an assumption standpoint this year versus last year while your lease termination income ticked up $5 million.
So I was just curious if you’ve taken some kind of reserve for those expectations? Well it's resulted in more conservative revenue assumptions on the lease up.
There has been some rent concession conversation that has also been factored into the 2016 guidance.
The increase in lease termination revenue is just because we currently are in discussion with a number of tenants so that is a specific number.
Generally we assume $10 million to $11 million going into a year as our assumption based on history.
And so we still have that general assumption but we had a few specific tenants that we have been negotiating with which is also a byproduct of what Bobby said is typically when you have times when you have store closures it is not always bankruptcies and it can tend to lead to more lease termination revenue.
Okay and just a follow-up.
Bob I mean we are a couple of months more into it than your last conference call.
Anything incremental that you've discovered more on your retailers? I would say not really.
We haven't noticed a significant difference in discussions with tenants.
The tenants that we are in discussion is pretty much the same group as we talked about in the third quarter.
So I think the holiday season didn't provide any surprises negatively or positively.
Okay thank you.
And next we have Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neil.
Hello.
Good morning out there.
Just a few questions.
First on the same-store NOI guidance I think on the second quarter call last year you guys talked about trying to maintain sort of a 6% number sort of like what you delivered in ‘15 over the next few years.
This year the NOI guidance is below that but yet the bottom-line FFO number exceeds what the Street was expecting.
So can you just help us walk-through if we should expect same-store NOI to get back to that 6% number? Or maybe there are some non-same-store items that are really driving the FFO beat relative to consensus.
Yes the two -- well first I will take the NOI question Alex.
There was a comment made in July of ‘15 that you know it was a caveat that it wasn't guidance but that internally we were hoping to see same center NOI growth as 6% over the next couple years.
And you very well -- when you combine 2015 and 2016 it could average to close to 6%.
I will say that subsequent to July the leasing environment has been viewed more cautiously as before.
In fact looking at some comments made by my colleague to my right here Bob Perlmutter one of his quotes was looking towards the end of the year we are anticipating that bankruptcies are likely to be comparable or higher than in previous years.
And he went on at some length in fact to the extent that internally he earned himself as a result of that call the nickname of Dark Cloud.
So I would say that through the second half of the year we became more cautious as it related to the leasing environment and that certainly affected the 6% growth rate that had been discussed earlier in the year.
In terms of the FFO number a lot of components in there Alex.
Obviously the joint ventures which happened late in the year all financing activity which came in at extremely attractive rates all those things affected the FFO number as well as the buybacks and the accretion from those.
We did have a lot of cash on the balance sheet which is dilutive.
So there are many factors that went into the ultimate FFO number.
And then the second question is on the development schedule one it looks like a few projects got pushed back a year.
Maybe it is just as you get more into planning stuff trues up.
But also the spend on Philly increased as well as the time line lengthened.
So if you could just provide some perspective on that? Sure.
I’ll take Philly and then I will let Bob talk about the timing.
On Philly in the shadow report we have been netting out the city assistance.
There is roughly $90 million of city assistance which has been to a large degree solidified.
And so we are now showing the gross number for the project and not netting it by the city assistance.
Most of that city assistance will come in the form of a TIF.
And under GAAP TIF income is recognized as income not a reduction of costs.
So that’s why that is grossed up.
It really hasn't been as a result of a change of the scope of the project.
Yes Alex in terms of timing I don't think it is anything significant other than really working through the pre-development process.
Both of these projects are complicated projects.
They are mixed use projects and it's taken some time to get it through the pre-development process get the pre-leasing commitments that we needed and ultimately move them to the under construction pipeline.
Okay and then just finally on Philly then.
Tom if the city assistance is now in the gross number the yield -- is the yield that we should think about the project returning is that on the net basis or that’s inclusive of the gross of the city's contribution? It is a function of the gross cost and the income from the TIF is included in calculating that 8% return.
Okay thank you.
It really is a function of just following GAAP on that.
We weren't sure in the very beginning exactly what the format would be of the various assistance vehicles that we were able to attain.
But the one -- and we exceeded our expectations on that side of things.
So we are ready to go and it is really just now as we move it into the in-process pipeline taking a look at how the GAAP numbers would require us to treat it.
Our next question will come from Todd Thomas with KeyBanc.
Appreciate the comments around eCom and brick-and-mortar.
Just given all of those comments around buy online pickup in-store and the impact returns have on store sales how are conversations changing with retailers when you negotiate leases? And how are you setting rent with all of those factors in mind? This is Bob Perlmutter.
I think your initial reaction is well we want to capture these sales for percentage rent.
But that is not really the way we are looking at it.
What we are really trying to do is understand the amounts and the impacts of all of the different eCommerce strategies on the brick-and-mortar.
Not with the goal of gaining more percentage rent but with the goal in terms of understanding how important these locations are with the retailers.
So we’re learning we are teaming up with certain outside professionals we are using rights we have under our lease.
And it is really to understand how the physical store influences the eCommerce.
And it is more than just what are their reported sales.
Also just to add to that.
Look we think of ourselves as an omni-channel landlord an omni-channel owner.
And in that context we see our duty and our opportunity to our retailers to be not only to provide them with the physical space in the mall but to also support other activities that they have like buy online deliver from store -- things of that nature.
So it’s an evolving business but the one thing that is clear to us -- and this kind of goes back as a follow on to some of the same center conversations.
I’d say that the most important factor that drives your same center NOI growth is the leasing demand and the rents that you can achieve.
And our team -- and we are not unusual but our team is extremely well aware of what these locations are worth to retailers.
And there is no science that they should pay X percent of sales per se.
We just factor everything in and the mark-to-market that we have been able to put up over the past many years has been with double-digit leasing spreads.
And we see the opportunity to continue those kind of spreads as being very clearly in front of us.
And the evolution of brick-and-mortar retailers into more omni-channel retailers makes physical stores more valuable to them.
They’re valuable not only from the viewpoint of what they sell from the store but they're also valuable as a service to their customers for customers to buy online and then bring it back to the store and exchange it for something else.
So they think of all of their activities and as Bobby was saying it’s really -- it is not so important the exact sales number it is really more having a knowledge of what is important to that particular retailer and then that helps you to drive the rents.
And if you have must-have real estate which is our goal here then you are able to put up very good numbers.
All right thank you.
Just lastly apologies if I missed it.
But Tom typically you’ve given the quarterly percent weighting of FFO throughout the year.
Do you have that by chance? We will provide that later Todd I don't have that with me at the moment.
And next we have Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
I have a question for Dark Cloud actually.
Mr.
Cloud your mall landlord friends this quarter on their calls have specifically said that bankruptcies are going down in 2016 versus 2015.
And I am curious are the tenants that you are concerned about in their properties too or are you seeing unique guys in your properties I guess in your portfolio that aren't in theirs? I really can't speak for the other companies.
I can tell you that the tenants that we are dealing with obviously have footprints beyond our centers.
And again none of the groups that we’re speaking with would be a surprise to anybody given the press and the public markets pricing of these retailers.
Rich I really wouldn't -- look we are trying -- people love to have a pulse on where we see the near-term for the business.
Look I hope that Bobby's caution here is not reflected in increased bankruptcies.
I hope that we have fewer.
But we’re really just trying to give you our all-in view of where we see things.
But I would want to reiterate that in putting out the results that we just have attained in 2015 and as we see the opportunities into 2016 we see the demand for our properties to be very strong.
So maybe we’re being a little too cautious time will tell.
But we are telling you what’s in our assumption and assumptions are exactly that.
In terms of the tenant bases they are spread throughout the portfolio.
In terms of when the tenant ultimately comes and makes a decision on which stores to keep the potential is always the lower quality assets will be more effective through store closings.
Okay.
And could you maybe go through the tiers and let us know where the occupancy costs are across the portfolio? I am not sure that we disclose that information in the supplement.
Okay then as an alternate can you tell us what sales growth -- I'm sorry I'm sorry.
It's okay it’s in the supplement.
So you’ve got the top 10 assets the cost of occupancy was 13.4% and those top 10 assets generated 28% of our NOI but if you go through page 13 and 14 They are relatively stable throughout the -- In the supplement you are going to see that it is pretty much an average of mid-13 occupancy for every grouping.
Okay.
And finally was wondering if you had sales growth productivity excluding Apple and then excluding Tesla.
No we are not going to disclose that information.
Okay thank you.
And next we have Christie McElroy with Citi.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Christy.
Hi.
Just following up on your greater caution in 2016 contributing to that more conservative same-store NOI guidance are you expecting re-leasing spreads could potentially compress or see a potential occupancy decline over the next year? And are you changing anything in terms of capital allocation strategy as a result of that greater caution like might you potentially pull back on development spend? In terms of answering the last question clearly over the last three years we’ve tried to manage our portfolio and reduce our exposure to retailers that we felt were weaker.
That happens more in the existing portfolio than in terms of new developments which we obviously target the strongest retailers in the market for.
In terms of where it impacts us our position on many of the bankruptcies has been that as part of a restructuring you are investing in the retailer's business and we only want to invest in the retailers that we think have good long-term viability.
And because of that we have probably taken a little bit more stringent stance on not restructuring with certain retailers who have gone through bankruptcy.
The net impact for us is a short-term negative in terms of potential loss of occupancy.
But we think a long-term positive in terms of being able to replace the stores with stronger retailers at higher rents.
Okay.
And then just on Country Club Plaza.
Can you talk about the importance of bringing in Taubman as a financial partner what they bring to the table and why do they have leasing responsibility? Well we are doing everything jointly.
So from a merchandising viewpoint Bobby and a couple of his key lieutenants and the person that runs leasing at Taubman they have been collaborating and putting together a merchandising plan.
And it is really going to be I think relationship driven.
But as we sit down and we identify which tenants we think that we want to either move out or to move in whichever team has the better relationship with that tenant will take the lead.
But you should think of it as joint right on all major decisions and a whole bunch of operating decisions.
We did have to decide who was going to be the manager and Taubman wanted to do the day-to-day management and we were fine with that.
Our focus with them is going to be more thinking about the marketing merchandising and potential expansion opportunities that are available at the property.
So why did we do it together? We just both thought that it was a great opportunity and we knew it was going to be a competitive situation in terms of bidding and there were many bidders.
We felt that the opportunity to be successful in buying it would be maximized if we joined together to buy it.
And so far I think that we both feel very good about this investment opportunity.
And it may have been that doing it together is what resulted in the best thinking in terms of coming up with the confidence to pay the price that was required here.
Thank you.
So we feel very good about the thesis and it is playing out I believe well.
And we think that the Plaza has terrific upside.
And I think time will tell but I think you are going to see some very significant opportunities for us to generate value there.
I'm going to jump in here for a second before the next question.
In respect to Todd Thomas' question on the quarterly split of FFO Todd that’s 20% in the first quarter 23% in the second quarter 26% in the third quarter and 31% in the fourth quarter.
Thanks Tom.
Our next question will come from Floris van Dijkum with Boenning.
A quick question I noticed that you guys are – in terms of capital allocation you’ve historically spent most of your money on your A malls.
You’ve now got three of your lower tier malls in the – potentially under development; Westside South Park and Paradise Valley.
Can you touch upon your – how you think about allocating capital and what kind of redevelopment plans that might entail? When we have something specific to – in the way of a plan we will bring those forward.
I think those have been in the supplement in that manner for at least the last couple of quarters if not more.
But we have a number of different development plans for each of the ones that you mentioned.
And fundamentally we think that they are sitting on very good real estate and that there will be opportunities.
But that is why they are in the shadow pipeline not the in-process pipeline because we have not identified the exact plan we want to pursue or the numbers that would be associated with that plan.
Does that answer your question? Yes it does.
Can you maybe also touch upon your Sears joint venture and how many of your 10 Sears assets do you expect to start maybe this year? I know that none of those are in the development pipeline yet but what do you think is feasible before year end and what kind of returns are you expecting? Well actually two of them are going to be – have currently already had Sears downsize and turn over about half of each of the two buildings to Primark one is at Freehold and one is at Danbury.
And those both – so Sears has already shrunk and Primark will be opening in the summer.
Those were deals that were in process when we first started the conversation with Sears but those will happen this year yet.
And then the others we are at different points of thinking through the opportunities.
These were long-term investments that we made here.
And we think that there is long-term that from the protection of the overall value of the properties owning the key pieces of land is tremendously important.
But also we think that there are fundamental opportunities to be generated from each of them some will be bigger some will be smaller.
And as we identify the opportunities we will talk about them.
But we are not feeling any rush to say okay all 10 of them have been redeveloped or repositioned.
We like the optionality that we have of being involved here.
We are working together with Seritage to come up with the best plans that we can come up with.
And as we come up with those plans then we will go ahead and move forward towards implementing them.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And next we will take a question Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Yeah.
Hi this is George on for Tayo.
Just wondering if you could comment on the trends in asking rents in terms of how are they trending on a year-over-year basis.
I know you're seeing that leasing spreads have moderated a bit but just looking at asking rents themselves.
Probably the best measure we can give you is the one I stated earlier that quoted the 15 leases versus the 14 executed leases.
I think it was 5.4% increase.
The setting of market rents is not – is more of an art than a science.
There is many many factors that go into it whether it’s a new lease or renewal what’s the use how big the space how much frontage what are the options that the tenant has in the market.
So it is not an exact science.
And as we have talked a lot about in the past we find that the dominant assets in the densely populated trade areas where the retailers have limited options always drive the highest rents.
Okay thanks.
And are you noticing any trends geographically? As I said earlier from a leasing standpoint the strongest rates and spreads were on the East Coast and the West Coast.
Okay thanks.
And any update you can provide on Fashion Outlets of San Francisco and the plans there? No not yet.
We're still working on it.
And there is lots of infrastructure work that our partner is in the middle of performing.
And as we get more specific in terms of the size and the returns available we will obviously be more specific at that point in time.
Okay thanks.
And we have no further questions.
We'll turn it back over to Art.
Thank you very much for joining us.
As you can see we feel that we had a terrific year and we see our prospects for the future are very very good.
We are aware of broader economic conditions that could have an influence on those results but fundamentally we feel very good about where we are.
And we look forward to meeting with you further and answering any questions that you may have in the near-term.
So thank you very much for joining us.
And that concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.