Hello and welcome to McDonald's April 21 2011 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions]  I'd now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Cathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
With me on the call are Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner; Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen; and Chief Operating Officer Don Thompson.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Jim I want to remind everyone that as always the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both of these documents are available at www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are any reconciliations off non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
So now I'll turn it over to Jim.
Thank you Cathy.
Good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to share McDonald's latest quarterly results which reflect the continued strength of our business.
The first quarter worldwide comparable sales were up 4.2%.
Operating income increased 7% in constant currencies and EPS reached $1.15 a 12% increase in constant currencies.
And our success continues to be a systemwide effort.
In the United States comparable sales for the quarter increased 2.9% while operating income declined 2% as it was negatively impacted by a 4 percentage point decline on our operating gains against 2010.
Comparable sales in Europe rose a healthy 5.7% and operating income grew 12% in constant currencies.
In Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa or APMEA comp sales grew 3.2% and operating income rose 18% in constant currencies.
The 2010 charge for Japan's strategic restaurant closings benefited APMEA's 2011 growth rate by 12 percentage points and the consolidated growth rate by 2 percentage points.
And our momentum is continuing into April with our global comparable sales trending in line or better than the first quarter.
These results are a testament to the continued relevance of our Plan to Win and its relentless focus on those five P's: people products place price and promotion.
Now the economic climate is still less than ideal from a slow and uneven recovery to significantly rising commodity costs and fragile consumer confidence.
But we continue to succeed by staying true to our proven plans and listening to consumers.
We're elevating our business to meet their needs in a holistic way with attention paid to each 1 of the growth priorities under our Plan to Win:  optimizing the menu with right food and beverage offerings modernizing the customer experience by upgrading every aspect of our restaurants from service to design and broadening our accessibility through continued convenience and value initiatives.
Now it's not just 1 initiative but the combination of all of them that is driving our growth.
This approach isn't revolutionary it's evolutionary.
We focus on improvements on top of an already strong and healthy base.
The alignment of the McDonald's system around our global growth drivers and then scaling and executing against each of them is what will continue to grow our business and increase our market share.
In the area of menu we're delivering results by focusing on our core offerings which drives the majority of our business.
At the same time we balance this with new food and beverage news around relevant products that our customers want.
We're tapping into opportunities to further build key categories from chicken and beef to beverages and breakfast and we're already in a number of billion-dollar brands as you know to leverage along the way.
And with the benefit of shared learnings from markets around the world we will continue to deliver a strong global pipeline for today and into the future.
In chicken we've taken a well-known brand McNuggets and featured larger sharing portions with great success.
In January the United States drove double-digit sales increases in the product with their promotion of 20-piece McNuggets.
While the U.K.
launched the 20-piece ShareBox resulted in sales that were more than double in the initial projections.
And Australia continued to see success with its popular new chicken bites a smaller bite-size chicken offering.
And they're testing several oven-baked chicken offerings as part of our efforts to keep innovating in that category.
Beef continues to provide opportunities with products like our iconic Big Mac and more recent additions like the Angus burger.
Several markets celebrated the 40th anniversary of the Big Mac.
And in France the Double Cheeseburger continues to be a strong seller throughout the quarter.
Line extensions and locally relevant limited time offers continue to drive gains across the system.
Europe has been doing this with great success and our other areas of the world are taking the learnings and applying them to grow their business.
Japan hit the mark with its highly popular Big America 2 burger campaign.
In February the U.S.
entered the Chipotle and Bacon flavor to its line of Angus burger and Snack Wraps which drove total Angus burger sales to their highest rate in nearly a years and increased total unit movement by more than 30%.
And this month Canada is launching its new line of Angus burgers.
U.S.
is targeting additional opportunities for line extensions and limited time offerings in both beef and chicken as it explores the use of Artisan breads and a variety of toppings and they're taking really a page out of Europe's playbook.
Turning to beverages we're in the early stages of leveraging this platform around the world.
In the U.S.
the winter months helped to boost our growing line of hot McCafé offerings with sales of specialty coffees increasing 17% from a year ago.
The U.S.
will build on this momentum with the launch of a frozen strawberry lemonade in May along with the new unique smoothie flavor this summer and a re-hit of the popular value drinks.
Beverages in the U.S.
are a $146 billion business and we have only scratched the surface on our opportunity there.
Beverages are also important outside the United States.
In China we have more than 145 McCafés and in Europe more than 1 350.
And in other markets such as Canada and Australia they're testing various products from the U.S.
lineup of specialty coffees and blended ice drinks.
Now let me wrap up the discussion on menu with breakfast.
In the United States food news from the quarter was the launch of Fruit &amp; Maple Oatmeal which you all heard about which strengthened our overall nutritional profile and gave customers another great-tasting high-quality option not only at breakfast but all day long.
And China and Japan both made gains at breakfast through a combination of compelling value and focus on strong menu offerings.
Now regarding Japan our thoughts continue to be with the Japanese people as they work to put their devastation behind them and rebuild their country.
Our business in Japan was certainly impacted and continues to face some challenges although the effect on our overall income as you know is minor.
Our foremost concern is to ensure the welfare of our people and then getting all of our restaurants back up and running.
I want to take this opportunity to thank the entire McDonald's system for its support and everyone on our Japan team for all they're doing to help their people their country and their business.
So in addition to menu we're driving gains by making our restaurants even better and more relevant for our guests.
We're staying focused on improved service through training technology and an unyielding commitment to operations excellence.
All of this is helping to lift customer satisfaction scores across our system especially in APMEA with China and Japan continuing to lead the way in service and hospitality and Australia which scored its highest customer satisfaction marks ever in January.
In addition more than 70% of our APMEA markets have increased their peak hour guest counts through optimized operations and capacity initiatives.
U.S.
and Europe also achieved higher customer satisfaction scores and Europe continues to make our dining experience more convenient than ever.
France and Southern Europe are equipping an additional 250 restaurants with self order kiosks to deliver a more convenient ordering experience while the U.K.
is bring a touch prepayment option to all of its 1 200 restaurants this summer providing even greater speed and convenience for our customers.
And the new more user-friendly POS system that we've talked about is now in 7 500 restaurants across the U.S.
and it's easing the job of our crew so they can spend more time on customer service.
We're also continuing to ramp up our systemwide reimaging efforts with all areas of the world focused on making our restaurants more contemporary and in tune with modern demands and tastes.
Australia and Europe remained out in front on this effort with the U.S.
making progress and planning to complete 600 reimages this year.
In Europe we're targeting 850 reimages and another 500 in Asia.
We continue to see the desired results from our reimaging with improved perceptions of our brand and higher sales differentiating McDonald's from the rest.
Our brand our business and our operators are all strong making this the perfect time to invest in our future.
Finally we're driving the business by continuing to make our brand more accessible and in step with how customers work and live.
In the U.S.
we're delivering greater convenience and accessibility through extended hours which also continue to drive sales and guest counts.
In APMEA we're building on our convenience by advancing our dessert kiosks and delivery service in Korea as well as China where each platform is achieving double-digit comp sales.
And we're opening new restaurants in markets where the opportunity exists to strengthen penetration to expand our customer base including China and many countries in Asia as well as Russia France and Italy.
Meanwhile we remain committed to value across our menu as consumers everywhere continue to count on McDonald's for everyday brand and affordability.
In the United States our Dollar Menu at breakfast continues to be a strong traffic driver.
Our Dollar Menu the rest of the day remains a consistent highly valued platform for our consumers.
Across Europe markets have put an emphasis on everyday affordability like the U.K.
Saver Menu and Little Tasters that give consumers a wider range of menu and price options.
And in APMEA value remains an important part of our business with our popular Value Lunch program driving strong results in numerous markets.
Now those are a few highlights of how we have  maintained our strength into 2011 and how we'll continue to drive success.
Executing all these drivers and building the business for the long term is achieved through our world-class owner/operators suppliers crew and staff.
Together we're committed to supporting the restaurants that serve our 64 million customers every day whether it's through our training classes in Hamburger University which is celebrating its 50th year or by hiring new employees to better serve our growing customer base as we did earlier this week in the United States and Canada during National Hiring Days.
We also remain committed to our Plan to Win strategy as well as our philosophy of financial discipline and enhanced shareholder value.
We continue to have a healthy balance sheet the highest credit rating in the industry and a robust business that generated $6.3 billion in cash from operations in 2010.
After reinvesting in the business we remain committed to returning all of our free cash flow over the long term to investors through our combination of dividends and share repurchase.
And in the first quarter we bought back 18.4  million shares totaling $1.4 billion and paid a dividend of $0.61 per share for an additional $635 million.
Now overall I am pleased by our first quarter performance.
The fundamentals of our business remains strong and our entire system is aligned behind our proven strategies in delivering the very best customer experience every time.
And with that I will now turn it over to Pete Bensen.
Thanks Jim.
Hello everyone.
Our Plan to Win strategy with a balance across the five Ps continues to deliver higher sales and improved profitability.
Against the backdrop of tentative and uneven improvement in the global economy systemwide sales increased 6% in constant currency in the first quarter.
Operating income reached $1.8 billion up 7% in constant currencies and combined operating margin reached 29.9%.
The largest driver of operating income is our franchise margins representing nearly 70% of consolidated restaurant margin dollars.
Franchise margin dollars rose to $1.6 billion an 8% increase in constant currencies with each area of the world contributing.
Consolidated franchise margin percent rose 70 basis points to 81.9% as positive comparable sales more than offset cost increases.
Before I turn to company operating margins I wanted to provide some perspective on our updated commodity cost outlook and how we view pricing in relation to some of the increased pressures on margins.
Since January the global commodity markets have experienced significant increases.
As a result we expect additional pressure as we move throughout the year especially in the U.S.
We are seeing cost increases on virtually every item in our basket with beef accounting for about 1/3 of the additional increase.
Reduced herd sizes increased demand and a weaker U.S.
dollar driving up exports are all contributing to the increase in beef costs.
As a result our U.S.
grocery basket is now projected to be up about 4% to 4.5% for the year with greater pressure to be experienced in the second and third quarters.
In Europe our range of increase has narrowed as we now expect commodities to rise 4% to 4.5% this year.
This is not significantly different from our previous guidance as many of the global factors impacting U.S.
commodities are having a smaller impact in Europe.
Our goal in managing our supply chain remains unchanged to maintain competitive and predictable pricing to the restaurants and ultimately to our customers.
With our scale infrastructure and relationships we believe our supply chain continues to be a competitive advantage for the McDonald's system.
Balancing cost pressures with menu pricing and market share growth is not new to our system.
We have successfully managed this in the past and are confident we can do so again.
Considering the current inflationary environment along with the strength of our business we believe we have some pricing elasticity.
We plan to offset some but not necessarily all of the inflationary pressures with price increases opting to take smaller increases over the course of the year to balance the impact on the consumer and our traffic.
We look to keep increases below the "food away from home" growth rate while also being mindful of what's happening at the grocery stores.
Our demand-based pricing tool will guide the system in making the best pricing decisions for the business.
Growing guest count and market share has been key to our success these past few years.
Accordingly in the current environment we are willing to invest some margin in the short term to continue to grow our business for the long term.
Each area of the world has taken some price in 2011.
In the U.S.
we took a 1% price increase in early March and will likely take additional increases during the year.
Across Europe we have also increased prices by about 1% in the first quarter.
In addition when the VAT increased in certain markets additional increases were taken to cover the tax with no net benefit to sales.
Further price increases while likely will be balanced amidst the many cost pressures and austerity environment in this region.
With that as a backdrop let's discuss first quarter McOpCo margins.
Global company operating margin dollars increased 4% in constant currencies to $736 million.
Company-operated margin percent declined 50 basis points to 17.7% reflecting positive comparable sales that were more than offset by higher commodity labor and other costs.
In the U.S.
our basket of goods was up nearly 1% for the quarter.
This increase along with small increases in many other costs including labor contributed to a 90 basis point decline in company-operated margins to 19.5%.
Despite some of the near-term cost challenges all of which are manageable our U.S.
business remains strong and we continue to see market share growth.
Turning to Europe.
The company-operated margins decreased 10 basis points to 17.2% as strong comparable sales mostly offset increased commodities and labor including the increased social charges and Russia.
Europe's grocery bill was up 3.7% in the quarter.
In Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa company-operated margins decreased 50 basis points to 17.5% primarily due to inflationary pressures in labor and commodities partly offset by comparable sales growth.
In addition the acceleration of new restaurant openings in China is contributing to the lower margin percent as they initially experienced preopening and higher labor and training costs just like all other markets.
China's new restaurant sales and margins then grows significantly over time.
We continue to get leverage on G&amp;A spending which rose about 2% in constant currencies.
This increase was in line with our expectations and we are on track for our full year G&amp;A to decrease about 2% in constant currencies.
Similar to what we have experienced the last few quarters the earnings contribution from other operating income declined in the first quarter.
With fewer affiliated restaurants and the majority of re-franchising gains behind us we will not be recognizing the significant levels of income that we have in recent years.
As indicated in our February sales release the first quarter tax rate of 28.8% was lower than the full year guidance due to a non-recurring deferred tax benefit related to our foreign operations.
Our guidance for the year remains 30% to 32% implying the subsequent quarters' effective tax rates will be at the high end of our guidance.
We remain committed to building future returns and enhancing long-term shareholder value through growing our business by adding new units and driving same-store sales at existing restaurants.
We are on track to open 1 100 new restaurants this year with 156 opened in the first quarter including 40 in China.
Reimaging will be a key differentiator for our existing restaurants in the years to come.
We see tremendous opportunity to update our asset base as only 20% of our exteriors and 45% of our interiors currently reflect a modern contemporary look.
This year we plan to reimage another 7% of our restaurants or about 2 200 locations.
We made good progress in the first quarter toward that goal.
The U.S.
completed almost 90 reimages and has over 60 sites under construction.
We're on track to completing 600 this year and are expecting to do more in 2012.
Europe continues to lead our reimaging efforts particularly its major markets.
Over 70% of our interiors have been reimaged with the remainder to be reimaged by the end of 2012.
About 40% of exteriors have been reimaged so we'll take another few years to complete those.
We completed 100 reimages in Europe in the first quarter.
Lastly let me touch on foreign currency translation which positively impacted first quarter results by $0.03.
The U.S.
dollar has recently weakened against most currencies especially our four major currencies: the euro pound Australian and Canadian dollars.
As a result at current exchange rates we expect second quarter EPS to be positively impacted by $0.06 to $0.07 with a full year benefit of $0.15 to $0.17.
Please take this as directional only because I know rates will change as we move throughout 2011.
McDonald's first quarter results are a testament to our system's focus on the customer and execution against the Plan to Win despite a volatile and unpredictable global environment.
That focus and execution is yielding long-term value for our shareholders and our system.
Looking ahead our fundamentals are strong our strategies are sound and our system is aligned.
I'm confident our commitment to executing our plan will continue to deliver strong results.
Thank you.
Now I'll turn it over to Cathy to begin our Q&amp;A.
I'm going to open the call now for an a list and investor questions.
[Operator Instructions] So our first question is from David Palmer of UBS.
Thanks Cathy.
A quick question on the U.S.
business.
It feels like the cold beverage innovation has been a bigger driver of your sales than hot beverages at least over the last couple of years.
Even iced coffee I remember it was sneaky big as a driver.
And of course you've had some hits as recently as last summer.
It even looks like the seasonality of this beverage sort of lift has been a key reason for your gap to the industry numbers being wider in the summer than they are in the winter.
Do you see it this way? Is this something that you continue to believe will occur with summer beverages perhaps widening your gap again? David this is Jim.
Thanks for the question and we're very fortunate this morning.
We have the guy that initiated the combined beverage initiative in the United States in Don Thompson.
And Don's going to respond to your question.
Just a couple of things.
1 is I think as you look at cold and hot beverages our goal has always been actually to have enough in the pipeline that we were able to be able to kind of mitigate some of the seasonality impact you've talked about.
And we're still focused on the McCafé hot beverages.
We did hot Mocha last year.
I think the team's doing a solid job of advertising those.
On the cold side very astute in terms of the question but there's other weapons in the arsenal there.
So not only frappes and smoothies which were really really big hits to your point iced coffee but also don't forget the entire ice -- or the cold beverage movement in terms of dollar drinks which typically are across the summer months.
And so we've got quite a bit going on with those cold beverages.
The U.S.
also has quite an inventory in the pipeline relative to looking at things that are upcoming like strawberry lemonade.
We've got another smoothie flavor that's coming out this year.
So we've been able to be very successful and it has helped the business tremendously.
However we also want to make sure we continue to stay focused on the hot drinks.
Lastly on the hot drink side also we can't forget that the predominance of hot drinks is in drip coffee.
And so we have quite a lot of business clearly as we've gone from just -- if you look at overall beverages in terms of the McCafé 2% several years ago when we talk to over 6% today.
I think the other thing David to think about and this is we have invested a lot in this as you know and even changed the footprint of the store relative to the McCafé offerings.
And we have therefore provided the technology equipment and capability to prepare these drinks if you will in a rather seamless fashion.
And so -- and what I would say is that all of them are contributing at a level where we wouldn't think about changing the mix or taking anything off the menu.
Okay.
Our next question is from Joe Buckley from Bank of America Merrill Lynch Thank you.
I want to ask 2 questions.
First if you could share with us what the China same store sales number was for the quarter.
And then secondly Pete I want to go back to your comments to U.S.
I believe you said the food basket in the U.S.
in the first quarter was up only 1% yet you had about 90 basis points worth of margin pressure on a pretty good comp.
So I guess I'm wondering how that all gels together.
Sure Joe.
First of all we were talking before the call.
We knew you would ask about the China comp so we're prepared for that.
6.5% was the comp for the quarter compared to a 1.4% comp a year ago first quarter.
Regarding the U.S.
the commodities were still the biggest -- it's a couple of things.
1 as I mentioned we did a 1% price increase but that was not until early March.
And we hadn't done another price increase since late 2009.
So we had no benefit from pricing essentially in the quarter.
We did have the food cost pressure.
And compared to the first quarter last year we had let's say 150 basis points of benefit from lower food costs.
Here we had a 40-basis-point drag from the higher food costs.
And then every other line item it seemed was going just slightly negative.
So we had a 10-point hit from labor and a 10-basis-point hit from higher promotional costs which were some of the Oatmeal giveaways and discounting.
We had higher utilities a little higher depreciation a little higher snow plowing expense those first couple of months.
We saw most of these other expenses higher in those first 2 months of the quarter when the sales were a little bit softer and we didn't have a benefit from refranchising that we'd had the last several quarters.
So predominantly it was the change in food cost that was the biggest driver yet we had a lot of these other small items that accumulated to the impact.
Our next question is from Greg Badishkanian from Citi Great thanks.
Just kind of following up on the lineup for 2011 in the U.S.
I mean really solid -- you had a really solid lineup in 2010 and you talked about beverages.
Are there some other kind of factors that might be able to help continue that momentum in 2011? Greg this is Don.
Actually quite a few things that are in the pipeline and 1 of the points too -- we've got quite a few questions relative to menu pipeline.
Here's the thing that's really working well.
We really have a global menu pipeline and I'll talk about the U.S.
pipeline here too.
And as I talk about it I'll talk about a couple other products that the U.S.
is now looking at that are coming from overseas but also some of the products from the U.S.
that are being exported overseas because we've got a lot of traveling around.
Right now the U.S.
is focused -- and you guys will see in the next I'll say in a short time you'll see more innovation relative to the smoothie drinks.
I think you probably already know.
We probably talked about pineapple mango and there's a strawberry lemonade coming up on the Beverage side.
We've got additional nugget promotions.
We've got the revamping of the chicken lineup in terms of the sandwiches that are there.
The whole nugget piece has been phenomenal for us and I know the U.S.
is going to hit that again along with the ongoing support in the restaurants clearly of Angus and the return of the Asian salad.
So those are some the things that you're going to see in a relatively short period of time.
If you look a little longer out there's a few products actually quite a few products that the U.S.
has in test and we'll have to wait to see which of these make it to market.
But everything from spicy chicken sandwiches -- we have some of those across APMEA.
The U.S.
is looking at those quite intently.
There's a smaller product called McBites a snacking-type product that we're testing over in Australia.
Actually it's rolled out in the market in Australia now.
The U.S.
is looking at it.
Clearly they're looking at some of the sandwiches like Chicken Mythic Chicken Legend that we have from Europe just as Europe is looking at the fruit the  frappes and the smoothies.
So there's quite a few things that are in the pipeline now.
We had a discussion with U.S.
team last week relative to the pipeline and it looked solid.
All right.
Our next question is from Jason West from Deutsche Bank.
Yes thanks.
Just want to get a little more color on the margin outlook particularly in the U.S.
I know you guys don't give specific guidance.
But with the pressure this quarter within commodities picking up but then you've got some pricing coming in I mean would -- should we expect margins to get worse before they get better in the U.S.? Or do you think you have enough pricing and sort of maybe not some of these one-time or small items that added up in the first quarter for the rest of the year that maybe the margins won't get a lot worse from here? Jason it's Pete.
You hit on the 2 drivers right? The costs are going to get a little bit worse and we know we'll get the benefit of our March price increase along with additional price increases benefiting some of those what I'd call one-time things that were a nuisance in the first couple of months won't recur.
It will be challenging to grow margins in that environment.
There's no question about that.
I'm not going to attempt to predict if 90 basis points decline is going to be the benchmark for the year or not.
But you've hit on the things we're focused on which is what is going to be the price increase and how to best manage the costs.
But at the same time as I did mention in this environment the last few years we've been very successful at driving guest counts and we don't want to do anything on the pricing side that's going to dramatically change that yet recognize that food away from home is projected to be up 3% to 4% this year.
And so that's what gives us the opportunity to get some price.
So we're going to balance all that.
We don't just manage to the 1 margin number but I think you've hit on the things that we're focused on.
Jason just to remind us too we've had similar conversations in years past.
A couple of years ago I remember having similar conversations when we began to focus on guest counts.
And the reality is we have continued to outperform the market and we have outperformed all of our competitors in the space.
And the reason for that has been because of the guest count growth and then at the appropriate time being able to take price and leveraging the overall product mix.
And last year we were focused very heavily on menu and value.
This year the U.S.
is beginning to focus a little bit more on some of the higher-margin products.
So all of those things will go into the mix as we attempt to manage this even further throughout the year.
Our next question is from Rachael Rothman from Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> Yes.
This is Jake Bartlett in for Rachael.
I had a question just on your view of the U.S.
consumer.
I think in the past you've talked about maybe switching some promotional activity more towards the premium.
And I'm wondering whether that's changed at all in the last few months whether you think you're going to need to focus on value whether the industry itself is just going to remain fairly focused on value for the balance of 2011.
This is Jim.
We're not going to change our strategy around what we deliver to consumer on value.
That's #1.
Everyday affordability is a mainstay at McDonald's strategy regarding the menu and the combination of all of the things that I talked about this morning is how we deliver consumer relevance.
So whether it's the strategy around what we're marketing in that particular month or if the things that Don talked about menu coming up throughout the year some of those are standard process.
So if you take value drinks for example and the proliferation of some of the new drinks that's an annual thing and particularly in the United States.
And of course we view the opportunity to add relevance for our consumers around all of these things.
And so whether it's increasing the marketing around a particular premium item or everyday affordability and the balance around all of that I think it's business as usual as we go through 2011 because not much has changed regarding the consumer in 2011.
Consumer confidence took a dip in March where it had gone up in February and the unemployment's just under 9%.
And there's certain things going on in the marketplace that would lead you to believe that as Pete mentioned the consumer spending is expected to be up but not substantially different than how we've looked at the business over the last couple of years.
It's a mix and it's a balance and we're pretty good at it.
Okay.
Next question is from Sara Senatore from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Just actually a couple of question to follow up about -- 1 about the U.S.
and 1 about China.
The U.S.
I just want to touch on the announcement about the hiring that you've done and part of the rationale seemed to be about more 24/7 and maybe building up service.
Can you give any sense of whether this -- what kind of impact on comps or on margins we might expect to see from some of the initiatives that you seem to be hiring in support of? And then the other piece was on China.
I noticed your 6.5% comp which is obviously a very good comp but maybe a little bit softer than some of the other local competitors who were a little bit higher.
Were you promoting more? Was there something about price there that maybe you were -- had a little bit less on price than some of your competitors? Thanks.
Well Don just came back from that market and I'd also like to have him chat with you about the issue of -- what was...
National Hiring Day.
Oh National Hiring Day.
Sorry.
Yes.
Sara first off on National Hiring Day the intent really for us was to be able to -- in a solid voice be able to leverage the McDonald's strength to be able to put a call out in terms of employment.
We thought it would be good for us as McDonald's.
We do and have continued to hire through some of the economic downturns but we also thought it would be a more unified way to get the message out that McDonald's is hiring.
Our focus internally is on leveraging that labor to continue to help us grow the business.
We've grown guest counts tremendously.
And so we want to make share that we're able to provide the same level of operational excellence in the restaurants that we've been able to provide.
Now relative to specific focal points we are very focused on our peak hours and how we continue to build our business during the peak-hour guest count timeframe.
So we'll leverage primarily labor for that.
However we're also extending and expanding in terms of our extended hours.
So we're going to use the labor wherever we need it in the business.
So that's what's happening with the National Hiring Days.
Relative to China -- just came back from China.
And I tell you I was -- it's my third visit and I was extremely impressed with our development strategies and extremely impressed with the talent we've brought on some really outstanding new talent in the development arena.
The training that we have going on right now as we accelerate for the new openings and we accelerate openings has been phenomenal.
And these restaurants have opened up and I saw quite a few of them in my 3 days across China both in Shanghai Beijing and even Tianjin.
We are opening restaurants that look great and are operating at very high levels.
So to do that we've got to train our teams and we train them in existing restaurants.
And so we have an accelerated pace there which is really working out well.
In terms of things we do that others don't do I can't speak to all that others do.
I will say this: our 6.5% is based upon also a tremendous guest count growth not just taking price.
And having said that what that means is that we are building quite a bit of breakfast traffic.
We're building quite a bit of lunch traffic with our value strategies.
Back in November we went to off of that strategy for 1 month and saw a little business dip.
So we've gone right back to our value messaging around lunch and breakfast and it's paying great dividends.
And so will we take price in China? We will take price in China have taken some price but not at the scale possibly of some others.
And so we're going to continue to stay focused on guest count building.
Okay.
Next question is from Jeff Bernstein from Barclays Capital.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Pete just 1 clarification on your earlier comment and then a separate question.
Clarification relates to the discussion on margins and I think you said you got to make a conscious decision to invest some margin in the short term to grow the business in the long term.
And as it relates to the U.S.
it seems like you're running 1% of pricing now.
You mentioned being cognizant in the food away from home being at 3% to 4%.
So I'm just wondering as inflation gets higher what the detail is behind that kind of investing in the margin.
Would you be willing to go a whole lot closer to that 3% to 4%? Or would you be cautious of that? And then the extra question is just on the European market.
Entering 2011 it seemed like everyone's focus was on austerity measures and how that would negatively impact everyone there including yourselves.
Meanwhile you're now running a 5% plus comp.
So I'm just wondering is there anything you're seeing across the menu or across day parts.
Or have you changed your promotional campaign? It just seems like -- just any color in terms of how you've been able to put up those type numbers whether there's more and less resilient type markets.
Any kind of color would be great.
Thank you.
All right Jeff.
In the U.S.
the food away from home the trailing 12 months through February is up about 1.5%.
The 3% to 4% was the full year projection.
I think you knew that but just to clarify.
So historically what our lesson tells us is getting ahead of food away from home is bad for traffic but staying at or just below it is kind of the optimal place.
So we're going to continue to watch that as we move throughout the year.
It's 1 of the inputs to our pricing.
This is really more of an art than it is a science but it definitely is an input that we're going to keep an eye on as well as like I said what's happening at grocery stores and food at home and gas prices and some of those other things.
But it will be a guide for us as we move throughout the year.
Regarding Europe we have not seen any significant change in consumer behavior as a result of some of the austerity measures going on.
U.K.
for example they had the 2.5% VAT increase and some other austerity measures in the country.
They ran nearly a double-digit comp for the quarter very strong sales momentum and guest count growth.
And across Europe the strategies have been very similar in the first quarter to what we had in 2010 and prior: promotion of premium products rotating food events at the same time hitting everyday affordability with the equivalent of their Dollar Menus and their mid-tier menus the fourth tier.
It's been again a combination that has been relatively consistent this first quarter relative to 2010 and we're cautiously optimistic that that environment will continue for us.
Next question is from Mitch Speiser from Buckingham Research Inc.</strong> Thanks very much and my question is for Pete.
And I know no one has a crystal ball but 3 months ago your U.S.
food cost outlook was 2% to 2.5% and I think it sounded like you had pretty high confidence in that.
And then even 3 months before that you had high confidence in a 2% inflation forecast.
Now 3 months later that food inflation forecast has doubled.
And just wondering as you look back to the past 3 months what was missed in that forecast.
It seemed like a lot of folks on the sidelines were maybe ahead of that because we do want to have confidence in your food cost outlook going forward.
So maybe what was missed over the past 3 months? And how much confidence do you have in the U.S.
food cost basket outlook of 4% to 4.5%? Thanks.
Mitch it's nothing that was missed in the outlook in January.
It's actually the events that have happened since then that have dramatically moved all the markets from floods in Australia which were impacting the beef market; to the unrest in the Middle East which has driven oil to over $110 a barrel; to release of the grain stock inventories which are at all-time lows; to the weak U.S.
dollar which has driven beef exports up over 30%.
It's been all of these factors that have impacted to a significant degree in the course of just 3 months virtually every item in our basket.
So our supply chain had great visibility into matters at the time when they gave the forecast and several significant things have happened none to offset.
So everything going in the direction of higher costs and I would be surprised as you listen to other companies that they aren't also up there updating their guidance as I've already seen a few of them do.
Next question is from John Ivankoe from J.P.
Morgan Great.
Thank you.
Just a couple of follow ups if I may.
First is on the point-of-sale system.
I think you said 7 500 is in the U.S.
I wanted to get a sense how many company stores that's gone in and what the experience has been when that system is changed whether there's any integration cost short term and what the cost benefit is after that integration.
And then secondly Jim I think in your remarks you did say that you're going to keep value.
But I do wonder especially with some changes competitively whether you could perhaps change some tactics around value perhaps changing products or maybe even price points given the current commodity environment and what might be a slightly easing competitive environment and price in the U.S.
John thanks for the question.
I'll let Don talk about the POS system in a moment.
But relative to value we -- we're capable of changing our tactics around that and have over time.
You go back to the Double Cheeseburger and then to the McDouble and some of those other kind of things.
But on a wholesale basis relative to providing everyday affordability both in terms of the Dollar Menu now in the United States the Eurosaver in Europe and various markets and those other kinds of things the fundamental premise of that is not going to change.
And yes you've seen over the years that different menu items have moved on and off the Dollar Menu here in the United States.
But on an overall basis the expectation is that we will stay the course on the underlying everyday affordability without a whole lot of shifting in that regard.
And John as a perspective before Don talks about new POS.
Even with these cost increases that we're seeing this year -- that brings our commodity cost really just back to 2009 levels.
So the input cost for those items is very similar to what it was 2 years ago.
So although it's high this year relative to last year it's not at an unprecedented level.
And our franchisees who I talk to and stay in touch with on this obviously they're our  #1 constituents relative to the success of the brand and they lead the charge.
We're 80% franchised around the world 89% in the United States.
And they all are supportive relative to how we need to go after everyday affordability and stay the course regarding that at least in terms of my last few conversations that I've had with them.
And I don't think that will change because they are just as concerned about maintaining guest count growth that we've experienced over the -- and they know that's the driver of our success over the long term and their success.
John relative to the POS system it is in all of the company-operated restaurants now.
It allows us to do several different things some of which you've seen whether that be operational ease in the drive-thru; dual drive-thru lanes; hand-held order taking which we're beginning to implement more and more the restaurants which help with operational ease and speed of service.
And also I think John you may have been in 1 of the restaurants.
I can't remember but to see us actually -- or see a crew person actually go through the ordering process they have to use far less screens now as they're taking an order which means that the speed of service time is being decreased.
All of these things help us again at peak hours so we have a higher level of capacity to move more customers through.
And they're enabling us to be able to drive some of the guest count numbers that you guys have seen.
All right.
The next question is from Larry Miller from RBC.
LLC</strong> Yes thanks.
I just had a couple of clarifications and follow ups.
Pete when you were talking about challenging to grow margins I think you were referring to McOpCo is that correct? In theory as long as your potential sales are growing your franchise margin should continue to expand? Franchise margins as you know are insulated from the commodity costs.
So we get a lot of leverage from growing comps there yes.
Next question is from Andy Barish from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Question on -- just back on China.
I know it's not a huge part of the business but within the overall context of APMEA are the opening costs is that ongoing through the year with the acceleration? And then the VAT how does that jive with just inflation in wages and commodities over there? Is that going to -- is that big enough I guess to weight on the overall APMEA margins for the year? Andy this is Don.
We -- at this stage of the game there was a time when we were actually behind in terms of the wage rate game and we were trying to catch up.
As you know the Chinese government has determined that they want to double wages by the year 2015.
At this date we're above -- actually we're double digit above the actual wage rates now and the way that they're planning on increasing.
Part of the reason for that is to be able to: 1 get the kind of people that we want to have in the restaurants and the right talent.
And so as we move through the year we don't see this -- what's happening is as we accelerate the sites clearly we're training more people.
At some point we'll get to a steady state but right now we're accelerating our growth.
We have an inventory and a pipeline to build a lot more sites.
This year we're targeted as we've said to do between 175 to 200.
When I was there I had a chance to review many of those sites with them and look at the trading area surveys fantastic sites that we have.
The challenge in China -- and it's not as much a challenge as it is really a business planning piece.
And that is we go into many of these preplanned master plan communities about a year to 1.5 years ahead of time so that we can get a good stable footing.
So what we're seeing is -- so our first year sales are a little softer.
Second year sales we're seeing double-digit comps which is exactly what we've seen historically and those comps remain strong in the third year.
So the development strategy right now is how we can manage the margins relative to labor and we're in a really good position.
Some of the other folks in the marketplace are trying to catch up to the position we're at.
There will be another wage increase coming up soon in China.
It will not impact us as much as it's going to impact others.
All right.
Next question is Keith Siegner from Crédit Suisse.
Thanks.
Just a question for you on the franchisees.
And really what it relates to is over the last couple of years you've done a tremendous job of taking market share while at same time expanding margins.
So getting the franchisees your large part of the system to follow the lead of the company was really easy.
Well in the first quarter for the first time this program of like using a little margin to take some market share actually required to use a little margin to take some market share.
And now with some acceleration in the inflation outlook what I worry about here is this great opportunity to continue these market gains facing increasing inflation will the franchisees follow the lead? Do you feel confident that they will follow your lead and stay kind of below that "food away from home" pricing level? Or have they started to push for maybe more pricing or some change in strategy? What's their response to the actual use of margin for the first time? Keith this is Jim Skinner.
Thanks for the question.
First of all I think it's very important to understand how much we collaborate with the leadership of the franchisee community regarding our strategies from everything from how we execute at the front counter and drive-thru operationally customer satisfaction expectations and all the way through how we market to the business and how we communicate to the business and as well as what we decide to do around everyday affordability as I mentioned earlier.
And that collaboration has served us so well over the last number of years and they also understand 1 thing: we are in this business for the long haul.
So whether you're talking about China and some investment in the margin to grow the business over time it's a long-haul view.
It's not a quarterly view.
It's not a 12-month view.
Our franchisees are in the business for the long haul and they are onboard relative to our strategies around this and maintaining guest count growth.
Now that doesn't mean that you don't have people out there that are stressing and concerned just like we are in the company.
But for the most part they follow the company lead on the pricing and the expectation company lead meaning McOpCo.
It's not about -- we have skin in the game in this issue as well.
As we start thinking about taking margin most of the time that is in regard to how we price in McOpCo but the franchisees typically follow our lead regarding that.
And I see nothing out there relative to where we find ourselves in the business today which -- yes we've got some headwinds but just like in another 6 months we may have some tailwinds.
And our consistent approach relative to how we manage the business and collaborate with the franchisees over the long term is a great benefit to our growth as a business.
Keith this is Don.
And just a little texture to Jim's point and having lived through this from 2006 as the President of U.S.
just up until last year.
1 of the things to keep in mind and Jim has said this repeatedly but we really have a lot of ongoing collaboration with the franchisees.
There's a standing value team as a part of our op-net organization.
They continue to look at pricing on our value menus margin operating cash flow in the restaurants.
We also have a supply chain management collaboration with the franchisees.
So they're up to speed on this ramp-up in terms of commodities.
As it ramps up those teams will give feedback to the overall system and that's in conjunction with our own folks.
So these are not once-every-quarter meetings.
These folks are meeting on a routine and a frequent basis.
Also our cash flows have been strong.
This is not the first time we've been through this 2007 part of it 2008.
We've seen commodity stresses and pressures before.
Each time we have we've gotten together to focus on what are the most critical things to make sure we manage the business for the long term.
So these are some more commodity pressures but to Pete's point it was the same thing we saw -- we're at the same level that we were in 2009.
Next question is from John Glass for Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
First if I could get Pete just to clarify 1 thing and then I've got a question on the remodels.
As it relates to just your outstanding commodity guidance of the 4% to 4.5% in the U.S.
specifically what assumptions are you still making? In other words is it assuming a certain level of commodities flat or up from here? And what -- which ones are you assuming just so we know how to track that going forward? That's the clarification.
And then just thinking about how we can get out longer term sort of your pricing power mix shift in the remodels you've done in Australia and Europe have you seen favorable mix shifts in those versus the existing units? Have you tried to take more pricing in those units versus existing? Does it give you more pricing power? Or do you have actual data that suggests you have more when you remodel restaurants? Thanks.
Can I just...
Sure.
Let me talk about the pricing power relative to reimaged restaurants.
And I go back to many many years ago when we used to think that because we had a modernized restaurant that because we had ferns and grass that we could take an extra $0.05 in the big sandwiches or do whatever because our customers would understand because of that wonderful environment that they're in that they ought to pay more for the sandwich.
And that was a mistake and we don't do it that way.
The modernization of our restaurants really does not give us additional pricing power on the menu.
And we do it because our restaurants either need to be re-modernized or they're going to be built in a contemporary manner but it has little to do with overall pricing power.
And regarding the commodity outlook John we don't get into the individual line items with you and things like that.
I think it's fair to say now compared to where we were in January we have more secured positions.
So we have more hedges and things like that in the supply chain but look at -- follow the markets today.
I mean this is reflective of what's happened in the commodity markets over the last 3 months really on several small unhedged positions.
And so if the commodity markets move significantly from here and the main ones obviously looking at beef looking at corn wheat coffee et cetera our guidance reflects where the markets are today.
If they stay around these levels the 4% to 4.5% should be locked in.
If they move dramatically up or down then we'll have to reflect that as we move foreword.
Next question is from RJ Hottovy from Morningstar.
Great.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up question with regard to the pricing strategy and appreciate all the color you've given us on that particular topic.
Knowing that you're no stranger to a rising gas price environment I just wanted to get your thoughts about how you're think about that with respect to pricing in the back half of the year if it changes what particular area of the menu that you might be increasing prices on and just how that plays into the strategy.
First of all RG -- RJ sorry we always look at this and I've already said it.
You can't go far you can get to McDonald's.
We're convenient.
And we went through this 1 time before gas price was up over $4.
I forget what year.
It was just a couple of years ago.
And really it didn't have substantial impact on our overall business.
Some of the interstate sites and some of the road stops sites had some small impact but on an overall basis it wasn't a major impact.
And relative to how we look at pricing around that that specific item is just 1 of other -- 1 more nick relative to the spending that consumers have.
And so it's really molded in or melded in into our overall pricing philosophy.
Don do you want to say something else about that? I think Jim you said it.
The only other aspect of it is -- and that's the reason we have the Value Menus that we have so that if discretionary income begins to become impacted we have opportunities for customers to still be able to visit McDonald's.
Okay great.
We are just about out of time but we'll have a couple of last questions 1 from Steven (sic) [Steve] West from Stifel Nicolaus.
Yes Don can you talk about kind of the McCafé? You started to roll out kind of second generation products now.
1 as you test it -- you don't have to give us specific results on frozen lemonade but just what have you seen as far as cannibalization rates with the new products you've been testing? And 2 looking at McCafé in the future as you roll out new products how much capacity do you have to continue to put new products on that same system? And do you start pushing kind of the envelope there as far as your operations? Steve we actually built the -- I mean as you all know that the big part of McCafé was us to build out that sale in the restaurants so we have higher capacity.
And we also had a strategy at that time of moving from the coffee-based drinks to the blended ice drinks to proprietary blended drinks which is exactly where we are now.
We're looking at strawberry lemonade and others in terms of the pipeline.
And so capacity wise we're in really good shape.
It's the reason that we did the build-outs of the sales and also to help us in drive-thru speed.
And then pipeline wise we're going to continue to look at proprietary blended drinks and more of those continue to look at things that we can do.
We've got dairy in the restaurants.
We've got coffee in the restaurants.
We've got fruit in the restaurants fruit purees in the restaurants.
So we're going to continue to combine those and the chefs are working on other blended drinks there.
Lastly McCafé beverages -- the McCafé average check is higher than our other average checks in the restaurant.
And when you look at McCafé it's always a trade up when that drink is purchased.
So we feel real good about the ongoing progress that we have and opportunity in McCafé.
Okay.
And our last question is from David Tarantino from RW Baird Just another question on the pricing front.
I hate to beat this to death but I just want to understand are you concerned about your pricing power for the McDonald's brand in this environment? Or is this approach that you're using 1 more of trying to balance pricing with the opportunity to maybe take some share relative to competitors? No I don't think David that we're concerned about our pricing power.
And I want to just reflect on the question about when we reimage the restaurant whether we have more pricing power.
What we have is an opportunity to serve more customers because we increase the capacity typically whether it's the drive-thru or whether it's the service and the technology capabilities in the restaurant.
And so I didn't mean to say that we don't have opportunity to grow the business.
But it doesn't reflect directly on our ability to tell someone "Well look.
You're in a reimaged restaurant now so we get to price -- raise the prices." Our pricing elasticity in the brand moves up and down based on inflation consumer spending consumer confidence all of those things that we have talked about many times before and we're not worried.
We have the capability to take price over this next number of months in the U.S.
as Pete and Don have talked about.
It's just a matter of timing and when it makes the most sense for us always keeping an ever vigilant eye on everyday affordability which is the most important thing for our consumers.
I've said it many times before.
They get pinched everywhere.
They should not suffer the same fate at McDonald's.
So this look that we have at food away from home and even food at home and paying attention to that relative to the long-term credibility with our customers and pricing.
It's the most important thing that we do.
And so the answer is no we're not worried about that elasticity or that pricing power.
We're -- but we're -- what we pay very close attention to it in the overall mix of how we decide to price going forward.
And we never pass on directly all of our costs to the customers.
Great.
So thanks for all your questions.
I'm going to turn it over to Jim who has a few closing comments.
Thanks everybody for joining us this morning.
In closing I want to reemphasize the ongoing strength of our global business and our confidence in the continued success of our brand.
We're focused on smartly and strategically managing the market forces around us while relentlessly working to serve our customers better.
Our fundamentals and Plan to Win strategies are strong and I'm optimistic that we can continue to drive results in any environment moving forward.
Thanks and have a great day.
Hello and welcome to the McDonald's July 22 2011 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us everyone.
With me on the call today are Chief Operating Officer Don Thompson; and Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone that as always the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and the 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available at www.investor.mcdonalds.com as our reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Don.
Thanks Kathy and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to share our latest business results which continue to be strong.
For the second quarter global comparable sales were up 5.6%.
Operating income increased 11% in constant currencies and EPS reached $1.35 an 11% increase in constant currencies.
We also returned $1.4 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends during the quarter.
Our momentum continues with July global comparable sales expected to be about 4% to 5%.
Our performance is broad-based.
We continue to grow share in every area of the world despite an informal eating-out market that remains relatively flat overall.
Now I've had an opportunity to spend time in many of our major markets around the world over the past several months and I'm pleased to say that we're focused on taking our business to the next level.
The system is aligned around 3 global growth priorities that support our Plan to Win.
And we're confident that our emphasis on optimizing and evolving our menu modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our brand will continue to move our business forward.
Now when it comes to optimizing and evolving the menu we are leveraging our iconic products and billion-dollar brands we're innovating in key menu categories like beverages and chicken and we're elevating our food image around the world.
Our second priority which is modernizing the customer experience is really all about improving both how our restaurants look and feel and how they operate.
We keep looking for ways to create efficiencies and build capacity so that we can accommodate our continued guest count growth.
In addition to reimaging our restaurants we're leveraging technology to enhance the customer experience to make the jobs of our managers and crew easier.
For example innovations like our new point-of-sale system and self-order kiosks enable restaurant employees to focus on what matters most the customer experience and what we call the moment of truth.
Our third priority which is broadening accessibility to our brand is about driving growth through value and convenience.
You see to us value means a great customer experience delivered at a great price so that our customers get the biggest bang for their buck their yen euro or pound.
The second component of accessibility which is convenience is about daypart expansion and continuing to open new restaurants when and where appropriate.
Ensuring our plan's focus on these 3 global priorities enables our teams to be more effective in terms of integrating and aligning their initiatives under the Plan to Win.
This is particularly important as we execute against our biggest opportunities by leveraging one of our core competencies operations excellence.
Now I'd like to share a few highlights from each of the areas of the world.
Let's begin with the U.S.
where comparable sales for the quarter increased 4.5% and operating income grew 6%.
We continue to take share in the IEO marketplace even as the overall industry traffic has been relatively flat.
These are strong results especially in today's environment where unemployment levels are still high and consumer confidence continues to waver.
Our performance has been driven by a combination of everyday value the introduction of compelling new menu items a sustained focus on core favorites and an ongoing emphasis on improving restaurant operations.
We continue to capture an even greater share of the beverage market with the introduction of Frozen Strawberry Lemonade to our McCafé line up.
To keep the news coming we added another great tasting smoothie flavor Mango Pineapple at the end of June.
Total McCafé beverage sales rose 29% over second quarter 2010 on top of the gains realized last year.
And we're still featuring dollar soft drinks and sweet tea in a majority of our restaurants.
The U.S.
has also been promoting its flagship products that offer great taste and value.
Advertising the Big Mac and Quarter Pounder drove unit sales up double digits.
And the promotion of shareable 20 piece McNuggets and a new lineup of dipping sauces also delivered positive results.
Now at the same time customers appreciate the choices we provide during the early morning hours with signature breakfast products like the Egg McMuffin the Dollar Menu and our Fruit &amp; Maple Oatmeal breakfast continues to contribute to results.
Our oatmeal is just one example of how we keep evolving the nutritionals of our menu.
Another great example is the premium chicken sandwiches that have been reinvented with a new marinade and are now served on a roll with 8 grams of whole grain.
We're committed to continuing our focus on this important area and evolving as appropriate.
Now we also continue to make progress with our modernization efforts on multiple fronts from reimaging and rebuilding restaurants to exploring new ways to expand capacity.
We just begun to tap capacity opportunities with the addition of side-by-side drive-thrus.
We now have about 2 200 in the U.S.
in addition to a growing number of hand-held order takers that are also helping increase throughput in our drive-thrus.
The U.S.
also continues to rollout a new point-of-sale system that simplifies the order taking process.
It improves accuracy and it enables our crew to better provide customer service.
Today it's in more than 10 000 restaurants in the U.S.
The plan is to have it in virtually all of our restaurants in the U.S.
by the end of the year.
So let's switch over to Europe.
Comparable sales for the quarter increased 5.9% and operating income grew 10% in constant currencies.
While the overall IEO market was flat we continue to increase our market share around Europe.
The big 4 markets in Europe France the U.K.
Russia and Germany continue contributing to results.
Now while austerity measures are pressuring consumers purchasing power these markets and many across Europe have continued to grow sales guest counts and operating income.
Results for the segment were driven by a compelling menu of signature offerings new products across price tiers a growing breakfast daypart and a continued emphasis on modernizing the restaurant experience.
Our strong guest count numbers in the region have reaffirmed the fact that we're pulling the right levers to remain a compelling destination.
For example premium products like McWrap a new line of large chicken and beef wraps are now in 17 countries in Europe.
11 markets are featuring the 1955 which is a burger topped with grilled onions bacon and smoky barbecue sauce and served on a gourmet roll.
This nostalgic taste has become Germany's best-performing premium sandwich.
Mid-tier offerings like the Little Tasters in the U.K.
and Snack Deluxe in Germany continue to elevate our position as the leader in great taste at mid-tier prices.
Europe also continues to elevate our food image as we increase our emphasis on telling our story.
A great example of this is the UK's new A-Z quality campaign.
Now this campaign celebrates the sheer quantity of great stories that we have to tell on topics including our farm fresh produce local sourcing and the nutritional profile of our menu items.
It's also a fun way for us to talk about the many other great things that we do as a company.
And when it comes to restaurant modernization Europe has led the system in evolving the look of our restaurants.
And this effort has clearly benefited our results in Europe and globally.
Our reimaging work is complemented by a concerted effort to simplify the customer experience.
One example of this is the contactless payment technology that is rolled out in the U.K.
and Switzerland and is currently being deployed in Italy and Poland.
I'd now like to shift over to Asia Pacific Middle East &amp; Africa or APMEA which delivered another strong quarter.
Comparable sales for the quarter grew 5.2% and operating income increased 19% in constant currencies.
The region's growth has been balanced with convenience value and menu initiatives leading the way.
A sustained focus on the drive-thru and delivery service strategies is paying dividends as the top sales driver among convenience tactics in markets including Japan Taiwan Hong Kong and Korea.
Another convenience is the nearly 1 700 dessert kiosks many of which are in China where disposable income becoming more widely spread these days our kiosks provide a quick convenient treat for loyal customers while also serving as a great way to introduce new customers to our brand.
And on the topic of menu breakfast continues to deliver results.
In China the launch of a 2-item meal combo featuring the new big crispy chicken muffin and coffee has driven early morning performance and contributed to more than half of China's total comp guest count growth.
This daypart is approaching 8% of sales in China.
And in Australia a new breakfast menu that includes items like bagels has made it the region's strongest growing daypart.
Now as all of you know Australia has begun to feel some of the economic pressures that have been weighing in on much of the world these last few years.
GDP contracted 1.2% in the first quarter its biggest fall in 20 years.
The cost of living and the level of savings are both high and also contributing to concerns is the high Australian dollar.
Recognizing the need to turn up our attention to entry-level value our Australian team has launched the Value Lunch initiative.
And it's similar to the one that we launched in China.
Early results are promising.
On the topic of value I'm pleased to report China's Value Lunch sales which offer an Extra Value Meal at a discounted price for a set period of time during lunch have grown by 20% versus the same period last year.
Now on to Japan.
A branded affordability platform in Japan at breakfast and a new Value Lunch initiative are driving sales and guest counts and growing our market share.
I'd also like to provide a brief update on our operations in Japan.
Our business there is holding steady.
And today all but 17 out of 3 300 restaurants are open.
Our team is doing an outstanding job managing through a very devastating situation.
Although Japan is starting its recovery the road is still unclear as the country begins efforts to address summer energy consumption levels measures like the rolling closures of manufacturing facilities and work week changes may impact consumer behaviors.
As we move past the midyear point we remain very confident in our strategies as we continue to work towards becoming our customers' favorite place and way to eat and drink.
At McDonald's we deliver a great experience to our customers.
We deliver high-quality food at a great value and an increasingly modern atmosphere.
This continues to resonate with our consumers and that's why McDonald's is a destination for more than 64 million customers each and every day.
I'm confident that we will continue to grow our market share while generating sustained profitable growth for our system and our shareholders.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
Through the first 6 months of 2011 the McDonald's system has remained focused on executing the Plan to Win strategy and it's continuing to produce positive results.
We are building sales guest counts and market share in every area of the world despite a global economy facing rising costs and volatile consumer sentiment.
Despite this environment system wide sales increased 6% in constant currencies for the 6 months ended June 30 and we continue to strengthen our profitability with year-to-date combined operating margin up 30 basis points to 30.8%.
Our franchise business model relies on the entrepreneurial spirit of the local businessmen and women who operate 80% of our restaurants around the world.
For the quarter franchise margins totaled $1.8 billion an increase of $130 million in constant currencies with every area of the world contributing.
The margin percentage was up 40 basis points to 83.1% driven by positive comparable sales.
Franchise margins drive approximately 2/3 of our restaurant profits.
Global company operating margin dollars grew $27 million in constant currencies to $891 million for the quarter while the percent declined 90 basis points to 19%.
Rising commodity labor and other costs more than offset strong comparable sales.
We are satisfied with these margins in this environment.
For a perspective at 19% the 2011 second quarter margin is the second-highest of the past 10 years.
In the U.S.
company operating margins declined 150 basis points to 20.7% for the second quarter due primarily to 6% higher commodity costs and to a lesser extent higher labor and other costs.
The full year outlook for the increase in our U.S.
grocery basket remains at 4% to 4.5%.
The cost increases were partly offset by strong guest count growth and a 1% price increase in March and a 1.4% increase at the end of May.
As we move through the year we will continue to consider future price increases balancing our desire to maintain growth in guest count and market share amidst rising input costs.
We remain mindful of food at home inflation while striving to remain below from the food away from home index to maintain our strong value proposition.
Food at home inflation is rising faster than food away from home providing us some room to take more pricing in the current environment.
In Europe second quarter company operated margins decreased 70 basis points to 19.6% primarily impacted by 5% higher commodity costs and to a lesser extent higher labor and other costs.
Europe's projected full year commodity cost increase also remains at 4% to 4.5%.
Europe is a collection of 39 different markets so our price increases vary by market with Russia at the high end due to its significant inflation and all other markets averaging about 2% year-over-year.
As we move to 2011 we will continue to evaluate pricing being sensitive to austerity measures and shrinking disposable income.
In Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa company operated margins for the quarter decreased 10 basis points to 17% also reflecting inflationary pressures in commodity labor and occupancy costs offset by comparable sales increases.
Similar to last quarter the acceleration of new restaurant openings in China negatively impacted the segment's margin percent.
In terms of pricing APMEA is averaging about 3% year-over-year.
Similar to the U.S.
and Europe we will continue to assess our pricing in an effort to alleviate some of the inflationary pressures while maintaining our guest count momentum.
Looking forward given our commodity pressures we expect third quarter consolidated margin comparisons to remain challenging with comparisons easing into the fourth quarter.
G&amp;A control remains a part of how we operate.
Compared to second quarter 2010 which included our biannual worldwide convention G&amp;A spending declined $5 million or 1% in constant currencies.
We remain on track for full year G&amp;A to decrease about 2% in constant currencies.
On the other operating income line the current quarter benefited from gains on partnership dissolutions in the U.S.
as well as comparisons to charges related to voluntary glassware recall last year.
With half the year behind us we have tightened our full year effective tax rate guidance to 31% to 32%.
Through June the effective tax rate was approximately 30% implying that both third and fourth quarter rates will likely be above the annual guidance range.
Our strong operating results continue to generate significant amount of cash.
Our first priority for this cash remains reinvestment in our business to drive future growth and returns.
About half our CapEx is allocated to existing restaurants with the other half to open new units.
As Don mentioned modernizing the customer experience is one of the pillars of our growth strategy and reimaging plays essential role refreshing our interiors and exteriors so customers easily notice the contemporary look and feel of our restaurants.
Equally important we are taking advantage of the opportunity to enhance operational efficiencies such as adding dual lane drive-thrus optimizing the spacing between the payment and present windows in the drive-thru or expanding the kitchen to increase capacity to name a few.
Through the first 6 months we have completed 200 reimages in the U.S.
and are confident that we will meet our target of 600 by year end.
Our owner/operators are enthusiastic about this initiative and view it as a way to capture a sustainable long-term competitive advantage.
The other half of our capital expenditures is allocated toward opening new restaurants.
Over half of the projected 1 100 openings or about 650 will be in APMEA a key growth region for us.
China has opened 66 restaurants through the first half of the year and we'll finish the year opening between 175 and 200.
Broadening our accessibility remains a key strategy for us in this region and we see significant opportunity for new units for many years to come.
Lastly let me discuss foreign currency translation which positively impacted second quarter results by $0.10.
At current exchange rates we expect third quarter EPS to benefit $0.07 to $0.09 with a full year benefit of $0.23 to $0.25.
But as usual take this guidance as directional only because rates will continue to change as we progress through the second half of the year.
McDonald's results for the second quarter underscore the strong foundation from which we are operating: a resilient strategy that operates effectively in any economic climate; a powerful alignment of our system around the key priorities that widen our gap versus the competition; and an paralleled focus on execution that delivers a uniquely McDonald's experience to the 64 million customers served at our restaurants each day.
We remain confident that this formula will continue to deliver strong results over the long term.
Thank you.
Now I'll turn it over to Kathy to begin our Q&amp;A.
Thanks Pete.
I'll now open the call for analyst and investor questions.
[Operator Instructions] So let's start with David Palmer from UBS.
I have a question about your efforts to improve throughput and the effective capacity of your assets particularly in the U.S.
I think it was last year you said that the lunch hour same-store sales have been flat for 5 years and correct me if I'm wrong on that.
I know you made peak lunch hour staffing a priority at your conventions again about a year or so ago.
And earlier in this call you reminded us of new point-of-sale systems and I hear your reimaging has a sneaky positive benefit to throughput.
So could you perhaps let us know have you been able to restart same-store sales growth at the peak hours and perhaps give us a sense of how this might play out in the coming years? We definitely have had a big focus on peak hour both from what we call peak hour capacity so that gets into -- as you put it some of the staffing efforts our staffing levels are up.
As you all know National Hiring Day in the U.S.
we targeted hiring 50 000 people.
Actual results are coming in at 93 000 people that were hired.
And that's increasing our staffing opportunities also for of course dayparts but also for the peak hours.
So we staffed up better.
The new POS system which is in 10 000 plus restaurants in the U.S.
is also helping us from an ease of ordering perspective.
And so we have been growing across all dayparts but we definitely are growing at the lunch daypart as well.
Okay our next question is Jeff Omohundro from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Just was wondering if you could further address the sales and inflation trends in China really in the context of the broader consumer environment as well as how you are managing your daypart efforts on the value side.
Jeff we had a good quarter in China.
Second quarter comps were up 14.4% almost all of that driven by guest counts.
That was on top of a mid-single digit comp last year in the quarter.
So traffic and guest count movement obviously is very strong there.
And key to that in the environment you mentioned the high inflationary environment is our everyday value.
So our focus as Don mentioned I think it was late 2009 we introduced the Value Lunch in China.
And now a renewed focus on value at breakfast with a RMB 6 muffin and coffee offering and recently introducing a snacking value menu around RMB 7 and up from there.
So all efforts to drive traffic yet that the same time realizing that with input costs rising we do have to do something to maintain our profitability there.
So we did in July look at adjusting prices.
And when you take some of the products that move to the value menu which effectively were price reductions with some of the other actions it did net out into a net price increase.
But early days we're seeing no negative impact from that.
Next question is Matt DiFrisco from Lazard.
[Technical Difficulty] And what you have still sort of in the barn to come out as far as in the global markets specifically some of those things that are working in the U.S.
so well the timing of that being rolled out on the international stage and some of your future things in the pipeline? Matt we missed the first part of your question.
It was cut off.
Okay I was asking about the beverages.
And I was curious if you could talk a little bit looking back how much it helped the comp but also what -- as far as products that are working so well in the U.S.
What are still to come in the international markets if you can give us a little bit of an insight into drivers without obviously tipping the hand of the competitors.
The beverage strategy clearly has been working very well.
Now the coffee side of that is being implemented in many areas around the world.
And frankly the coffee part of that started in New Zealand and Australia.
We are very strong in Germany with a number of McCafés we have there.
The U.S.
they move forth with the overall beverage strategy which is inclusive of espresso-based drinks.
The frappes the smoothies pineapple mango strawberry wild berry those are all products that are being looked at in other parts of the world.
Many of the areas are looking forward to an implementation of those products.
We do have to be cognizant of our supply chain and be able to make sure that we have ample fruit supply before we move into those and our supply chain team is doing a great job of readying us for that.
So we're looking at the smoothies and some of the other products for their applicability.
But at the same token some of the premium sandwiches that we've seen in other areas of the world.
The U.S.
team is looking at some of those whether they be sandwiches like the McWraps or 1955 to basically augment the existing menu pipeline that's in the U.S.
right now.
So we've got a lot of great -- both from a beverage perspective and a sandwich perspective snacking Pete mentioned that some of the desserts are really traveling around the world at a much quicker pace.
Okay our next question is Joe Buckley Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Could you talk about the month of June? It was extraordinarily good seemingly everywhere around the world.
Were there specific initiatives in place in the U.S.
or in Europe or APMEA that drove that very strong performance? In the U.S.
yes U.S.
focused on nuggets chicken nuggets with the new sauces.
Also we did have the benefit of the Pineapple Mango smoothie Strawberry Lemonade.
And those things really still comping on top of what we had last year which was the introduction of smoothies.
And so the U.S.
did very well there.
We also had the benefit of the price increase and actually the 2 price increases that have been taken and Pete talked briefly about those earlier.
So we've had those benefits on the U.S.
side.
The continued focus on building capacity that was mentioned earlier relative to the peak really supported the business.
In Europe what we saw was a combination of the initiatives that they've had in place combined with us continuing to monitor some of the commodity-based pressures taking appropriate price increases.
But we've had great sandwiches like -- I've mentioned the McWrap I mentioned 1955 before we mentioned some of our value executions with Little Tasters and P’tits Plaisirs the whole SAS value campaign that we have in Germany.
So we've got quite a few things that are taking place that really supported us.
The other benefit that we had was there was a holiday shift in Germany particularly it was across Europe but in Germany particularly where in the month of May we saw some negative impact from some of the shifts of holidays.
We picked that up in a benefit in the month of June.
So very very solid performance very very solid guest count growth.
As I mentioned earlier continued momentum and we're looking at July comps in range of 4 to 5 percentile.
Okay our next question is Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
You had a nice acceleration in your China same-store sales.
Your other big QSR competitor saw a nice acceleration.
How much do you think was due to the industry and why do you think it accelerated so much? I think Greg I think China clearly has -- we're seeing some growing disposable income there.
We know that the Chinese government has really put in play their perspective of continuing to ensure that minimum wage growth at a rapid pace.
And so we're managing that from a labor perspective but at the same time we see the benefit of that increased disposable income in terms of consumer purchasing power.
And therefore our appeal as a brand across the lunch program the breakfast daypart the initiatives that we've launched our service initiatives more drive-thrus in the marketplace more restaurants in the marketplace a stronger marketing voice we made investments there.
All of these things are coming to bear I believe in China.
And we're seeing some really good momentum there and our team is very strong.
I was over earlier this year very very pleased with the development plan and the process there.
Very pleased with our operational execution.
We're learning better and better how to start up new restaurants and do it at the rate and pace where we've got going now.
So the Chinese team is hitting on all cylinders now.
And our next question is from Jason West of Deutsche Bank.
Just on the U.S.
a little bit and sort of back half outlook.
You guys had a lot of innovation on beverages a little bit of breakfast this year.
But can you talk about sort of the innovation pipeline for the rest of the year in the U.S.? Are we going to see some new food items in the somewhat near future? Jason relative to the U.S.
you'll definitely see some ongoing some new things.
What the U.S.
has done extremely well though and I'd have to say this is the beverage implementation has been great.
Strength at breakfast and the addition of oatmeal along with advertising core favorites in breakfast has worked well.
They are looking at some other products that they could implement.
Clearly the Angus burger has continued to perform for us.
But we've got some different products at are in different part -- different test around the U.S.
Some burger test a couple of burger tests that I think you guys -- we'll be able to tell you about it at some point in the future if the test prove out I'm sure they will.
I talked about garden wraps and McWraps from Europe.
The U.S.
is looking at those clearly.
We've got a couple of other things in the dessert pipeline in the U.S.
we'll be able to talk about and ongoing innovation from a beverage perspective.
We really lean on the U.S.
for some of the beverage focus and innovation and we look to Europe and have for some of that burger innovation and we're seeing some really great innovation out of Asia in terms of chicken-based products and snacking.
So all of those things combined together really are part of if you would our global menu pipeline.
And you'll see some of those come through from a U.S.
perspective.
Okay our next question is from Steve West from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Hey Don real quick.
Can you maybe give us an update on McCafé? I think when you guys first started advertising this I guess about 4 years ago you're talking about 125 000 per store.
I think last year you said it exceeded your wildest expectations internally.
Can you maybe talk about where you are now and where you think you can be either in absolute terms or on a percent of sales mix? Is there any reason to think McCafé can't be 10% 15% 20% of sales as consumers continue to learn about the McCafé initiatives and continue to use you as a drink destination? Well it's a great question.
I think that the team has done a really solid job of executing McCafé.
Well let's keep in mind as well a big part of the McCafé chain was really the improvement in our drive-thru layout and our drive-thru capacity.
But now that we have and we have an appropriate layout we mentioned before that it would not only be espresso-based coffees but we're moving to frozen blended drinks.
And then we said proprietary-based drinks.
All of those things have played well.
Iced coffee’s still in the lineup.
We have the products in the restaurant now to be able to do combinations of things.
And I know that the chefs are looking at that and looking at more new products.
We've seen some of those products in the potential pipeline here.
And so I think it can continue to grow.
From a percentile perspective how high can it go we still view ourselves as an underdog in the beverage category when it comes to frozen blended beverages.
And so for us being an underdog is a great thing because we have an opportunity to take even more business in this regard.
And we can do it at the speed of McDonald's.
So the whole combination of drive-thru capacity is a big part of what we're able to deliver in this regard.
Okay our next question is from Michael Kelter Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to ask you you had talked about one of the benefits of the comps in the United States for the price increases you put through which if they flow through kind of implies very little elasticity.
And I was curious if that is the right takeaway that there's very little elasticity you're seeing right now to the price increases you're taking both in the U.S.
and abroad? And whether you are seeing otherwise any pockets of different consumer behavior as prices go up? Michael you know what actually we're seeing a pretty good reaction to the price increases so far.
So the one that we took in the U.S.
in March I would say the flow through from that was probably above average of what we typically get on a price increase.
Part of that I think is because we hadn't taken one in so long.
And it's still early to read on the May increase but based on our June results we think that is also being accepted.
And generally that's been the case around the world.
So we've been very cautious.
We've used our tools we've looked at all of the other indicators that guide us whether it be grocery store inflation or food away from home and what's going on with competitors and unemployment rates et cetera.
So we've been judicious and I think as a result of that we're getting good reaction and good flow through on those price increases.
And in terms of is that changing consumer behavior per se I would say no because we aren't seeing any dramatic spike in the usage of our dollar menus.
That would be one indicator.
If we raised prices and then suddenly saw a big shift down to Dollar Menu items we're just not seeing that.
So we're pretty comfortable with how we've gone.
We'll continue to be judicious as we move forward to balance that guest count growth with those rising input costs.
Our next question is John Glass from Morgan Stanley.
So the APMEA profits accelerated nicely this quarter I think versus prior quarters.
My question is simply what is the contribution now of China to that business? Maybe you can talk about the total either dollar contribution or the percentage contribution of China.
And also can you compare their McOpCo margins to the McOpCo margin you reported at 17% for the quarter? You mentioned there was some pressure in the margin from development maybe just talk about how much that pressure is? Yes John.
China still remains about 3% of our global operating income.
So it's -- well obviously its operating income was up for the quarter.
It continues to stay in that 3% range on a global basis.
The margins for China are a little bit below the average that we report for APMEA but they were up for the quarter.
But there's no chance -- we've accelerated new unit openings.
The new stores -- and this is not unique to China but a new store tends to open at a lower margin than the market average.
And then over a couple of years as the comps build then it gets to the market average.
And that's what we're seeing in China.
So we are actually this quarter the new store mix was less of a drag on the margin than it was in the first quarter.
So it's a combination.
We're starting to comp up again having fewer non-comp stores in the mix as well as the performance of those stores improving.
All right next question is from David Tarantino R.W.
Baird.
Just a question about the overall environment in Europe.
Looking at your comps they were very strong.
And I think Don you mentioned that even the informal eating-out market there was flat which is maybe better than you would expect given all the austerity measures that are going on.
So perhaps could you comment on what you're eating in the consumer environment? And is it trending better than you would have suspected at this stage? And sort of what are the puts and takes as you look at the back half of this year and into next year in that segment? Europe is still fragile and I think we all know that.
Unemployment U.K.
is at about 7.8% Germany about 7.3% France is about 9.7%.
So we're still seeing some fairly high unemployment rates across Europe.
And from an IEO perspective it is interesting.
If you look at some markets you'll see IEO from a growth rate perspective has diminished.
Other areas it's very very lackluster.
Every now and then you get a bright spot.
You see that Russia is growing but still not at some of the historic rates and that's due to austerity measures.
So what you see -- what we see across Europe -- and it's also a mix in consumer confidence.
So you look in the U.K.
consumer confidence is eroding a bit Germany is going up a little bit France is fairly flat.
So it's an interesting set of markets relative to all the economic indicators.
For our business as we move forward we just continue to focus on being able to have first of all value at each tier bring forward some new innovative news in terms of our menu at the same time make sure that from a convenience factor we're there and from a base value factor we're right there for the consumers across Europe.
And so right now still a mixed bag second half of the year.
It depends upon to what happens with some of the additional austerity measures.
Some of the markets like Portugal are looking at increased VAT.
So it's -- we do have to continue to watch what takes place with some of the austerity measures and make sure we're prepared from a value perspective and from an operating perspective.
All right our next question is from Jeff Bernstein Barclays.
Just a follow-up on the pricing and commodity front.
It seems like you're now running in the U.S.
roughly 2.4% price.
In Europe you said ex-Russia running up 2%.
Just wondering whether you could talk about -- I think you said food away from home still above food at home.
I think that's in both regions.
Is the 3% to 4% range that you guys talked about last call is that still realistic or necessary in terms of pricing as we look to the back half of the year? And perhaps could you actually see margin growth with that level of pricing with COGS where they are? Which kind of feeds into the COGS where I guess the food basket you're saying is still unchanged which we're happy to see at 4% to 4.5% inflation.
I'm just wondering whether you think things are topping out there.
And while you haven't locked in 2012 presumably whether you think the 2012 basket in U.S.
and Europe would be above below or in-line with that 4.5 -- 4% to 4.5% range? That's a lot of them Jeff.
So our best estimate right now and I think the folks that focus on this are suggesting that food away from home will still grow in that 3% to 4% range for the year.
So we'll keep an eye on that.
Our goal would be to kind of be in that range I think.
But again as I mentioned earlier we're going to be judicious about this and continue to read not only what's happened with the price increases we have taken but what is the sentiment and expectation going forward.
But it does feed into your second question.
So we think for the year our cost of goods our basket is going to top out here in the third quarter and that we see relief in the fourth quarter.
The 2012 it's still too early for me to give you a number but directionally my guess is we would see the basket up again in 2012.
I think the anomaly of having a large decrease in our basket that we saw in 2010 I'm afraid those days are behind us for a while.
And so as we think about price increases for the rest of this year and we also have to think about what is coming in commodity cost in 2012 and beyond our suppliers are as they always do looking at the markets and putting on positions where it makes appropriate to help lock-in and secure some of that predictability to our pricing in 2012.
But at this point it'd be premature for me to put a number on that.
All right our next question is from Mitch Speiser from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Can you comment on emerging markets? Let's exclude China for a moment.
Do you have a general emerging markets strategy or is it just by region? And I guess my direct question is can you give us a sense of what your unit growth is for your emerging markets ex-China? And is there an increased focus on stepping that up? I think your global unit growth is about 1.5%.
So I'm just primarily asking about the emerging markets piece ex-China.
Mitch in terms of our opening plan for 2011 of the 1 100 restaurants roughly 150 of those are going to be in the U.S.
Another 225 of those are going to be in Europe.
90 plus are going to be in Latin America.
So regarding emerging markets we're going to get nice growth in Latin America.
And if you recall that's a developmental licensee so no capital from us for that.
And then 650 in APMEA so ex-China let's say that's 450.
Japan is going to give 100; South Korea 30.
There's a lot of the markets that are 20 plus whether it be in the Philippines or Turkey or Malaysia or Indonesia.
So there are a lot of openings and growth going on in these markets that you'd referred to as emerging.
So while it's not a strategy per se our strategy is we're looking around the world for the opportunities to grow restaurants where we have good demand and we can get good returns.
And so we're going to continue to do that.
Next question is from Nicole Miller of Piper Jaffray.
In regards to beverage sales I think I heard being up 29% could you help us understand which dayparts benefit most? So assuming not every daypart was up 29% but where did you see most of the increases? Nicole it varies based upon the product.
And so we see a great regular menu regular daypart if you would afternoon later evening movement with products like the smoothies and the frappes.
However interestingly enough we do sell frappes at breakfast in the breakfast daypart and the smoothies [indiscernible] I mean in the smoothies.
But interestingly -- and our smoothies are skewed more towards the rest of the day like frappes are.
Counter to that is the espresso-based coffees and our drip coffee in general.
That's cued toward the morning daypart.
Strawberry Lemonades we continue to look at those products to see whether or not the buying habits change.
But snack daypart mid-daypart for those.
Also add-ons in the early day.
Our dinner daypart typically the more indulgent based products sell at the dinner daypart.
So we get a mix across the dayparts which is very very good because it smooths the capacity impact in our ability -- helps our ability to deliver at the speed of McDonald's.
All right our next question is from Sara Senatore from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just actually 2 on the U.S.
I wanted to drill down.
One was labor cost.
I was interested that you mentioned I think pretty much across the board you did see some pressure on the labor line.
Just trying to understand that obviously here in the U.S.
the labor markets are still really flat.
So I was hoping you could talk a little bit about what you're seeing there? And then the second follow-up question was clearly in the U.S.
you're taking care from somebody.
Informally do you think it's coming from other fast food restaurants? Is it coming from full-service? If you could just give us a sense of where -- from whom you think some of your growth or on whose -- at whose expense maybe some of your growth is coming? Sara it's Pete I'll start with the labor question.
The average rate in the U.S.
was up just about 1%.
So not a huge increase but certainly enough to have an impact on the margin a little bit.
And really as you noticed and mentioned the unemployment rate obviously continues to remain high.
But one of the factors -- the positive factor for us is that turnover is at record lows.
So that's great for customer service that's great for staff continuity.
That does put upward pressure on the wages though.
The longer the folks are there the wages creep up a little bit.
So it's that dynamic really that part has the biggest impact on the wage in the U.S.
And I'll let Don talk about where we're taking all the share from.
Sara I think if you look at some of the product introductions you'll get a feel really -- and that's the best way for us to really approach it.
Beverages we're gaining share clearly based upon the McCafé beverages.
They've been growing at a really good pace.
Also though we're growing beverages on the value platform.
So when you look at Dollar Drinks and dollar sweet tea those areas we're growing our business there.
Breakfast wise clearly we're growing business at the breakfast daypart.
Oatmeal has been a large incremental for us at breakfast.
So we're getting the incrementality of an oatmeal.
So where exactly those dollars are coming from we haven't dissected that or really pinpointed from other competitors we just know they're coming from the broader marketplace.
And clearly in the area of chicken with the success of nuggets we grew our chicken business quite a bit.
The other thing we're doing in the U.S.
though is extending and expanding hours.
And so we've gone from about 36% up to about 40% in terms of our 24 and extended hour operations.
And so when you look at that we're becoming more accessible.
We are definitely getting in some of the product categories and we're improving our peak-hour service and our ability to satisfy customers during the peak periods where we have a higher flow through of customers.
And so all of those things are areas where we're seeing some business gains.
All right next question is from John Ivankoe of JP Morgan.
The question was on the self-order kiosks that you have and I've actually have seen it in Germany.
If you could remind me how many stores that's in? And just in terms of what some of the initial reaction has been from a customer perspective? In other words is it driving average ticket? What its overall effect might be on throughput? How it might be affecting labor? And whether you kind of think that this is potentially a really big idea that you could use elsewhere in the system? John relative to self-order kiosk so France has really been our primary test market for self-order kiosks.
We do have a few in some other areas but the real key has been France.
That's where we're really modeling out the benefit of self-order kiosks.
It is not for every restaurant.
It is one of those things that helps us pull traffic away from the front counter and helps us get basically another initiation point in terms of being able to place orders which go back into the kitchen.
And so that is what self-order kiosk has done.
Now what it helps some of the areas in terms of early read it's that when you have an opportunity as a customer to be in a position where you're placing your own order you take your own time.
So if you're a person that takes a little longer or if you're a mom or dad with kids they tend to like the ability to go at their own pace with a self-order kiosk.
So those are the things that we're really testing.
I think right now we've got about 700 760 770 or so in France and we'll probably stay around that number until we've really proven out the business case for this.
Next question is from Keith Siegner Credit Suisse.
I have a question.
I'm very very impressed with the Europe performance.
It's very strong.
And while it's kind of broad-based across the board contributions the modernization and remodel is definitely definitely part of this.
And as you get closer to being done with that and have more critical mass I'm just wondering are you finding better or worse sales list now that you have more critical mass and awareness? And is this more than just initial sales let's say upon remodel but now that you're really establishing critical mass do you get more of a broad-based lift across the rest of the system? In other words is it a 1- 2-year or even 3-year lift you think as you get closer to critical mass? Just if you could help me think through that that would be great.
Yes Keith we know the reimaging is having a significant impact as you look around the -- but in Europe by the end of next year we hope to have 90% of the interiors done.
But to date we only have 40% of the exteriors done in Europe.
So we do still have opportunity to continue there.
And in France which is probably our -- they were the leader in this area they are looking at I’d call it second-generation of interior remodeling.
So when they're essentially done they're looking at what the next version of the reimaging.
And the good news is the way it was done and the materials used and the way it was all put together that second round of reimaging is much less expensive from a cost perspective.
It could be just changing some of the wall coverings or some of the seating and you're able to get an updated refreshed environment without a significant capital outlay.
But we're not really seeing a slowdown in terms of the impact when you do a new reimage relative to the marketplace.
So it's still in that let's say 6% to 7% sales lift when we do a reimaging.
And we aren't seeing that slowdown.
So we know it's a great investment for today and for the future and not only does it drive sales but when you look at all the customer attributes they tell us those services friendlier the food is hotter the restroom is cleaner.
They give us a lot of credit in that reimaged surrounding that does help the brand halo and helps their intent to revisit us.
All right next question is from Rachael Rothman Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> This is Jake Bartlett in for Rachael.
I just want a clarification on the pricing.
I know in the past you've talked about say 2% to 3% in the U.S.
I just want to see if that's still the case.
I know you're talking about food away from home of 3% to 4% and I think you mentioned being in that range.
But just want to clarify on the pricing.
The second question is about mix in the U.S.
We know what pricing is.
I'm wondering what happened to mix and maybe what that says about the consumer whether the consumer is kind of trading up in the menu.
I know beverages has a beneficial effect but whether in the rest of it they're kind of moving towards more premium higher priced items? Jake we've said in the past that in what we call a normal year a 2% to 3% price increase should allow us to maintain margins.
And underlying that assumption is that we have a normal commodity cost environment.
So that's commodity cost in that 2% to 3% range.
And it's also assuming that 2% to 3% gives us -- half of that growth is coming from pricing and half of that is coming from traffic growth.
So when years like now we've got more of our growth coming from traffic which means you need a higher comp and we've got commodity cost above that average.
So it's something more than the 2% to 3% comp to maintain margins in this current environment.
And so obviously we're going to -- as we've said before we're not solely going to monitor the company operating margins and focus solely on growing that.
We're going to look at that balance between continuing to drive customers continuing to take market share with the need to cover some of these input costs.
So that's our perspective on the pricing.
And Jake relative to mix and Pete mentioned it earlier we're still saying if you look across the menu board so if you look at the mix between the value component products and the rest of the products that we have those that are on Value Menu versus the rest we're still seeing about a 10% to 11% in terms of the Dollar Menu if you add Double Cheeseburger in there then it's up just a couple of points.
So if the mix has stayed basically the same now what's happened is we've got a lot more customers coming into the restaurants.
So that part is good.
We're still seeing a bunch of same mix there.
Clearly we're selling more beverages and seeing more of those kind of transactions which is very good for us.
But all in all the mix is not varied that much.
And I think the balance of being able to talk about core products and premium products like Angus along with beverages along with value has helped us to manage that mix.
All right we have time for one more question.
Next is Larry Miller from RBC.
LLC</strong> Maybe since I'm the last question I'll slip in 2 if you guys don't mind.
Just a quick one on the real estate ownership can you give us an update there? That was something you were looking at as real estate became more attractive.
And then secondly let me get your thoughts on the premium burger segment in the U.S.? There's a lot more competition there.
And your sense of how they're doing and is this any credible threat to your business? Larry regarding real estate ownership I think our desire in every restaurant opening is to own a real estate if we can do it at a reasonable price and get the unit economics to work.
Securing that tenure forever and that occupancy costs forever is our goal.
So in terms of 2011 we do have a greater proportion of purchased sites than we had in 2010 primarily in Europe where we focused a little bit more.
I still say that our expectation was maybe we'd see a little bit more distressed real estate on the market or opportunity to buy sites that maybe we couldn't in the past.
But we really aren't seeing that to a meaningful degree so nothing dramatically different in that regard.
We'll continue to focus.
With our 2012 development plans are starting to come together I expect we'll continue to see again increase in purchase size but not dramatically different than our expectations.
Larry and on the premium burger question and I'll speak of it from a U.S.
perspective clearly as where you see more of the advent of more premium burger outlets if you would coming into the marketplace.
And frankly I think it's good for us.
I think it's a benefit because those premium burgers have higher margin and we've got some of those same premium burgers.
When there's advertising on those we get a benefit.
So we're able to do Angus now.
As I mentioned earlier we've got a couple of other things we're looking at in the burger lineup.
Keep in mind Europe has already tested the 1955 very successfully.
Big burger Big Tasty has been out.
So we -- I'm really looking forward to us having even more premium burgers.
We'll manage it appropriately from a price perspective and be able to deliver that we think at an even much more of a value proposition based upon our supply chain and the efficacy of it.
But we'll also not only look at beef we'll look at chicken.
We're doing this around the world.
And so our menu pipeline is pretty strong and we look forward to capturing even more of the market.
All right.
So we are about out of time so I'm going to turn it over to Don who's got a few closing remarks.
So I want to really thank everyone for joining us this morning.
And in closing I'd like to just reiterate our confidence in the continued strength of our business around the world is very strong.
We're delivering solid results because the entire McDonald's system remains aligned behind executing our Plan to Win and focused on driving toward our mission to become our customer's favorite place in where to eat and drink.
We'll continue to focus on being smart and strategic in the current environment as we've talked about today while always striving to deliver the best customer experience that we can in each of our 33 000 restaurants around the world.
So thanks again and have a great day.
Hello and welcome to McDonald's October 21 2011 Investor Conference Call.
As a request from McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are our Chief Executive Officer James Skinner; and our Chief Financial Officer Pete Benson.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Jim I want to remind everyone that as always the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments and both documents are available at our website www.investor.mcdonalds.com as our reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with our corresponding GAAP measures.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Jim.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to share the latest business results for McDonald's which highlight our continued strength.
For the third quarter global comparable sales were up 5% and constant currency's operating income increased 8% and EPS increased 6% to $1.45.
Our global success continues with every area in the world contributing.
In the United States comparable sales for the quarter were up 4.4% and operating income grew 6%.
In Europe comparable sales for the quarter increased 4.9% and operating income grew 6% in constant currencies.
And in Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa comp sales for the quarter increased 3.4% and operating income grew 15% in constant currencies.
And our momentum I'm happy to say is continuing into October with global comparable sales expected to be up 4% to 5%.
McDonald's continues to drive results around the world by offering what customers are looking for today more than ever: great value outstanding convenience a modern restaurant experience and relevant great-tasting menu offerings.
Our entire system of franchisees suppliers and employers are aligned around our Plan to Win.
And we continue to focus on executing at the highest level against our 3 global priorities: optimizing the menu with the right food and beverage offerings; modernizing the customer and employee experience by upgrading every aspect of our restaurants from service to designs; and broadening accessibility through continued convenience and value initiatives.
Now as I've said before it's not just one initiative but a combination of all of them that continue to drive our growth.
In the area of menu we're seeing focused on the right balance of core products and new offerings are helping us stay relevant with consumers.
We've continue to build on our equity in chicken.
In the United States this quarter McNugget units were up nearly 10% over last year as we featured 4 new dipping sauces.
In addition our premium chicken sandwich line with the new flavor profile and bakery-style whole grain bun continued to perform strongly.
In Australia we launched 2 new chicken offerings a chicken and cheese snack and one with the bone-in McWings.
And both have been strong sellers.
And in Japan a renewed focus on Chicken Tatsuta a chicken sandwich helped grow sales.
Beverages also remain on opportunity around the world.
In the United States we energized our McCafé line with 2 additions: Frozen Strawberry Lemonade and Mango Pineapple Real Fruit Smoothies.
These new offerings added to our specialty Beverage lineup helped to increase total McCafé beverage sales by 16% over last summer's strong numbers.
McCafé is expanding globally as well.
We're building the business across Europe where we have more than 1 400 McCafés with Germany leading the way at over 750.
In APMEA Australia has 650 McCafés and we're planning to have approximately 250 in China by year's end.
And while international McCafés are focused on hot beverages right now we have a number of markets planning to test or add real fruit smoothies and frappes over the next few years starting with Australia next month.
Our practice continues to be an important day part for McDonald's as well as an opportunity for the future.
In China breakfast is achieving double-digit comparable sales increases and today has reached over 8% of sales.
Europe has only begun to scratch the surface with the U.K.
continuing to experience strong sales results of 13% of sales.
And in the U.S.
where breakfast represents about 25% of sales we've focused consumers in our lineup of wholesome offerings from oatmeal and Egg McMuffin to our Yogurt Parfait and Fruit and Walnut salad.
Total units on all of these products combined to increase more than 20% over last year and helped us to continue making gains during this very important part of the day.
In addition premium products have continued to deliver results with France being the most recent market-to-launch McWraps.
These are large wraps with chicken or beef that have performed well across Europe.
Rounding out our menu news Europe drove results with the use of customer-focused food events often featuring premium products.
The U.K.
built sales with a successful summer food event highlighted by the return of the bacon chicken onion sandwich leveraging the success experienced in Europe the U.S.
is planning a number promotional food events in 2012 that will feature new food news.
Around the world our markets are also making gains through strong experience in accessibility initiatives.
Europe is furthest along in modernizing their restaurants with new and relevant designs to provide customers with a great experience.
Each area of the world has benefited from Europe's experience and are making steady progress.
Meanwhile all of our top markets continued their trend of improving customer satisfaction scores through a stronger focus on operations and service and technology such as our new POS ordering system which elevates speed and accuracy and is now in nearly all restaurants here in the United States.
On the accessibility front we're staying focused on serving more customers more often in a variety of ways.
Across all geographies we continue to expand our extended hours in order to be able to be open and available when and where our customers want us to be.
We're also growing capacity especially at the drive-thru.
Drive-thru optimizations help drive results across APMEA with countries such as Australia and Japan registering the Lipton sales with a focus on their service excellence at the drive-thru.
In the U.S.
we're also elevating their commitment to drive-thru by side-by-side drive-thrus where real estate will allow on handheld order takers where space is limited.
We're also broadening our accessibility by continuing to offer the most relevant value.
Our value programs in breakfast and lunch continue to be important to growth across APMEA including Australia which has made gains from its new value campaign.
And all of our major markets in Europe continue to focus on the value provided by their popular mid-tier offerings from Little Tasters in the U.K.
to Snack Deluxe in Germany to P’tits Plaisirs in France.
With new flavors and promotions we're keeping these lines fresh and engaging for customers and elevating our position as a leader in great taste and quality at a great value.
We recognize today that the environment out there is still fragile.
The economists say we're officially out of the recession.
But it hardly feels that way.
Unemployment is back up over 9% here in the U.S.
and in similar rates around the world.
The stock market just ended its worst quarter in 2 years and many major economies are barely growing if at all.
Consumers everywhere continue to be cautious and hesitant to spend and the informal eating-out industry is growing at a very slow pace.
So we remain in a market share battle with every victory continuing to be hard won.
But we plan to keep winning.
The examples I highlighted from across our system demonstrate how we strategically have strengthened our business in a comprehensive way.
We remain committed to listening to our customers in meeting their needs at every turn whether it's in today's environment or down the road as the economy improves.
Now moving forward we're equally committed to maintaining a strong financial foundation and maximizing value for our shareholders.
Our intent remains to return all of our free cash flow after reinvestment to investors through a combination of dividends and share repurchase.
We recently announced a 15% increase on our quarterly cash dividend to $0.70 per share or the equivalent of $2.80 annually.
And combined with share repurchases we expect to total -- returned total cash to shareholders to 2011 to reach approximately $6 billion.
I'd like to say overall I'm very pleased with our latest quarterly performance.
While the economic recovery continues to be fragile around the world we stay focused on what we can control staying committed to our winning plans and delivering an exceptional experience for our more than 64 million customers around the world every day.
I'm confident that by continuing to innovate invest and execute we will help to continue delighting our customers in growing our business around the world.
Thank you and now I'll turn it over to Pete Bensen our CFO.
Thanks Jim.
Hello everyone.
McDonald's continued to deliver solid results despite another quarter marked by rising cost and macroeconomic uncertainty and volatility.
We're successfully navigating through this environment because of our alignment and focus around the Plan to Win.
This continues to yield significant increases in comparable sales market share and operating income.
Through the first nine months revenues increased 8% in constant currency.
And over that same period our combined operating margin increased 40 basis points to 31.8%.
This 80% of our 33 000 restaurants are franchised.
Our profitability is primarily driven by franchise margins.
In the third quarter franchise margins reached $1.9 billion an increase of $133 million in constant currency with each area of the world contributing to this growth.
The franchise margin percentage for the quarter rose 40 basis points to 83.7% driven by positive comparable sales.
Global company operating margin dollars increased to $26 million in constant currencies for the quarter to $972 million.
The margin percentage decreased 100 basis points to 20% as strong comparable sales were more than offset by higher costs primarily commodities.
Our McOpCo margin percentage remains at impressive levels considering the current operating environment.
In the U.S.
the company operating margins declined 90 basis points to 21.1% for the third quarter due to an 8% rise in commodity costs and to a lesser extent higher occupancy and other costs partly offset by positive comparable sales.
The third quarter margin percentage benefited by about 40 basis points due to the recognition of a special payroll tax credit created by the HIRE Act.
These prices which typically moderate after the summer have remained high.
As a result we now expect commodity cost in the U.S.
to be up a little more than previously expected 4.5% to 5% for the full year with fourth quarter increases easing compared to second and third quarter.
Partially offsetting the rising cost are the 2 price increases taken thus far in 2011 the 1% increase in March and the 1.4% increase at the end of May.
We're seeing good flow-through to the bottom line from these increases.
In addition food-at-home inflation is rising faster than food away from home which might allow for additional pricing actions in the near term.
We will continue to evaluate additional price increases in light of this inflationary environment always balancing our goal of driving traffic and market share gains with effectively managing the impact of rising costs.
As we look into 2012 we expect commodity cost increases in the U.S.
to be similar to this year's.
In Europe third quarter company operating margins declined 110 basis points to 20.9% primarily due to higher commodity and labor costs also partly offset by positive comparable sales.
In addition to prudently managing cost across the continent our European management team has developed effective marketing plans that feature value throughout the menu to drive sales.
In third quarter several premium products offered in our predominantly reimaged interiors were showcased within promotional food events.
This included the Big Tasty in France the Stars of America in Germany and the launch of the premium 1955 hamburger in the U.K.
Our price increases vary across the 40 European markets.
Russia which is experiencing higher inflation is an outlier.
Most other European markets are averaging year-over-year price increases around 2%.
As we consider future price increases we remain mindful of the extreme economic uncertainty cautious consumer sentiment amidst the austerity measures and shrinking disposable income.
we will continue to monitor this closely aware of the ongoing inflationary pressures while doing what is right to the long-term health of our business.
Similar to the U.S.
Europe slightly increases estimate for the full year commodity cost increase to 4.5% to 5% primarily due to higher beef costs.
this implies the fourth quarter increase slightly above the annual guidance.
Turning to Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa the company operating margins for the quarter decreased 50 basis points to 18.4% also reflecting inflationary cost pressures partially offset by comparable sales increases.
similar to the first half of the year the acceleration of new restaurants openings in China negatively impacted this segment's margin percentage.
Menu continues to be a significant driver of comparable sales growth in APMEA.
Innovative locally relevant product offerings of chicken the dominant protein in this region as well as breakfast compelling value offerings and a sustained core menu focus are building loyalty among our customer base.
Strong consistent financial performance from our unique business model generates meaningful amounts of cash flow.
We reinvest the significant amount of this cash back into our business to drive future growth and returns.
Our restaurant development teams are making excellent progress against their plans for reimaging and building new restaurants taking advantage of improved tools and capabilities.
As a result we are slightly increasing our 2011 capital expenditure guidance to $2.6 billion.
Reimaging remains an immense opportunity for us because the majority of our exteriors and interiors do not reflect our current contemporary look.
We continue to make progress across the globe on our reimaging efforts.
As of last week we have completed over 360 reimages in the U.S.
and given what we have under construction we are on track to complete and likely exceed 600 by the end of the year.
On average it is taking about 8 weeks to complete the exterior and interior reimaging.
And as we head into the winter months construction times will likely increase.
During construction the front counter is often closed for a period.
But in nearly all cases the drive-thru remains open to minimize any sales declines.
Most of the other owner operators who have committed to reimaging their restaurants this year sought to avoid construction during the busy summer months.
That explains why over 270 projects have broken ground since Labor Day.
Our owner operators remain committed to reimaging.
Our pipeline of projects is growing because they also view this as an important evolution of our brand.
I think it also speaks to their long-term commitment to making the necessary investments to keep McDonald's increasingly relevant to our customers.
In Europe we have reimaged over 600 restaurants through September.
France plan to have all of this interiors and half of its exteriors reimaged by the end of this year.
And the U.K.
expects nearly all of its restaurants will be reimaged by the end of 2012 having just recently completed its 1000th project.
In the APMEA we're also making significant reimaging progress having completed approximately 100 reimages in both Japan and China.
Currently about 20% of China's store base reflects the updated image.
But with new restaurant openings and planned reimages that number should approach what 40% by the end of next year.
We expect to open between 1 100 and 1 200 new restaurants this year on our base of 33 000 an increase of over 3%.
New openings by areas of the world include over 150 in the U.S.
more than 225 in Europe and about 650 in APMEA.
China is on track to finish near the upper end of the 175 to 200 new opening range.
Lastly let's turn to foreign currency translation which positively impacted third quarter results by $0.08.
At current exchange rates we expect full year EPS to benefit by about $0.20 which implies a minimal fourth quarter EPS benefit.
But as I always say this is directional guidance only given the volatility we are experiencing.
Our third quarter and nine-month results are a testament to the strength of the Plan to Win and its effectiveness in a persistently challenging and volatile macroeconomic environment.
Our business model is resilient.
The alignment within our system is strong and we are seizing opportunities now to secure an even brighter future for McDonald's.
I remain confident that we will continue to drive value for our shareholders over the long term.
Thank you.
Now I'll turn it over to Kathy to begin our Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] So our first question is from Jeff Omohundro from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> The Europe performance Europe sales seem be holding up very well in the face of the economic and political challenges there.
I'm wondering if you could give us any color on changes in consumer behavior you might be seeing there? And perhaps elaborate a bit on the strong performance in September.
Jeff I think first of all we're very confident in our business model in Europe and we've continued to perform there.
I think really August was a bit of an aberration in the overall scheme of things relative to plan days and promotional activities from previous -- from a year ago.
And so we continue to be confident in our initiatives there.
And we're not seeing a big impact really to our guest counts and the growth in the marketplaces with some of the austerity measures and some of the economic issues that are there that are impacting certainly discretionary income.
And so it's been actually a good example of how well our business model adapts in these various marketplaces around the world and in different kinds of economic environments we find ourselves in which is been our history.
As you know it's not the first time we've had to deal with these kinds of things around the world.
We've had our presence in Europe for a long time and have gone through various ups and downs in the economies and yet have been able to deliver steady performance on behalf of brand McDonald's.
Because of our business model and the way we're structured the everyday affordability as we like to say our customer's getting pinched everywhere.
They shouldn't get that at McDonald's.
And even these austerity measures and the lifestyles in Europe although they can be more harsh in some environments than others I think the standard of living and the discretionary income has to be impacted very very severely for us to start to feel that impact at the McDonald's front counter and drive-thru.
Next is David Palmer from UBS.
Research Division</strong> You've been ramping up pricing through the years slowly and I can understand why you have feel like you have more pricing power than the 2.5% given that 6%-type pricing that's going on at home at home food lately.
But my question is on Europe.
It feels like you've been fairly stingy on pricing there too away from the VAT only 2% outside of the hyperinflationary Russia.
And given that VATs may not soak up as much of your pricing power in 2012 I would wonder why you wouldn't feel like you can't maintain some sort of moderate pricing next year.
What is giving you the conclusion or the feeling that maybe you don't have as much room there if I'm getting that vibe correct? I think David first of all you're very familiar with our discipline around pricing.
And we take it at a point in time in terms of the impact of the marketplace food away at home food at home and as you know we try to balance that across the indexing.
And of course the economic environment.
But mostly we measure this by the cost environment and this food away from home.
And it doesn't mean based on everything we've said that we won't look at pricing for next year.
We probably will.
We look at it on a regular basis but can't really predict when we would take a price increase because it all matters -- it matters in terms of what we're seeing in the indexing at that point time.
I don't know that we've said we don't feel like we have the elasticity there.
I just think we're just very very cautious in the face of the economic environment we find ourselves in over there.
And we're going to be very prudent about the way we go about pricing.
As you said though we did take the 2.5% right off the top in the U.K.
when they had that VAT change.
And I think the important thing is that it hasn't had any impact really on our guest counts and traffic in the restaurants.
Next is Michael Kelter of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] Europe I mean what's going on over there? What about the emerging markets? It seems like as I understand it GDP is starting to roll over a bit.
And in China more severely at least at this point in Brazil few other places.
Are you seeing any impact your stores? Michael really I would say no we haven't.
China for the quarter delivered another strong comp.
It was 11.3% for the quarter on top of a double-digit comp last year in the third quarter with double-digit guest count growth in both periods.
So China continues to perform strongly for us.
The other emerging markets within APMEA so the South Korea the Taiwans the Philippines the Hong Kong et cetera.
All of those helped contribute toward the performance in the quarter and are seeing good sales and traffic growth.
We've always talked about the importance of value in that particular region of the world especially.
And it continues to be important.
But our formula over there is working well and we're continuing to see not only good sales and traffic but the profitability.
Next is Keith Siegner from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] in China a little bit continued very strong results there.
And with the commodity outlook at least at the last update was impressively below the trends in both the commodity markets and what we're seeing from basically almost everyone else in that market.
I'm just wondering is the current -- what is the current commodity outlook for China for this year? And to achieve such a dramatically low inflation relative to others was this effective contracting? Was there something else? I only ask because if 2011 was a result of really wise contracting could 2012 turn out to be a much more inflationary a year there? And then how do you think about pricing in China as a result? Well Keith I'll start.
And then I'll let Pete talk to you about the details in terms of what he thinks say up [ph] what's commodity cost there for the future.
But our supply chain connected with our treasury and our suppliers do a magnificent job relative to mitigating the impact on overall basis regarding these commodity costs around the world.
And sometimes I don't think they get enough credit for this because we take it very seriously and the process works very well for us.
And it's not the case for everybody.
They don't simply have that sort of structure or capability.
And so I think that's the reason why you've seen the results you've seen in kind in that regard.
Relative to the future I'll let Pete talk to you a little bit about what we're looking at.
Yes and Keith I know we had an investor meeting over there where we gave some commodity information.
That isn't something that we're going to typically update every quarter.
But I will tell you that it's based on the things Jim mentioned and as we have a preliminary look at next year we don't see any dramatic spike from that.
So I don't see us having to do anything dramatically different on the pricing side as a result of commodities.
As you know there's continual pressure on labor over there.
And while we continue to keep our rates ahead of the minimums there's always going to be some constant labor pressure as well.
But as we sit today we don't see anything dramatically different about next year compared to this year that's going to cause any different pricing perspective.
Next is Nicole Miller Regan from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> If we can turn back to the U.S.
and like everyone else have a question on pricing.
I've heard through the third quarter earnings season so far some companies reference barbell strategy and I know you use a tiered approach.
Could you talk about the importance of the tiered approach? And then as specific as you can where do you have the flexibility and what categories or types of items can you tell us where you sort of feel like you could take the price? Well Nicole I think -- I couldn't tell you specifically about each one of those categories to be honest with you.
But I leave that up to the U.S.
team to figure that out.
But the tiered pricing process has given us the opportunity to be able to have value across the menus.
So if you look at Dollar Menu then the tiered pricing and the middle and some of those great value offerings that we have in the menu snack wraps et cetera.
And then on the premium end with the premium sandwiches premium salads and that sort of thing we weigh all of that when we take a look at the menu mix relative to pricing and value for our consumer and then make a decision around that.
And I couldn't tell you exactly where the elasticity is.
If I could you'd probably think I'm spending my time in the wrong place.
But the U.S.
team has every geography is very very good at this.
And it's all based on market consumer data that we use in the pricing mix as Pete mentioned food away from home food at home.
And it gets broken down across the menu based on what we know about our product mix in the U.S.
and elasticity there.
Next up is Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up on the U.S.
pricing I mean are you looking more at kind of what your competitors as well as other channels are doing in terms of pricing? Are you looking at your own transactions? And talk about sensitivities I guess ask with your customers so just kind of looking at that economic sensitivity.
What's pretty much the biggest driver what will determine...
I think certainly the biggest drivers is certainly our consumer and their feelings about our pricing and everyday affordability on the menu.
Yes we take a look at what competitors are doing but not because we will necessarily make a decision based on that but we take all things into consideration as we look across the marketplace.
But mostly it's about this index of food at home and food away from home and we're very judicious about our price increases because maintaining everyday affordability particularly in the environment that we're in today is paramount.
And we have a pricing model that we use very very effectively.
And yet it takes intuition and a gut feeling about when to pull the trigger on these kinds of things.
And we take all of those factors into consideration because our pricing model and around our commodity cost and our supply chain.
And our ability to sort of manage the impact of those costs at the restaurant level is very important to us.
And not every other organization that takes prices or moves their pricing up and down has that strength or capability.
And so although we look at what others do and pay attention to that really it's an inside game here at McDonald's relative to pricing based on what our consumers are expecting from us.
Next is Joe Buckley Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the modest step-up in expansion plans to 2011? And this reflects maybe a little bit more aggressive posture those expansion going forward into 2012 and beyond? Yes Joe.
This is Jim.
When you look at our numbers around return on incremental invested capital which as you know has been one of our hurdle rates since our revitalization plan in all '03 has shown us that we -- because the results have been so great the goal was high teens and we've been in the 25th to 40th percentile depending on what segment of the business you're looking at.
And much of that combined with the average unit volumes of these new restaurants are coming on at and our development tools that we have been able to use around the world to determine where best to grow and have all come together and sort of given us permission to grow more restaurants around the world.
And that's the simple reason.
But we spend a very great amount of time around here and due diligence and not just throwing numbers out because we've had good results and say "Well we'll just up it." We take a real hard look at the metrics around new store openings and demand that our geographies pay attention to that and continue to deliver on things that are important as we grow the business.
But that's really the reason as we -- we've had good results and the ROI I see has demonstrated that those new restaurants have come online at a very productive and profitable way and therefore more opportunity.
Next question is from Jason West from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on the restaurant-level margins and I recognize most of the profits are coming from the franchise side.
But just touching on the restaurant margins looking at the items away from food it would seem you guys would've may be seemed a little bit more leverage on those items this year given the strong comps and just didn't know if there's anything there that's a little bit out of the ordinary or a little more inflationary than you expected.
And so there's an opportunity on some of these items next year to improve the restaurant margins if you have another tough year on inflation.
Jason I would say there's nothing in there that was significantly different or is a particular outlier.
It just so happens that almost every category of those cost is going in the wrong direction.
So utility's up a little bit.
Depreciation up a little bit.
That in part due to our reimaging efforts.
Labor is up.
The average wage is up in the U.S.
and generally around the world.
So there's no one particular item or no particular item is driving a significant piece of it.
But just a general inflation across all of the line items is really what's underneath that.
And since we look to next year I don't know that there's going to be anything dramatic on those line items either.
It's also important to note that we're right around all-time highs in the margins on the company side.
And this all gets back to pricing and top line and how much of that you can mitigate and certainly don't know if wanted to do that to the expense of the customers.
So we take all that into consideration but you have to continue to look at the fact that that number is at a pretty high level relative to the overall history of margins in the company.
Next question is Matt DiFrisco from Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Two questions I guess.
You mentioned China and some of the margins there being impact a little bit by the new store development.
I wondered can you describe what we should see over the next couple of years looking at sort of 50% of your store base is under 3 years old? When does it flip where the new younger stores are actually starting to ramp up and what does that look like as it progresses in the margins? And then also on Europe the remodels.
I was wondering if you could tell us what we should suspect or what we should expect in what you're seeing as far as same-store sales trends off of those stores have been now remodeled maybe 2 or 3 years ago? Matt Jim Skinner.
I'll start off with China and I'll let Pete talk about Europe and add his two cents in on China.
First of all the way we've developed in China in the major cities where we're mainly focused is through new developments if you will.
So the Chinese are very disciplined around developing new retail outlets and a whole combination of things.
They do these like cities if you will.
And so we go into those because we know we need to be there but in fact we go in there early as compared to the overall developments.
So you're going to see a benefit I think in year 2 or 3 on some of those new stores which should start to have an impact on that overall margin relative to the new store growth.
And it's the best way for us to develop the market because we need to be in those environments.
But it takes a little time for them to come on as the other population retail engagement in those properties begin to come online in a meaningful way.
And Matt that isn't dramatically different from what we see in other countries.
It maybe 10 basis points higher in China because of some of the specifics Jim mentioned.
But generally they start out a little bit lower and then by the third year they've pretty much caught up to the market average.
So if you think about what we're doing in China from a development standpoint we opened 166 last year.
We're going to open close to 200 or 200 this year.
That kind of incremental ramp up in new stores is really what's kind of causing that impact as we continue to increase the number of openings every year while slightly have more impact.
But it's definitely at the same time you've got more stores that are maturing to help offset that.
So again it's not dramatic but it is something we keep an eye on but is performing consistent with how other markets performed during their kind of their development ramp-up phase.
And in terms of the reimaging across Europe similar to the U.S.
those first year comps are up 6% to 7% ahead of the marketplace.
And if you've seen the results in Europe over the last couple of years sales continue to grow in that regard.
So we're comfortable that we're still seeing sales increases above the market in those restaurants.
And yet there's more than that just that sales increase that drives improvement in the customer's attitude about McDonald's and the surroundings they're in their perception of the cleanliness of the restaurant the quality of service and the food.
So it helps build that customer loyalty and drive more repeat business.
So it's performing the way we had hoped and expected it to.
Next question is from Andy Barish from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes a quick look out to 2012 and I'm sure we'll get a little bit more detail on this at the Analyst Day next month.
But as you look at the U.S.
business promotionally product wise is there new elements in the marketing strategy for next year? Would you characterize the year next year as more of kind of a line extension and re-hit some of the more recent things? Yes.
Andy I think it's probably closer to the latter.
I think if you look at the success we've had in 2011 -- so here we are 9 months in we had some pretty significant weather the first couple of months and yet we're still at a 4% comp nine months in.
Really we're at a combination of line extensions and what we call these premium food events which is a limited time offering.
So from the introduction of oatmeal to the barbecue bacon fourth flavor on the Angus to the Asian salad which was on for a limited time and a couple of new beverages et cetera I think as we review the 2012 calendar for the U.S.
it feels like a similar year to 2011.
Next question is Mitch Speiser Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> And as we think about 2012 and Pete I think you mentioned food costs about in line with 2011.
If we look at the third quarter I think we all probably think that comps were better than expected if and margins were worse than expected when we think about 2012 given the cost that was the same should we think about continued store-level margin pressure as we try to build out our models? Well Mitch if you look at the third quarter specifically in the U.S.
costs were up 8% which was the highest for the year so far.
They were up 6% in the second quarter and about 1% in the first.
So it's by far was the worst quarter.
Europe was up about 5% for the quarter which was kind of similar to the second quarter for them.
But the one thing you have to consider is certainly in the U.S.
when we flip the calendar to January of 2011 we had 0 pricing increases rolling over from the previous year.
Whereas when we flip the calendar to 2012 those first 2 months will have the benefit of the previous 12 months of price increases that we've taken in the U.S.
So that's certainly a factor and something we consider as we think about price increases frankly the rest of this year.
And I think something similar in Europe why we don't have the a preliminary estimate nailed down quite yet in Europe with the volatility and some of the currency markets over there and the commodities they're going to have a year probably that's similar or maybe a little bit better than the U.S.
from a cost side.
But we'll have an opportunity to refine that and maybe share it at the analyst meeting.
But it's going to continue to be as we look at what is going on in the marketplace is the consumer in a place that we're comfortable we can continue to add price increases or continue to monitor the impact on them.
If you look as Jim made some comments about Europe with everything going on there daily around the sovereign debt crisis and what's going on especially in the 2 big markets we do business in that are the ones that are supposed to bail out the continent hearing that all the time in the press does play on the consumer psyche.
So we'll continue to be mindful of that and we'll do what's going to be best for the long-term business from a price side and managed the input [ph] cost as best as we can.
Next question is from Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 follow-ups.
First on the food cost side of things.
May it seems like with 1 quarter to go you raised both the U.S.
and European basket at 50 basis points which would seem to imply like the fourth quarter is probably riding a couple of hundred basis points above a plan and a quarter ago.
Just trying to understand more conceptually how something like that has happened throughout the year in terms of what's locked what's kind of still exposed it sounds like it's beef that's the primary driver but was wondering if you could look at potentially what's contracted whether we should assume that kind of continued pressure.
I don't think you said that you finalize the European basket yet but just trying to understand kind of how it's contracted out how it can continues to rise.
And then the follow-up question was just on foreign exchange.
I think you gave good color on the fourth quarter as the impact and I don't want to be too specific for next year.
But if rates remain where they were right now kind of what would be the impact the early read on 2012 FX? All right Jeff.
The one issue with the commodities is we only give you guidance updates once a quarter.
And so you can't necessarily assume that all of the increase in our guidance is going to be felt in the fourth quarter because we actually started experiencing that in August and September.
And so while we knew the third quarter was going to be probably the highest cost-increase quarter of the year heading into that quarter and that's what we had messaged in July.
It actually primarily because of the beef costs which as you know historically is our least protected and hedged item.
That drove the increases.
So you're not seeing a 200 basis point deviation from our expectations in the fourth quarter on cost increases.
It's actually much closer than that.
And we're not going to get into item by item how much of this is protected.
But we've consistently said that beef is the wildcard for us in terms of it has the least amount of locked-in pricing.
And so while we didn't see the traditional falloff in prices after the summer of grilling season that we've historically seen and that falloff frankly was built into our last forecast.
But it's manageable for us.
And the good news is in the fourth quarter in the U.S.
those cost increases are going to be well below what they were in the second and third quarters.
So that's good.
And probably at the analyst meeting is when we'll start to give a first look at currency.
To be honest with you I haven't even formulated a view on that yet.
Next question is from John Ivankoe from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A question I think related just on the products overall in the U.S.
for 2012.
I mean certainly the new point-of-sale system does allow increased speed and accuracy so we want to get a sense of how that might influence product development what you offer to the customers and whether 2012 or beyond.
And secondly given the fact that in sort of your competition is you kind of backed-off focus I mean perhaps by necessity on their value menus and what your thought is of promotion of your Dollar Menu in 2012 I mean might it be less than what it's been in previous years based on less from the competition? Well I don't -- John this is Jim.
I don't know for sure exactly how much emphasis we want to put on Dollar Menu for next year except to say Dollar Menu is here to stay.
We have supported our franchisees for the Dollar Menu going into 2012.
The system for alignment around everyday affordability is extraordinarily strong.
And it's going to continue to be important and we will continue to communicate that to our consumers.
And so I don't see a lot of change there.
Relative to overall menu development and new product news the U.S.
is going to probably continue to talk about breakfast.
They'll talk about big sandwiches and other mid-tier.
The problem we have with a company like McDonald's is that the expectation around communication around all those of things is expected by our consumers.
And of providing them that choice on the menu has to continue to get better not get stale or go soft.
And so I expect that we will continue to communicate strongly around all of those day parts and all of those menu platforms.
And John as you pointed out the new register system is certainly one of the tools that will help facilitate that.
Our old register system couldn't have handled in any reasonable way the additional choice and variety that Jim is mentioning.
And it helps facilitate the introduction more easily as some of these what we call premium food events or rotating events that items will come on the menu for 6 8 12 weeks and then go away we couldn't have done that as easily or efficiently with our old register system.
So it is definitely a key piece of our menu strategy.
Next question is from David Tarantino Robert W Baird.
Research Division</strong> Pete just a question on overall franchise profitability.
I was wondering if you had any insight on how franchisees have been able to manage through the current environment in terms of their own cash flow profitability and whether they're seeing some of the similar pressures you're seeing on the restaurant cash flow margin line? And if so has that made them any less enthusiastic about investing in initiatives like reimaging or any of the product initiatives you have coming? Yes David this is Jim.
Although I think you asked Pete the question I was just with franchisees last week and the week before that here in the United States.
And of course we pay very close attention to franchisee cash flow and profitability going all the way back to Ray Kroc who said "First the franchisees make money and then everything else follows." And we've not changed our philosophy around that in 55 years.
And so the headline is that it continues to be very very good.
It is off slightly this year but it's off a record high last year.
And the franchisees I think are very very pleased particularly when you look at the alignment of the organization around our initiatives which we collaborate on very closely.
First of all we don't make decisions here at the center and then bark our orders to our franchisees.
They're part of the process in the Plan to Win.
And to profitability regarding those initiatives it's always a factor as we move forward with the progress and the sustainable growth of the organization which revolves around the cash flow for the franchisees.
It's a very good place right now and continues to be in a good place.
And much of this because of the system support for the franchisee profitability as we talked earlier about supply chain and locking and food costs that are going to be appropriate for them to be able to maintain some level of cash flow that's important to them.
In spite of the fact that we have these enormous commodity-cross increases that we've operated with we work together.
We do a very good job on this and I think you would find that they're very happy and supportive of the initiatives and because we decide together.
Our next question is from Sara Senatore Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to kind of wrap back to the U.S comp broadly and say "I think it's been so impressive in terms of how much you've outpaced the market and certainly the macro indicators." So you've talked a little bit about initiatives.
Can you kind of bucket where -- are you spending more on advertising in total? Is it just that your competitors are spending less? Is it are you doing better? Are your comps better in breakfast for example or snacking where you tend to be more dominant? Just trying to understand in the absence of a major product launch how it is that your comp trend has been so sustainable for so long? Sure this is Jim.
First of all on the communication in the share voice on advertising with our consumers.
It's remained as a percentage of historical expense about the same and about the same nationally except to say that we will continue to maintain those levels during the recession and the downturn.
And so our shared voice continues to be very very strong and we've always had the attitude of McDonald's that we need to be communicating at the same or greater levels during difficult times as compared to healthier times.
And so that's continued to grow and be very very effective for us.
But that's been the case really forever around here.
Relative to the day part growth we've had day part growth really across the board.
And I talked in my comments this morning about the growth around the breakfast and some of the items the Egg McMuffin and the value items and the nutritional items oatmeal and the rest.
And so -- and we're very balanced in our communication with our consumers around these things without -- because we don't have the luxury of pushing one side of the business versus another side of the business because we've got such high hurdles to really get over regarding the overall experience throughout the entire business day.
And so we're very pleased with the results.
But I think you would see a very sort of deliberate focus around all of day parts and communication and continuing to maintain our share of voice which by the way is very supported nationally by our franchisees and they're somewhere in the 1% to 2% range and overall store contribution with local contribution is somewhere in the 3% to 6% range.
And it's sort of been that way for the last few years.
Next question is from Brian Bittner Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the stores that you'll be remodeling across the globe over the next few years what percentage if you can quantify are more than just an interior-exterior phase? With what percentage of these really of the opportunity to meaningfully increase the throughput and efficiency of the store kind of outside of just implementing new POS systems? Brian I don't have the specific reimage plan by country in front of me over the next couple of years.
But I will tell you that a majority of them have an opportunity to undergo a major improvement.
What we see in the U.S.
and this probably should make sense but when we're able to because we have enough real estate add a side-by-side drive-thru at the same time we're doing the full interior and exterior reimage we're seeing the greatest sales increase.
And anything we can do to increase that capacity is going to just kind of exponentially improve the sales that you get from just doing the reimaging interior and exterior.
But we look at that and as Jim mentioned in his remarks if we don't have the real estate to do the side by side then we go down and say "All right well then let's use a handheld order taker to try to get those multiple order points in the drive-thru to increase our capacity." And I think today we have almost 1 000 of those handhelds in the U.S.
and increasing those numbers.
So there is plenty of opportunity to continue these improved results that we're seeing today.
Next question is from RJ Hottovy from MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question about the international McCafé rollout especially I see you moved past hot beverages.
Just wondering if you had any expectations in terms of incremental sales per location? In the past you talked adding about $125 000 per location in the U.S.
and I believe that's the whole beverage platform but just any kind of expectations with the international McCafé rollout? RJ this is Jim.
On the McCafé we've served beverages around the world differently forever really.
So if you like you can take McCafés.
McCafés really started in Australia.
McCafés have expanded in Europe.
Europe really had what they would call their McCafé program before the United States.
And so the United States version of course in line with the front counter so we can facilitate drive-thru.
These are all really different concepts.
And yet with the expansion of the blended iced drinks and the smoothies and the other kinds of things into the markets around the world I would say that okay as we review our plans coming up in the next month or so for 2012 from the area of the worlds I would doubt whether they really have that quantified to the extent where I would be able to tell you what expectation is on a store-by-store basis.
The reason why we quantified it the way we did for United States is because you asked us to one.
And two because at a wholesale basis we were rolling out something that was going to impact nearly 14 000 stores.
And so we were capable of doing it that way because it was a unified program that was consistent throughout every store.
We don't have that same experience in every store other than the fact that if you're selling fruit smoothies that might be consistent.
But the footprint platform and the ability for us to be able to expand McCafé is somewhat different in every market.
Okay and this will be our last question as we're running out of time.
It is from Jon Tower from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Given what's going on in the European macro environment just curious to know if you're beginning to see any lower labor turnover at the store level and/or any lower cost advertise in that market? I wouldn't say Jon that we've seen anything significant there.
We've had very good results over the past number of years because of our people migration plans and understanding the relationship as you modernize the experience in the restaurant.
It has to be modernized for the customer or for the employees as well.
And we do a lot of things there to retain our people in the organization.
And yet I wouldn't say that because of austerity or the unemployment numbers or any of these other issues that we're facing all of our people around the world that that yet has changed significantly.
Okay with that I'll turn it back to Jim with -- he has a few closing comments.
Yes.
I just like to say thanks for joining us this morning.
In closing I want to reemphasize the ongoing strength of our global business and our confidence in the continued success of our brand.
I think we've demonstrated our fundamentals and Plan to Win strategy is strong and I'm optimistic that we will continue to drive results in the future.
Thanks and have a great day.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your line.
Hello and welcome to McDonald's January 24 2012 Investors Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
With me on the call are our Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner; Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen; and Chief Operating Officer Don Thompson.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Jim I want to remind everyone that as always the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments and both documents are available at www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with our corresponding GAAP measures.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Jim.
Thank you Kathy.
Good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report a strong fourth quarter and another strong year for McDonald's in 2011.
System-wide sales increased 7% in constant currencies with global comparable sales up 5.6% marking our eighth consecutive year of positive comp sales growth in every area of the world.
We closed the year on a high note with fourth quarter comp sales up 7.5% the highest quarter in over 7 years and December comp sales at 9.6% reflecting positive momentum and a weather benefit in Europe and the U.S.
This momentum continues as we begin 2012 with global comparable sales for January expected to be up 5.5% to 6.5%.
In constant currencies operating income grew 14% for the quarter and 10% for the year while EPS increased 15% for the quarter and 11% for the year.
Over the past year we again exceeded our long-term financial targets of 3% to 5% sales growth 6% to 7% operating income growth and returns on incremental invested capital in the high teens.
And while returns are not yet finalized we will be well above that target.
And with a 35% total return for investors McDonald's was the #1 performing company on the Dow for the 1- and 5-year periods ending in 2011.
The global economy remains challenging with a recovery that's predicted to be slow and prolonged and our industry still faces significant headwinds including flat to slow growth low consumer confidence and volatile commodity prices.
Amid all this we remain committed to the Plan to Win and elevating our efforts around the 5 Ps of our business: people products place price and promotion.
We still have plenty of growth through the Plan to Win and we're seizing those opportunities with a focus on our global priorities of optimizing the menu modernizing the customer experience and broadening the accessibility to our brand.
We're committed to building our brand in this holistic and comprehensive way.
It's an approach that continues to drive our success around the world.
Looking at the United States comp sales increased 7.1% for the quarter and 4.8% for the year with operating income up 15% and 6% respectively.
These results were achieved despite a tough economy and we continued to grow market share and guest counts during a period when overall industry traffic was contracting.
Our performance in the U.S.
was driven by a focus on our value menu relevance and convenience.
We continue to benefit from our Dollar Menu at breakfast which has been in place for over 2 years now and has fortified our leadership position in breakfast as well as our position as a value leader across the entire day.
Our beverage platform is attracting even more customers with line extensions such as our seasonal Peppermint Mocha offering in December which helped increase total McCafé specialty coffee units by nearly 20% over last year.
And later this year we'll be adding the Cherry Berry Chiller to the McCafé blended ice lineup.
The U.S.
also built sales by focusing on promotional food events and core menu with a national promotion of McRib and another highly successful MONOPOLY promotion as well as a December promotion of Big Mac increasing units by 11% over last year.
In 2012 we will leverage our success with line extensions and new flavors as well as promotional food events to build sales.
In addition to the Cherry Berry Chiller we will roll out Chicken McBites and will expend on last year's successful launch of oatmeal with the addition of blueberry banana nut oatmeal.
We will also continue to feature our flagship core items: Big Mac hamburger cheeseburger Chicken McNuggets and our world-famous French fries all of which account for roughly 30% of our sales.
U.S.
is also building capacity improving convenience with more than 1 100 stores utilizing handheld order takers to help increase restaurant throughput.
More than 1/3 of our freestanding restaurants now have some type of multiple ordering points whether it's handheld order takers inline tandem or side-by-side drive-thru.
In 2012 we will continue to build capacity to handle more demand as we know that most of our restaurants can increase throughput with successful labor and operation solutions that are already in the system today and need to be scaled.
Turning to Europe comparable sales were up 7.3% for the quarter and 5.9% for the year.
In constant currencies operating income grew 12% for the quarter and 10% for the year.
Europe was a big contributor to overall results even as consumers felt the impact of austerity measures the sovereign debt crisis and an overall volatile economy.
Our big 3 markets of France the U.K.
and Germany along with Russia led the way by delivering stronger operating results for both the quarter and the year.
We made gains in Europe through a focus on exciting menu news particularly premium food events that resonated with customers.
Germany featured several popular limited-time sandwiches while the U.K.
drove sales with promotional chicken offerings and France saw good results with a lineup of innovative hamburger bagel sandwiches.
In addition a continued focus on 2 of our popular new premium offerings McWraps and the 1955 burger helped increase sales.
At the same time Europe stayed committed to delivering compelling fourth-tier options and promoting everyday affordable pricing for consumers feeling the pressure in their local economies.
In 2012 we will further enhance our relevance by adding another 150 McCafés to Europe's existing base of 1 500 while continuing to leverage popular fourth-tier and premium offerings including a re-hit of the sandwiches Chicken Mythic in France and Chicken Legend in the U.K.
Meanwhile Europe's reimaging efforts will continue to be a key differentiator providing our customers with a fresh inviting and relevant experience.
We plan to broaden that reach with 90% of interiors and 2/3 of exteriors reimaged by the end of 2012.
And over the next 3 years we will implement our updated POS ordering system which enhances accuracy and service.
As we continue our efforts in Europe I'm confident that our strategies around modernization value and menu will resonate with consumers and yield results for our business.
Shifting to Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa or APMEA for the quarter and year comp sales were up 6.9% and 4.7% respectively.
We delivered significant operating income growth of 19% for the quarter and 17% for the year in constant currencies.
APMEA remained focused on building breakfast providing exceptional affordability and convenience and delivering menu excitement and variety.
Breakfast continued to be the fastest-growing day part for many markets including our big 3 markets of Australia Japan and China.
Compelling value at breakfast combined with a focus on our menu and coffee as well as popular local offerings including the tuna muffin in Japan and new muffin sandwiches in Australia helped drive results.
Australia also made gains with new menu news including a successful launch of smoothies and frappes and a lineup of popular promotional items to celebrate its 40th anniversary.
Across Malaysia China and Japan new varieties of chicken offerings also positively impacted the top line.
In 2012 we will maintain our focus on new and innovative offerings around chicken as well as locally relevant products such as chicken and beef sandwiches with bacon lettuce and tomato in Australia and the return of our successful line of Big America burgers in Japan.
Throughout APMEA our value leadership remained a draw for customers.
Value at lunch was a strong driver across the region particularly in China where our Value Lunch program has become a true brand differentiator.
Driving sales and guest counts through that program has been very successful.
It's also achieving results in Australia which has experienced lagging consumer confidence as a result of the economic slowdown there.
And APMEA's convenience initiatives around delivery dessert kiosks and extended hours make our brand more accessible and easier for customers to use in the growing eating-out market.
In 2012 we will continue to expand services like delivery in Asia and increase our extended hours across the region.
Overall we remain extremely excited by our progress and potential in APMEA especially in China where we opened a record 200 restaurants in 2011; and in Japan which is recovering after the devastating tsunami there last March.
With the delivery of another strong year I'm confident in our business strategies and the opportunities for growth that lie ahead.
And the headline is that we're staying on the move in 2012.
As we begin the New Year I want to reiterate our capital management philosophy.
Our business delivers significant cash flow and our philosophy for the use of cash remains unchanged.
Our first priority remains reinvesting in our business.
In 2011 we opened 1 150 new restaurants and reimaged 2 500.
In 2012 we plan to spend $2.9 billion in capital to accelerate our development plans.
Half of our planned capital expenditures will go toward opening more than 1 300 new restaurants in both emerging and mature markets.
The remaining half will be invested in existing restaurants to help modernize the brand predominantly through our reimaging effort making our restaurants more modern and appealing for our customers.
With about 45% of our interiors and 25% of our exteriors reimaged globally we have tremendous opportunity to keep building on a proven initiative that increased both sales and brand scores.
To that end we're planning to reimage more than 2 400 restaurants in 2012.
After reinvesting in the business we are committed to returning all of our free cash flow over the long term to investors.
In 2011 we returned $6 billion to shareholders through a combination of share repurchase and dividends.
Overall I'm proud of what we've accomplished in 2011 as a system.
Our talented and committed owner/operators suppliers and employees continued working together to make every experience great for our guests which have now reached nearly 68 million a day.
We continue to gain market share attract more customers to our brand and fortify our financial strength.
Our Plan to Win and the focus on the customer has been a proven strategy in any environment and we continue to serve -- this plan will continue to serve us well in 2012 and beyond.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it over to Pete Bensen our CFO.
Thanks Jim and hello everyone.
As our fourth quarter and full-year performance demonstrates McDonald's global business is resilient and fundamentally strong operating effectively across varying markets and economic conditions.
Our ability to continue to generate positive comparable sales combined with prudent expense control amidst an inflationary environment drove a 60-basis-point improvement in combined operating margin for the year with every area of the world contributing.
At 31.6% our operating margin compares quite favorably to other large global consumer companies.
Turning to restaurant-level margins.
Our global system is 81% franchise and our overall profitability is driven primarily by franchise margins.
For the full year consolidated franchise margin dollars increased 9% in constant currency to $7.2 billion.
The consolidated franchise margin percent driven by solid comparable sales growth in each area of the world rose 70 basis points to 83.1% for the quarter and increased 60 basis points to 83% for the full year.
For a perspective that 83% is our highest annual franchise margin since 1993.
Consolidated company-operated margin dollars increased $66 million for the quarter.
As a percentage of sales margins declined 30 basis points to 18.7% for the quarter and flipped 70 basis points for the full year as positive comparable sales were more than offset by higher cost most significantly commodities across all segments.
Considering the significant cost pressure and economic volatility we experienced this year I'm pleased to end the year with a consolidated margin of 18.9%.
Menu pricing has a significant impact on margins and our philosophy remains intact as we start 2012.
Where warranted we will strategically take increases to offset some but not all of our higher costs.
Maintaining traffic growth has been such a critical element of our recent success so we remain focused on a balanced approach to growing traffic and average check at our restaurants while being mindful of store-level margins.
Looking at segment performance the U.S.
once again delivered strong comparable sales growth in both the quarter and full year by remaining focused on the customer.
Our 2011 comp increase of 4.8% was the highest since 2006.
Amidst an IEO market that saw a traffic decline of 0.3% through November McDonald's continued to outpace the competition and grew market share by 50 basis points to reach an all-time high of 12.5%.
This translated into over 350 million additional customer visits compared to 2010.
Several factors contributed to this success including introducing relevant new products like Fruit &amp; Maple Oatmeal and Mango Pineapple Smoothies; promoting iconic products such as the Big Mac Chicken McNuggets and the ever-popular McRib; optimizing our menu by evolving product offerings in key categories such as premium chicken sandwiches; broadening accessibility through extended hours now nearly 40% of our restaurants are open 24/7 and 89% open by 5:00 a.m.; and also modernizing the customer experience with contemporary new rebuilt and reimaged restaurants.
For the quarter U.S.
company-operated margins grew 40 basis points to 21% as comparable sales growth of 7.1% more than offset 4% higher commodities and other cost increases.
For the full year company-operated margins declined 70 basis points to 20.6% still an impressive level considering the environment.
As we look to 2012 we continue to project commodity cost increases of 4.5% to 5.5% in the U.S.
with increases above this range expected in the first half of the year particularly first quarter.
From a pricing standpoint we begin the year in the U.S.
with a 3% increase over the last 12 months.
This is the result of taking small increases throughout 2011 the most recent being in November when we took an increase of less than 1%.
Our total increase for the year approximated food-away-from-home inflation while food-at-home inflation was about 6%.
Looking to 2012 we will continue to monitor both indices closely to maintain our strong value proposition.
Europe's positive momentum continued in 2011 with strong comparable sales growth.
Our restaurants in Europe are some of the best representations of our brand with about 80% of the interiors and nearly half of our exteriors reflecting a current contemporary look.
This has allowed us to stretch our brand as reimaged locations attract new customers and invite existing customers to visit us more often.
Menu innovation including premium products as well as locally-relevant fourth-tier items contributed to the success in the U.K.
France Germany Russia and all of our 35 other European markets.
Strong comparable sales helped to offset a significant portion of the higher commodity labor and occupancy costs that we experienced in Europe.
Fourth quarter company-operated margins declined 30 basis points to 19.2% due in part to 6% higher commodity costs.
For the year company-operated margins were down 50 basis points to 19.3%.
Europe's commodity inflation is expected to moderate a bit in 2012 with a projected increase of 2.5% to 3.5%.
Similar to the U.S.
the most significant pressure will be felt in the first half of the year.
The overall increase is expected to be less than the U.S.
primarily because of more favorable prices for beef and packaging.
In terms of pricing in 2011 Europe averaged a 2% increase excluding Russia which is experiencing significantly higher inflation.
This year with lower commodity cost increases and continued economic volatility we will again likely see lower menu price increases excluding Russia compared to the U.S.
Adding to the economic volatility in Europe are the various austerity measures being implemented.
VAT increases in France Portugal and Hungary as well as other austerity measures are impacting customers' purchasing power and challenging our margins through higher social charges and new taxes.
In addition high levels of unemployment are projected to continue for the foreseeable future.
All of these factors compounded by the euro zone debt crisis are taking a toll on consumer confidence which hit a 2-year low in December.
Despite this backdrop our European business remained strong.
We have the right people and plans in place to grow our business in 2012 and beyond.
The results achieved since 2008 give us confidence in our ability to continue to successfully navigate through these current conditions.
Turning to Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa virtually every country posted positive comparable sales for the quarter and full year including Japan no small feat considering the tragedy that occurred in March and the subsequent challenges.
I believe it speaks to the resiliency and commitment of our system to be there for our customers especially in times of great need.
Several markets in APMEA including Japan China and Australia delivered exceptional value at breakfast and lunch making McDonald's more affordable more often.
Menu news is also playing an important role in driving top line sales through limited-time offers and relevant new product launches.
Relative to profitability APMEA's company-operated margin was down 80 basis points for the quarter at 16.3% as positive comparable sales were more than offset by higher commodity labor and occupancy costs.
For the year company-operated margins declined 50 basis points to 17.3%.
New store growth in China negatively impacted our margins but we believe this impact is temporary and remain very bullish about the long-term potential of this market.
Regarding G&amp;A in constant currency consolidated G&amp;A decreased 1% for the quarter and was flat for the year.
This was a little higher than our initial expectations primarily due to higher incentive-based compensation resulting from the strong fourth quarter performance.
We project 2012 G&amp;A to increase about 6% in constant currencies due in part to the 3 items discussed at our November investor meeting the first being the technology enhancements across several markets to extend restaurant capabilities and upgrade our HR and financial systems.
The other 2 significant noncomparable items are the costs associated with the second quarter biennial owner/operator convention and the third quarter London Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Next I'd like to comment briefly on our tax rate which we expect to be between 31% and 33% for 2012.
In 2011 our effective tax rate benefited from a couple of noncash deferred tax adjustments that will not repeat this year resulting in a slightly higher 2012 range.
Bear in mind that our global effective tax rate is impacted by a multitude of factors in the countries where we operate as well as any potential legislation that could affect the rate in a given year.
Our proven ability to increase sales generate strong margins and control spending all within a heavily franchised model combined to generate significant cash flow.
Our first priority is to reinvest in our business.
We believe now is an opportune time to strategically increase new store openings while continuing a significant focus on reimaging.
We have the financial capacity and talent to invest when many others cannot.
This is a competitive advantage that we intend to leverage to further differentiate the McDonald's experience.
As Jim discussed about half of our $2.9 billion of CapEx will be used to open more than 1 300 new restaurants.
The breakdown for openings at our largest geographic segments is as follows: 175 in the U.S.; 250 in Europe; and 750 in APMEA including 225 to 250 new restaurants in China.
The other half of our CapEx will be invested in our existing locations including reimaging at least 2 400 restaurants.
In November we indicated that the U.S.
would likely exceed 600 reimages by the end of 2011.
I am pleased to report that over 900 U.S.
restaurants were reimaged last year.
This underscores the strong commitment and financial ability of our franchisees to invest to enhance the image and operational efficiencies of their restaurants.
For 2012 we expect the U.S.
to reimage 800 restaurants while Europe expects to reimage about 900 and APMEA about 475.
Reimaging is a key component of modernizing the customer experience as it provides a strong foundation for future growth and further brand differentiation.
Lastly I'd like to touch on foreign currency translation which remarkably did not affect fourth quarter EPS but benefited full-year EPS by $0.19.
At current exchange rates we expect first quarter 2012 EPS to be negatively impacted by $0.02 to $0.03.
The projected negative impact is more pronounced in second and third quarters with a full-year negative impact of $0.16 to $0.18 2/3 of which is being driven by the weaker euro.
Remember these are projections at today's rates and will likely change as we move through the year.
As we begin 2012 I am confident in the strategies and plans that we have in place.
We enjoy a brand advantage in convenience menu variety and value; a strong financial position that allows us to seize the opportunities in front of us; and franchisees suppliers and company employees who are aligned and committed to further widening our competitive advantage.
We remain focused on continuing to profitably grow market share and drive value for our shareholders and the global system in 2012 and beyond.
Thanks.
Now I'll turn it over to Kathy to begin the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Pete.
I'm going to now open the call for analyst and investor questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Kelter from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the U.S.
specifically which on a 2-year basis accelerated to the highest level in years so that equivalized [ph] for any of the weather impact.
And I wanted to understand more about what you perceive to be the primary drivers.
And the reason I ask is in my opinion the 2012 MPT [ph] pipeline seems maybe a little lighter than last few years.
And I'm curious if you think you could sustain the high level you've established mostly based on the core.
Or secondarily as part of this question is there maybe something in the pipeline that's more meaningful for the back half of the year 2013 maybe that you're internally excited about and not just -- you're not talking about yet? Well Michael this is Jim and then maybe Don would like to talk about the U.S.
business in terms of the pipeline.
But I think the answer to your question is yes we do believe we can sustain our growth with core being the fundamental driver of that as I mentioned in my comments this morning.
Core plays an enormous role in terms of our overall sales growth and the top line every year not just in 2012 as it did in 2011.
And you have to remember that some of these new menu items as well that we add on are not all 13th month yet from last year.
And at the same time we're continuing to add new menu items in the pipeline around the McCafé and other sandwich line items.
And so I don't know if Don you want to talk -- and we have no visibility around the back half of 2013 just yet.
Or if we do no one's told me about it.
Michael in the U.S.
several major drivers.
One of which has been consistent over the last several years is breakfast continues to drive the business not just from a value component perspective but also even in some of the new product entrées such as oatmeal.
We continue to see leverage from some of the McCafé-based beverages even the blended ice beverages which are spread across the day.
So we get some lift from that.
The whole notion of core that Jim mentioned is really big in the U.S.
and not just Big Macs have played very very well.
But there's a lot of other basic things that the U.S.
is doing.
Expanding hours and continuing to extend that is something that's helping us out.
The benefit that the U.S.
has today relative to core or technology and the fact that we now have the restaurants up on a new POS platform is allowing us to be able to begin to address capacity particularly at peak hours in a stronger fashion.
So those things all of those components and several others are really helping the U.S.
continue to drive.
What the U.S.
has not done as much yet and we still have headroom is some of the global pipeline also that Jim alluded to in terms of premium-based sandwiches from Europe are still products that we have opportunities within the U.S.
And I know the team is looking at that.
Our next question comes from David Tarantino from Baird.
Research Division</strong> A question on Europe.
And Pete I know you mentioned all the issues and austerity measures and low consumer confidence in December yet your comps ended the year on a high note.
So I was just wondering if you could maybe comment on the underlying tone of business and whether you're starting to see any signs that the consumer is starting to pull back as you parse through your data either in your internal data for McDonald's or as you look at the market conditions.
Yes David this is Jim.
I'll just give you an overview from my vantage point.
You've already talked about all the bad news in Europe and certainly there are a number of issues there that we have to deal with in terms of headwinds.
But I think regarding the McDonald's brand despite negative market momentum McDonald's continues to show increases in both informal eating out and the QSR share.
We continue to take share in those marketplaces.
And sales have been solid.
Our value convenience and overall business model continues to serve us well there.
We're positioned well with branded affordability strategic menu price increases in premium products across the board in Europe.
And as I've said many many times I think that our business model serves us well in any environment as long as we propel ourselves through that time period with the proper level -- levers in our business.
The most important thing right now around the world and has been really if you look at it for the last 8 to 9 years is everyday affordability on the menu coupled with premium sandwiches and fourth-tier menu items in that marketplace that continue to serve us well along with the reimaging.
We've not stood still.
So if you look at the contemporary nature of our brand in that market during what one could term a very very difficult economic downturn which we've had before in Europe -- this is not the first time we've gone through this -- McDonald's continues to push forward on behalf of the consumers in those marketplaces and it continues to serve us well.
Now relative to parsing the data which is something that Pete would do maybe he has some other information that might differ from my opinion.
No.
David I think Jim gave a good overview.
And in terms of looking at things like menu mix or product change we're really seeing no change in customers' behavior.
The premium food events and fourth-tier items continue to sell extremely well and that happened throughout the fourth quarter.
Your next question is from David Palmer from UBS.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on margin leverage at the restaurant level.
Certainly this was a year that the franchise revenues and the G&amp;A and just your top line accelerating through the year with inflation and innovation those were the big drivers.
But company margins haven't been in the game here.
Do you expect 2012 to be perhaps a year when your price catches up to inflation particularly with the momentum you have and you start to see more leverage at the company restaurant level? David this is Jim.
Is that a pricing question? Or is that a...
Research Division</strong> It's a company -- are you going to just -- are we going to see margin leverage at company restaurants in 2012? But maybe directly you're not going to answer that.
I'm just wondering if the balance is going to improve because I mean certainly through the fourth quarter we weren't seeing leverage on that part of your business yet particularly in Europe.
I'll let Pete talk a little bit about the margin leverage.
Yes David specifically about Europe as we head into 2012 based on the guidance we've given so we expect commodity cost increases to be lower in Europe compared to 2011.
Some of these incremental austerity measures so the increased social charges and some of the other taxes that are hitting the restaurants those are going to be -- while we'll have some new ones the magnitude of those will be lower than we saw in 2011.
On the negative if you will it's an uncertain pricing environment there.
So while we mention these things that are happening to the consumer we're still optimistic we'll be able to take some price.
But when you throw all that in the hopper I think on a trend basis compared to 2011 we have an opportunity in Europe to finish this year better trend-wise than we did 2011.
The U.S.
looks more like a similar year to 2011 frankly.
Cost increases are going to be similar.
We're -- 7 states hit us with minimum wage increases here January 1 in the range of 4% to 5%.
And again while we'll take a similar philosophy and approach to our pricing throughout the year food at home is expected to be up 3% to 4% this year; food away from home 2% to 3%.
And those are kind of some guide rails we look at.
So again factoring all that in it feels pretty similar.
But on a consolidated basis the margin trend should be a little better than it was in 2011.
But I did point out specifically in my comments that it's going to be a little choppy in the quarters.
And then the first quarter we're going to see the highest increase in commodities for the year.
And next question is from Joe Buckley Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask 2 things actually the China same-store sales number for the quarter.
And then sort of similar to the question about Europe curious if you're seeing anything encouraging on the U.S.
consumer's part in terms of this very strong U.S.
performance.
Any change in pattern or mix or anything of that sort? Joe I'll take the China question and then Don can talk about the U.S.
consumer.
In the fourth quarter comps in China were 15.6 with double-digit guest count growth as well.
And that's on top of a mid-single-digit increase last year fourth quarter.
Joe and on the U.S.
consumer side just from -- and I'll reference this from a purchase perspective in the U.S.
They'll come with things we always look at in terms of trying to determine whether or not we see substantial consumer movement one of which is daypart analyses.
So as we look at dayparts like evenings and breakfast do we see -- are we seeing more momentum in some of those dayparts which typically starts to -- if you correlate that with some of the unemployment numbers and some of the hired numbers the new job numbers it tends to help us a little bit.
We see a little bit of movement.
I mean our evening dayparts were a pretty strong comp and breakfast has been a pretty strong comp for us.
But it's still pretty early to tell.
And Pete mentioned the word volatile.
I think in the U.S.
we're still volatile.
And so our value still appeals.
But even in our value numbers we've not seen our value numbers really change dramatically from a percent of sale perspective.
So we know that the P mix [ph] is pretty solid.
We do see some strength in evening dayparts and breakfast but I think it's a little too early to tell whether or not this is a sustainable trend.
Our next question comes from Jason West from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
I guess first if you could parse out the weather impact for us as you did last year in Europe and U.S.
And then any color on the timing of some of the new products that you've announced such as McBites or the oatmeal or maybe smoothies internationally.
I'm not sure where you guys stand on that timing.
Jason the weather impact we talked about last year having like a 2-point impact in the U.S.
and a 5-point impact in Europe in December.
So that's basically what we overcame this year and what benefited this year's -- or 2011 December.
Regarding new products Don you want to take a stab at that one? Kind of real quick across the board in terms of new products we see on the beverage front Australia just launched smoothies.
And so we're taking a good read of that.
They've got some pretty good volume on the first launch of that.
We see some of the other premium sandwiches particularly the wraps that started off in Austria and Poland -- those are really traveling around Europe quite aggressively.
We see also the ability for us -- we're seeing a little bit more of some of the premium sandwiches that Europe has had also stretching into some of the Asia/Pacific Middle East markets a little bit.
Probably the biggest of all of the menu pieces I would say is breakfast.
Breakfast is beginning to circulate around the rest of the world.
We're starting to see some changes.
The U.K.
is up to about 14% and Germany is at about 5%.
So if you look at the U.S.
relative to 25-plus percentile you begin to say "Wow.
There's some tremendous opportunity there." So we got a lot of room still in breakfast products the premium sandwiches.
Wraps are traveling.
McBites are in the U.S.
from Australia and smoothies and beverages are traveling around the world.
So those things are going to continue.
Not everyone is going to launch smoothies in 2012.
It'll be kind of stretched out over several years around the world.
Jason specifically about the McBites we launched that product nationally yesterday.
So you'll start to see national advertising for that.
And that's a limited time promotion that will be around for a couple of months.
And our next question is from Diane Geissler from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure if you've covered this but could you break down the drivers of the comp growth? Whether it was -- I think you talked about traffic being up but was there pricing in there as well? Yes Diane.
This is Pete.
Specifically in the U.S.
for the year we had about a 3% price increase spread throughout 3 different price increases that we took.
Europe if you exclude Russia which had pretty high inflation we averaged about a 2% increase throughout the year.
And in APMEA across the various markets again various amounts and various timings we averaged about a 4% increase.
Our next question comes from Matt DiFrisco from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Pete if you can help us just understand.
In modeling out looking at the other income line I was under the impression that was maybe going to start to tail off.
But looking at the components of it I guess the equity line or income from equity investments looks like it's coming in a little stronger.
And 1Q obviously with the tail end of that having the disaster in Japan should we start looking for the other income line to be more reflective of what we saw in 2010 1Q rather than 1Q '11? And then sort of drawing into that as well while we're over in APMEA looking at your margins you mentioned a little something about the store growth starting to weigh -- the China growth starting to weigh on the margins over there.
Is that going -- but it might reverse.
I was wondering can you give us some color on why that would reverse? Or what are going to be the key drivers of that even though growth is going to be relatively strong still? All right Matt.
Other op is really a -- there are a lot of items impacting that.
But you specifically talked about equity and earnings.
A couple things this year obviously we had the stronger yen.
So our -- that's an as-reported number that we put in there.
So we were getting some FX benefit from the stronger yen.
Yes in the first quarter I would expect our performance in Japan will be better than first quarter last year.
But remember the tsunami hit in March.
So we had 2 pretty good months of performance already in Japan before that hit.
So in total in that line I don't think it's dramatically different trend-wise.
Regarding China I didn't say it was going to reverse.
What I said was that that impact is temporary.
And so what I'm getting to there is we had a large jump in non-comp stores this year relative to last year as we accelerated the new store openings.
And yes we're going to continue to increase new store openings.
But as we do that the comp store base is larger.
So the impact of accelerated new stores on the total base will become less and at the same time those new stores should be coming on at higher volumes as the market averages grow.
And therefore the new-store impact should be moderating as well.
So hopefully that clarifies that comment.
Our next question is from Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification on Europe and then a separate question.
Just specific to Europe you mentioned not seeing any change in mix despite the austerity measures.
And correct me if I'm wrong but I believe that was similar to the message you sent related to the U.S.
over the past couple of years.
Just wondering when you think about Europe do you think of it similar to the U.S.
in terms of consumer behavior and use of the quick service offering? Or perhaps is the European offering more premium? And therefore would there be any particular regions that are more or less susceptible you would think to the ongoing austerity measures? And then just as the aside on the balance sheet you obviously mentioned a strong financial positioning.
I didn't know if there was any update on whether there's room for a leverage opportunity while maintaining your rating and returning more cash to the shareholders.
Jeff this is Don.
I'll take the first part of that on mix due to austerity and then I'm sure Pete will take the next one on leverage.
The challenge with Europe is there's not one -- as you all know there's not one country called Europe.
So it's very different across the various markets.
And let me give you perspective.
Spain's at 22% unemployment.
Have we seen a shift in terms of P mix [ph] into Spain to more value-based products? Yes we have.
But what Europe's done a really great job of is also adding in the premium-level products.
So we still get some balance so that we're not tremendously eroding margins.
If you go to some other markets better yet the upcoming year with Portugal Pete talked about some of the VAT increases.
We expect we'll see the ability to have a stronger value presence as well as a mid-tier presence in a market like Portugal.
On other extremes a market like France France has been able -- and Germany have been able to implement some premium-based sandwiches.
And although the German consumer is a little tighter relative to the expenditures products like -- and Jim talked about Hutengoutie [ph] big beef sandwiches.
Those things can sell a little bit better in those type of markets.
The U.K.
has movement across all price tiers.
So when we talk about whether or not the mix will be affected due to austerity I think there's 2 different things.
One is what we do in those markets relative to our marketing messages and our value offerings that helps us to modify our mix just a little bit.
The other thing is Europe has done a great job on the premium-based products.
And so the 2 of those things have helped us to manage through margin pressures a bit.
But in a broader sense it's helped us in terms of generating income.
And regarding leverage Jeff as we have the last couple years our assumption for 2012 is that we will increase debt -- our debt levels.
And our interest rate assumptions for 2012 assume a couple of different scenarios: one a more modest increase in debt and one a little higher increase based on the range of business performance we see.
And as you point out all within the context of staying within the credit metrics and the credit ratings that we enjoy today.
And our next question is from John Glass from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Pete while I know you don't talk about earnings growth targets specifically it seems that at the enterprise level in 2012 there are number of items that in aggregate may create some drag.
Those include the investment spending in SG&amp;A higher interest expense.
We've got a higher tax rate now.
It seems like it's hitting a new sort of higher level.
Then of course we've got things like foreign exchange and commodities which are at least at U.S.
-- levels in the U.S.
experienced in '11.
So I guess 2 questions for you.
One do you agree with that that there may be a depressed level of earnings growth in '12 versus '11 given all -- the confluence of all those factors? Are there any offsets that you see that we're not seeing right now so that maybe that's an incorrect assumption? And maybe can you also just talk about which of those features that I talked about are permanent? In other words do you expect G&amp;A spending beyond '12 to remain at these levels? Do you expect the tax rate beyond '12 to also remain at these levels? Well John one of the things we said at the investor conference was that despite these items that you mentioned that we expect our earnings to be consistent with our long-term targets.
And that's one of the things we've committed to and something we feel pretty confident about.
The G&amp;A we indicated an incremental $100 million for the technology the convention the Olympics.
And that kind of magnitude of growth growth of that magnitude we do not expect to continue.
Currency is one of those things that we look at over time as being neutral.
You're going to have positive years and negative years.
That's why we like to look at our business x currency for our internal reporting.
But obviously it does impact our reported EPS.
And the tax rate I'm not sure that we've necessarily set a new high but it's something we obviously continue to look at around the world how we can minimize our tax rate.
You may recall 2 years ago they took away a tax credit -- foreign tax credit that was providing a little more than 200 basis points of improvement to our rate.
And we've been looking at opportunities to get some of that back and I'm confident we'll be able to.
John this is Don.
Just I think we have to keep in mind as well we drove a lot of demand.
60-plus percent of our growth was due to increased demand in the restaurants.
So while we talk about some of the limiting factors associated with cost or taxation the thing that we continue to strive for is to make sure we continue to bring in additional customers into the restaurants.
So when you see at U.S.
with great guest count movement and sales when you see Europe and Asia/Pacific Middle East Africa China even our Latin American markets with the high inflationary environments that they're in continuing the growth guest counts -- as long as we can continue to do that and appeal with compelling offers the top line portion of that -- and manage the margins effectively we'll still be able to drive this business forward.
And that's what we've been doing for the last several years.
Our next question is from Larry Miller RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim I think you mentioned one of the plans for the U.S.
is to build capacity.
And clearly new POS is part of that.
I'm not sure if there's other operational initiatives out there.
But I was just wondering if you were -- or Don can talk about the order of magnitude of that opportunity.
I guess it's around speed of service.
Well I wouldn't tell you exactly what the magnitude is.
It varies by marketplace and by restaurant of course.
I think the important thing to understand is that increasing capacity particularly during peak hours in our restaurants is critical for us to be able to continue to grow guest counts and grow the top line.
And we've done a number of things to facilitate that.
You talked about the POS.
We talked about multiple ordering points.
But scheduling planning and positioning the blocking and tackling in the restaurant with an attitude of serving more customers during those peak hours is probably the most important thing.
It's not rocket science.
It takes the managers and crew being positioned properly having enough staff there to take care of the demand that Don talked about.
And it's been a mission at McDonald's the 40 years that I've been here to continue to do that better and better every year and every day.
And so when you see us go from 64 million customers a day to 68 million customers a day that throughput is coming from facilitation that I've just mentioned.
And we're very excited about the number of things that we're able to bring to the party.
But it's not all technology.
A lot of it is simple things like proper scheduling positioning and then planning for your shift planning for that time period from 11 to 1 for example to be able to facilitate faster service and fast service begets more customers.
Our next question is from Sara Senatore from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> You've talked a lot about some of the menu initiatives.
I want to go back to a comment you made about breakfast basically just talking about what you can do in the stores as a comp driver.
So could you either anecdotally or maybe more systematically talk about some of the things like the opportunity for in Europe in particular drive-thru late-night 24 hours.
And then maybe in the U.S.
and also in Europe as you approach some of these fairly high rates of reimaging -- so 90% of interiors in Europe.
You've accelerated in the U.S.
-- how should we think about that? Is that a diminished benefit to comps? Because if you were -- reimages as a percentage of the store base? Or is it enhanced because of the kind of the critical mass that you always talked about? Sara I'll try to take a cut at several things in there.
Real quick on the U.S.
relative to reimaging I mean if you really think about it we're just getting started.
We were able to do a couple of hundred in 2010 and then 900-plus in 2011.
We have a lot of opportunities still left.
And the returns that we're seeing as we've talked about to you guys have been very strong.
Relative to some of those other things -- and I just call it multiple drivers.
So in Europe drive-thru.
So 63% of the restaurants that have drive-thrus about 46% of sales in those restaurants.
That's only 30%.
When you look at that relative to a U.S.
business that is in the upper 60 percentiles overall we have a lot of room to go.
And a lot of it has to do with what Jim just mentioned which is staffing scheduling positioning as well as the physical plans that we have.
So we're doing more dual-lane drive-thru more handheld order taker kiosk opportunities in France and other areas.
So those kinds of things in Europe.
Breakfast if you look at Europe in terms of the number of restaurants that we have serving breakfast we have a long way to go.
APMEA is probably moving forward in that direction a little quicker.
We got about 70-plus percent of our restaurants that serve breakfast in APMEA -- across APMEA.
But you've got certain markets that have really made a big jump.
Malaysia as an example China.
So we have good focus in Japan now on breakfast.
So I think when you look across the board those kinds of things will be big as well as you mentioned it again extended hours.
So we'll keep focusing on all of those opportunities.
We have a lot of headroom left around the world in those areas.
Next question is from John Ivankoe from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Actually the question is on franchise margins.
And I guess maybe we could focus on U.S.
and Europe.
Is there anything that structurally prevents those margins from continuing to rise? And I ask that in terms of presumably when you -- remodels are costs that get reflected into -- in the franchise margins as a cost but there might be other things such as franchisee renewals and even from your perspective renewal of the underlying lease that the franchisees occupy.
So there's a few different moving pieces that might be within that.
But I guess Pete just hoping that you could comment on whether franchise margins can continue to expand with sales which would be I guess the simplest way to think about that.
Yes John.
Yes is the short answer.
You did mention a couple of things on the cost side that do impact it.
So some higher depreciation if we're reimaging potentially some higher underlying occupancy costs if we have a lease site and the rent is going up.
But because a great majority of those franchise expenses are fixed we get tremendous leverage by growing comps.
And so if we continue to grow comps the way we expect we will we believe franchise margins can continue to expand.
Our next question comes from Keith Siegner from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Another question about Europe actually and more from the perspective of an opportunity.
The Olympics this summer being in London this the first time in a long time they're being hosted in a truly major market for McDonald's and definitely since the brand -- I mean both food and box have been so relevant and resonating so clearly.
I mean how big an opportunity is that this summer? And how do you approach that this opportunity? Does it influence the timing and the approach of the marketing? I know you probably don't want to get into specifics but is there anything you could talk about how this Olympics might be different than some of the others in the past? Well Keith this is Jim Skinner.
I heard your comment on this yesterday on CNBC by the way and thanks for the positive plug.
But yes it's an enormous opportunity for us.
There's not a lot different about it except to say that it's sort of in the proper time zone if you will being in London and being in Europe.
And so that you get viewing audiences from the U.S.
and from all across Europe.
And so that's good for us.
Our success with the Olympics is always about the implementation of our efforts on the ground through all of this.
We have all of our programs in place today to take advantage of opportunities for our crew people and the local communities to participate with the athletes in many cases and being associated with the Olympics and the Paralympics.
We also of course are going to have 4 restaurants right there on site.
We always do a great deal of business and have the brand front and center regarding that.
And of course the overall integration of these planning processes across the United States and around the rest of the world in conjunction with the Olympics is really the linchpin to the success of a particular Olympic event.
And we're very optimistic about the plans that we have in place to do that.
I'm hearing a lot of good news out of London and the team there is doing a tremendous job preparing themselves for execution around this Olympics.
And we expect great success.
And as you know we've signed just signed up through 2020 now.
Don Thompson was just in Austria to execute that agreement.
And we're excited about the association with the Olympics well into the future.
Next question comes from Phillip Juhan from BMO Capital.
Just thinking we'll get the food cost margin in the fourth quarter I know you guys have guided for 4.5% to 5% food cost inflation.
And it looks like perhaps based on our calculations that food cost that food basket inflated at a slightly higher rate in the top end of that range.
If that indeed was the case can you discuss some of the more meaningful variances to plan? Phillip for the U.S.
we finished the year at 4.9%.
So almost right in the middle of that 4.5% to 5.5%.
And as we talked a lot throughout the year beef was probably the biggest variable for us.
Traditionally you would see some of the beef prices come down after the summer months and we didn't see that traditional decline in beef prices.
So we have frankly ended the year with beef costs up in the mid-teens.
And as we look at our guidance for 2012 we've built another mid-teens increase for beef expecting that the dynamics in the marketplaces that we see and are expecting will continue.
And our last question now is from Andy Barish from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was actually right along the same lines in terms of a little bit more color on the U.S.
commodity basket and Pete you provided a little bit of that.
Maybe then just dovetailing into that does that impact anything you guys are anticipating doing on a promotional product basis this year? We obviously saw a lot of chicken last year.
Does that continue to be an emphasis? And where do you think chicken prices will be for 2012? Andy I'll talk a little bit about the pricing and Don can talk about some of the promotional activity.
But we don't want to get into individual components.
Beef was the most significant so I call it out.
Chicken is much more manageable in terms of the price increase that we expect in 2012.
And the only other thing I'll say about the commodities is different from prior years more of the hedges this year were done using option contracts which allow us to participate in some of the downside.
So as you know for the price of chicken around 40% of the cost is the cost of the feed.
So hedging the grains is a big piece of controlling those chicken costs.
And with using some of these option contracts there is a potential if the grain markets decline that we'd come in a little more favorably than we expect on that.
But certainly the numbers we've given you assume the contract prices and assume as I mentioned that mid-teens increase in beef.
Andy and relative to the promotional calendars we try to take into account some of the commodity movements.
But sometimes they're so volatile that by the time you plan something out which is typically at least 8 to 12 months ahead of the time that you all see it on the calendar we don't have the level of flexibility.
But the reason that we do McRibs when we do McRib and we look at some of the chicken-based products when we look at us some of the chicken-based products is part of our attempt to look at when those commodities are at their high points and make sure that we stay away from those time frames.
But in a volatile economy and volatile commodity marketplace that's a little difficult.
So what we try to do is make sure that even with the range of price change that the food cost itself won't prevent us from being able to sell these products and have some decent margin at a restaurant level.
All right.
That concludes our Q&amp;A so I'll turn it over to Jim who has a few closing comments.
Thank you Kathy.
Thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
In closing I want to reemphasize the fundamental strength of our global business.
Looking ahead we remain optimistic that we can continue to drive results in any environment.
We'll execute our proven customer-focused Plan to Win while strategically managing through the market forces around us.
With our entire system aligned and committed to the success of the brand I'm confident we'll keep delighting our customers and achieving our revenue income and return goals.
Thanks to all of you and have a great day.
Hello and welcome to McDonald's April 20 2012 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
With me on the call are Chief Executive Officer Jim Skinner; Chief Operating Officer Don Thompson; and Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via phone webcast and podcast.
And before I turn it over to Jim I want to remind everyone that as always the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available on our website www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are any reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
So now I'd like to turn it over to Jim.
Jim? Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
As you know I recently announced my retirement after 41 years with McDonald's and almost 8 years as CEO.
The time was right for me to make this decision as our business continues to be very strong.
For the quarter comparable sales were up 7.3%; operating income increased 9% in constant currencies; and EPS reached $1.23 an 8% increase in constant currencies.
Our system is aligned and focused and we have an outstanding leader in Don to step in and continue our momentum.
I'm extremely confident in Don and his leadership team and I know the business is in very capable hands.
I also know that our system of outstanding operators suppliers and employees will continue working together to drive our results.
And let me say it's been a pleasure working with all of you in the investment community over these years.
I appreciate your continued engagement and your interest our business as well as your thoughtfulness when you put together your viewpoints and your assessment of McDonald's.
I wish you all well.
And with that I'll turn it over to Don to discuss the quarter's results around the world.
Thanks Jim.
And thank you for your tremendous leadership and all you've done for McDonald's.
You're a terrific partner a mentor and you'll definitely be missed.
Well good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to share McDonald's latest quarterly results which reflect the strength of our business.
Our continued momentum remains a system-wide effort with positive trends continuing in every area of the world.
In the U.S.
comparable sales increased 8.9% for the quarter and operating income rose 10%.
Europe's comparable sales were up 5% and operating income grew 8% in constant currencies.
And in Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa or what we call APMEA comp sales grew 5.5% and operating income was up 7% in constant currencies.
Our momentum is continuing into April with global comparable sales growth expected to be about 4%.
We are pleased with these results particularly given the headwinds we've faced on both the top and bottom lines and the fact that we'll continue to face these headwinds throughout the rest of the year.
The economic climate remains challenging with varying degrees of consumer confidence economic pressures and inflationary costs.
And our success in this volatile environment is a testament to our Plan to Win and our relentless focus on customers' needs.
Around the world we continue to gain market share in an industry with minimal to negative growth.
We also remain committed to our proven plan and to executing against our 3 global priorities which are optimizing our menu modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to brand McDonald's.
In the U.S.
our strong sales were the result of a focus on our core and new products as well as value and convenience.
The mild winter weather also benefited sales and traffic but to a lesser extent.
This momentum helped offset some of the headwinds and margin challenges we're facing due to pressures like commodities that we've mentioned before.
We continued to meet our customers' desire for a great breakfast during the quarter by advertising our increasingly popular wholesome choices menu which includes a great selection of items with no more than 300 calories each like our oatmeal the Egg McMuffin and Fruit 'N Yogurt Parfait.
We also featured our iconic Big Mac which lifted sales of both Big Macs and Mac Snack Wraps.
In January the U.S.
launched Chicken McBites a bite-sized chicken offering.
McBites contributed to the growth of the overall chicken sales by providing a tasty solution that is shareable and a great snack.
We often say that the power of our system lies in our ability to learn from each other then share then scale ideas and McBites is a great example of that.
The product originated in Australia and its positioning as a promotional food event came out of Europe.
This approach significantly reduces time-to-market compared with developing a product from scratch.
You can expect to see us share even more menu ideas given the strong global pipeline that we can tap into.
The U.S.
also continues to strengthen its position as a beverage destination with total beverage units up 6% over last year.
And in the weeks ahead we'll be enhancing our McCafé blended ice lineup with a new Cherry Berry Chiller.
It's a refreshing new drink made with 100% juice.
Meanwhile the U.S.
continues to broaden accessibility by evolving its value proposition with the new Extra Value Menu.
This menu builds on the iconic Dollar Menu by offering a great selection of products at various value price points from Snack Wraps under $2 to 20-piece McNuggets at $4.99.
We're also focused on maximizing restaurant throughput and capacity.
More than 1/3 of all restaurants are leveraging a form of multiple order points including tandem or side-by-side drive-thrus along with nearly 1 200 handheld order takers.
Now let's turn to Europe a region that continues to experience unprecedented economic challenges from widespread austerity measures concerns over the sovereign debt crisis and unemployment levels averaging about 10%.
Our business has held strong despite the impact of the environment and what it's having on consumers' purchasing power.
We remain focused however on upgrading the overall experience and are continuously looking to provide even greater value across our menu.
From entry-level to core and premium products we have to provide value to ensure we remain relevant in this environment.
In the area of menu Europe has led the way with limited-time offers that we call promotional food events.
This quarter France featured 2 premium beef sandwiches the McFarmer and McTimber which resonated with customers.
In the U.K.
strong promotions around the Big Tasty beef sandwich and our 20-piece McNuggets ShareBox exceeded our expectations as did Germany's re-hit of the 1955 burger.
Considering the ongoing pressures on consumers and our focus on maintaining and growing guest counts we've stepped up our emphasis on branded affordability.
Germany's newly evolved value menu contributed to sales during the quarter which helped offset increased competitive value offers.
In the U.K.
sales from the Saver Menu grew double-digits versus the prior year.
And France is also evaluating options to further strengthen value perceptions at a time when a number of new austerity measures are impacting consumers' confidence and their disposable income.
Europe continues to lead the systems reimaging efforts.
80% of our interiors and 50% of our exteriors have been refreshed elevating perceptions of the McDonald's brand and strengthening appeal with today's consumers.
And we continue to broaden our accessibility through the rollout of the new point-of-sale system across Europe and the expansion of McCafés.
Approximately 150 more will be added this year.
As we said before our holistic approach to the business and attention to evolving consumer needs serves us well in these times of austerity and economic uncertainty and for the long-term growth of the region.
Now over to APMEA where we're also seeing challenging economic conditions with slow growth in China and ongoing tightening in Australia.
We're managing through the environment with a focus on compelling menu offerings strong value and convenience.
Australia is focused on branded affordability particularly the Value Lunch program has been key to its solid gains in this quarter.
In March we launched the Loose Change menu.
This menu features 7 items ranging from a soft-serve ice cream cone at AUD $0.30 to a Double Cheeseburger at AUD $2.
And early results are encouraging.
We also had some new food news in the market with the introduction of our new Spicy Chicken McBites smoothies and frappés.
Australia is the first market in APMEA to launch these blended ice drinks and as we've seen elsewhere these products are a hit selling above our expectations.
Japan's results remain uneven as the recovery from last year's devastating events continues and consumers are eating at home more often.
Strong support of our core products compelling limited-time offers and a focus on breakfast have contributed to hard-sought market share gains in a retracting industry.
Our Big Mac promotion helped boost sales and lift average check and a focus on our Premium Roast Coffee and popular menu items like the Sausage McMuffin and hotcakes during the morning hours have ensured that breakfast remains a strong contributor to Japan's results.
We expect short-term volatility will continue but remain optimistic about Japan for the long term.
And while China's economy is still expected to grow at about 8% in 2012 this is a slowdown from last year's growth of just over 9% with much of this attributed to a reduction in exports.
McDonald's China delivered first quarter comparable sales of 8.5%.
We remain committed to offering great value and local menu favorites to continue to drive our results.
Our Value Lunch is a staple in the minds of Chinese consumers and the addition of the chicken burger has helped keep the momentum going driving lunchtime comp sales by double-digits.
We will also be launching a value dinner program in the coming months.
Value is also delivering results at breakfast and helped grow comparable sales by over 20% for this important daypart.
Beyond breakfast we ran a series of successful menu promotions around Chinese New Year that provided a lift in overall sales and traffic.
APMEA remains a region of tremendous growth and opportunity.
We remain excited about our future potential in this growing region as we build on our menu and value and extend the convenience of our brand through drive-thru delivery kiosks and extended hours as well as new restaurant development.
All in all we continue to strengthen our business and build on our success in a strategic and a comprehensive way.
We're equally committed to maintaining a strong financial foundation and maximizing value for our system and for our shareholders.
These are the hallmarks of how we have and will continue to manage our business.
Our long-term average annual targets remain intact with sales growth of 3% to 5% operating income growth of 6% to 7% and return on incrementally invested capital in the high-teens.
Our intent remains to return all of our cash flow after reinvesting in the business to investors through a combination of dividends and share repurchases over the long term.
In fact we returned $1.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases this quarter.
Overall I'm pleased with our latest quarterly results.
However I also know there's much more work to be done.
With a fragile global economy and numerous pressures to contend with we're staying focused on those things within our control.
We remain committed to executing our Plan to Win and delivering an exceptional experience for our nearly 68 million customers per day.
Next week we will be with Owner/Operators from around the world at our biennial convention.
This meeting provides a great opportunity to share ideas and also solidify plans for today and for the future.
The fundamentals of our business are strong our system is aligned and I am confident that together we will deliver continued growth.
Thank you and now I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
We start 2012 where we left off in 2011 with strong sales momentum and market share growth around the world.
We are guided by the Plan to Win and our 3 global priorities: optimizing the menu modernizing the experience and broadening accessibility.
We continue to approach our business holistically and see many opportunities ahead even as we manage through a volatile and inflationary environment.
Our strong performance and balance sheet enables investments in key system initiatives to help sustain our momentum over the long term.
As we outlined at our investor meeting last November we are willing and able to invest for continued growth and to widen our competitive advantages recognizing that in the short term these investments along with other near-term headwinds will impact our 2012 operating income growth.
We believe our strategies and focused execution are right for the business and will create significant shareholder value over the coming years.
We are pleased with the first quarter results which were led by a 10% constant currency increase in system-wide sales amidst a challenging economic landscape.
Combined operating margin rose 10 basis points to 30% due to strong comparable sales mostly offset by higher costs.
The largest component of operating income is our franchise margin representing nearly 70% of total restaurant margin dollars.
Franchise margin dollars rose $135 million to over $1.7 billion a 10% constant currency increase with every area of the world contributing.
Consolidated franchise margin percent rose 40 basis points to 82.3% as positive comparable sales more than offset higher costs.
Please note there was a change in classification of certain franchising costs in Australia beginning in first quarter.
This negatively affected APMEA's franchise margin percent by about 40 basis points but had no impact on overall margin dollars.
This change in classification will have a similar impact on APMEA's franchise margin percent for the balance of the year.
Global company operated margin dollars grew $42 million to $778 million for the quarter while the percent decreased 20 basis points to 17.5%.
Rising commodity labor and occupancy costs particularly in the U.S.
offset strong comparable sales.
In the U.S.
company operated margins declined 70 basis points to 18.8% primarily due to higher commodity costs.
First quarter commodity costs in the U.S.
rose 7% primarily driven by increases in beef.
We expect to experience similar pressure in the second quarter and then easing a bit in the second half of the year.
The full year outlook for the increase in our U.S.
grocery basket remains at 4.5% to 5.5%.
The cost increases were partly offset by strong guest count growth and a nearly 1% price increase in February.
Combined with last year's price increases the U.S.
business is running about a 3% price increase versus a year ago.
While we typically keep price increases similar to or slightly below food-away-from-home inflation index we also keep a close eye on food-at-home inflation which has been rising faster than food-away-from-home.
We remain mindful of balancing future price increases with our desire to maintain growth in guest counts and market share.
In addition in first quarter we invested in local value promotions to drive sales.
We also invested in labor to build capacity primarily during peak hours.
This contributed to a significant improvement in guest count growth for the quarter during the critical noon to 1 p.m.
hour.
Providing compelling value throughout our menu and increasing peak hour capacity are critical components to our long-term growth.
In first quarter these initiatives impacted our ability to realize greater margin leverage despite strong comp sales.
All of these headwinds are expected to continue as we anticipate similar U.S.
company operated margin percent declines at least through the second quarter.
Turning to Europe.
Company operated margins increased 30 basis points to 17.5% as solid comparable sales more than offset higher commodity labor and occupancy costs.
Very strong comparable sales increases in Russia and the U.K.
our 2 largest McOpCo markets in Europe drove the margin expansion.
Europe's grocery bill was up about 5% in the quarter.
We expect a little less of an increase in second quarter with the full year increase still projected at 2.5% to 3.5%.
Though Europe is facing less overall commodity inflation compared to the U.S.
the impact of austerity measures is weighing on both our top and bottom lines.
Across Europe the average price increase for the trailing 12 months excluding Russia is about 2% to 3%.
We do not currently have as much pricing power in Europe and in key markets such as France and Germany where we are evolving our value offerings and messaging to address growing consumer needs.
The combination of all these factors is expected to pressure company operated margins over the next few quarters.
In Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa company operated margins declined 60 basis points to 16.9% as strong comparable sales were offset by higher commodity labor and occupancy costs.
In addition the new restaurant openings in China contributed to the lower margin percent.
While China's new restaurants pressure margins early on within a few years of opening most restaurants generate operating margins that approach the market's average.
G&amp;A for the quarter increased 6% in constant currencies.
We expect the next 2 quarters will experience more significant increases due to our Worldwide Convention in April the Summer Olympics starting in late July and the ongoing technology enhancements.
With the favorable interest rate environment and our strong credit rating we are taking advantage of our ability to issue debt at low rates but we are not changing our philosophy toward our balance sheet.
The change in our interest expense outlook is being driven by stronger foreign currencies versus 3 months ago not an increase in anticipated borrowings for the year.
The first quarter effective tax rate of 31.4% represented a significant increase versus the prior year rate of 28.8% which was aided by a nonrecurring deferred tax benefit related to our foreign operations.
We continue to project the full year rate to be between 31% and 33%.
We are confident that the investments being made today will build customer loyalty drive returns and enhance shareholder value over the long term.
We're operating from a position of strength and seizing the opportunity to modernize our brand while leveraging our size and scale in a way that others simply cannot match.
Our franchisees remained aligned with our strategies and have the capacity and willingness to invest.
For example the average traditional restaurant in the U.S.
now generates over $2.5 million in annual sales and $340 000 in pre-debt cash flow.
Just 5 years ago our average volume and cash flow per restaurant were about $2.1 million and $290 000 respectively.
The strong financial foundation of our operators around the world allows them to invest in key strategic initiatives like reimaging.
We are on track to reimage at least 2 400 restaurants this year including 800 in the U.S.
900 in Europe and 475 in APMEA.
Through first quarter we've completed about 350 reimages globally.
In addition we will complete over 200 rebuilds in the U.S.
this year.
And opening new units also remains a focus because we see significant opportunity to strategically extend our brand.
In 2012 we expect to open more than 1 300 new restaurants including 450 in Latin America Japan and other markets where we invest no capital.
Lastly let me touch on foreign currency translation which negatively impacted first quarter results by $0.01.
At current rates we expect second and third quarter EPS to each be negatively impacted by $0.05 to $0.07 with the full year negative impact ranging from $0.12 to $0.14.
As usual this is directional guidance only because I know rates will change as we move throughout the year.
We remain committed to making the right long-term decisions for the system and our shareholders.
Our momentum is strong and we are pleased with first quarter results given the environment.
We remain focused on widening our competitive advantages over the coming years.
Even with the headwinds in 2012 I'm confident that we can meet our financial targets this year and continue to build significant shareholder value.
Thank you.
Now I'll turn it over to Kathy to begin our Q&amp;A.
Thanks Pete.
We're ready to open the call for analyst and investor questions.
[Operator Instructions] So we are ready to begin our Q&amp;A.
And we'll start with David Palmer from UBS.
Research Division</strong> And just in case Jim Skinner is not going to be on the second quarter call just wanted to say thank you and congratulations for a great career.
Taco Bell Burger King those are a couple of big competitors in the U.S.
that are making a big sales go-at-it here heading into the second quarter.
I don't normally think about the smaller competitors having a much of an impact on McDonald's but do you think that that could be something of a competitive encroachment in the second quarter that we should be thinking about? And secondly just out of Europe can you give us a sense of the type of marketing changes you may be already making in places like France and Germany that more value-oriented marketing that you discussed? David thanks for your comments.
And the question regarding the United States I'll take and Don can add some texture if he likes and he can talk about the marketing in Europe which we are managing effectively as Pete mentioned in his comments and Don also mentioned.
But United States of course Burger King and Taco Bell and all of our other competitors we keep a close eye on in terms of what their activities are like.
But it's not our first rodeo regarding this.
And they have spurts of enthusiasm and excitement for their brand typically when there's a change in ownership.
And so they are doing some things that are meaningful for their brand they believe.
And yet we think that it's business-as-usual for McDonald's relative to what we're focused on and our strategies have served us very very well.
When you look at optimizing the menu improving customer relevance as we've done and accessibility and to our Plan to Win we expect to be able to maintain our competitive differentiation there regarding those competitors.
And Don you want to talk a little bit about the marketing in Europe? Yes.
Relative to Europe David we have had -- we have ongoing conversations with all the markets not just those in Europe but relative to what's happening in a broader business environment and how we are faring.
One of the things that we've seen thus far is we continue to gain market share across Europe.
And so we know that despite some of the IEO growth or lack thereof we continue to appeal to consumers and customers across-the-board.
Now what we've done particularly in France and Germany is we have had some as you would imagine more aggressive conversations around how we position our value menus and value offerings.
In Germany they've done some things with their basic value menu which we call SMS.
They made some changes there as well as they the franchisees are considering other things that they might want to do to continue the momentum that we've had relative to market share gains.
However I will say consumer confidence is still one of the things we monitor across Europe inclusive of Germany and France.
In France we have a great opportunity to better leverage our P'tits Plaisirs platform.
So you can probably imagine that we will continue to do that as well as look for other opportunities to continue to move forward the menu and provide good price value.
So those are some of the things we're doing there.
Just one touch point and Jim mentioned several things and he's kept us very focused as you all can imagine on consistency in terms of how we run the business.
So when you mentioned some of the competitors in the U.S.
also we continue to watch our gain there as well.
In the U.S.
we're up 60 basis points in terms of market share which is really really strong growth.
And Jan Fields and her team are doing a great job there as well we continue to have a positive sales comp gap.
And so those things are things we also measure to ensure that we're doing the right thing for our customers.
Next question is from David Tarantino from R.W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Jim congratulations on your retirement and Don congratulations on your new role.
My question really is a follow-up related to the Europe business.
You saw a nice recovery in the comp trend in March.
And I just wanted to understand the underlying dynamics there in the various markets and if you think that maybe February was more of an anomaly related to weather and that the underlying trend is actually more consistent with what you saw in January and March.
And then I guess secondly have you already implemented some of these initiatives that you've talked about that may be helping the trend in March? Or are those something that you're planning going forward in anticipation of a tough economy? David thanks much.
And thanks for the recognition both of Jim and myself.
I'll tell you a couple of different things.
One is we have already begun some of the planning.
Some of these things were implemented before and we just have to change some of our marketing emphasis i.e.
in Germany relative to the value platform.
France already had P'tits Plaisirs.
However it does end up being a marketing GRP visibility and awareness play more so than anything else because we've got the tools and the arsenal already which is good.
We can just lever them up.
Now here's the other thing I would say relative to Europe and you asked about do we think it will continue.
Europe the first quarter had a lot of different pieces in it.
Clearly we had the 200-year weather cycle which was a negative impact.
We have the positive impact of things like bank holidays.
We have a lot of moving parts.
However we know that the underlying thing that we have to do is have good price value across-the-board while consumers are facing some confidence issues due to austerity measures and then some of the other things such as pension issues in the U.K.
and taxes and VAT increases across-the-board.
So we do have many plans already in place.
There are some new things we will put in place but the biggest part is just how we shift our marketing to enhance the value messaging and awareness.
Next question is from Jason West Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask on China.
You alluded to some modest slowdown there.
If you could talk a bit about is that more regional? I believe during the last recession you saw more impact in the export-driven markets if you're seeing sort of a regional impact this time as well.
And sort of if you could talk daypart-wise and if there's been any impact from some of the PR issues there recently.
Jason it's Pete.
The China business has continued to perform pretty well for us.
You know that March was a little slower than the 2-month trend had been January and February.
But there's no specific region or particular issue to point to.
One of the things -- we had a big beef promotion this March relative to a big chicken promotion last March so that had a little bit of a negative impact.
We did see a little regionalized slowdown after some of the negative publicity you alluded to but that wasn't terribly significant.
So we remain on track there and are comfortable with where we're going.
The next question is Andy Barish from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just finishing up maybe the European discussion on the -- your thoughts just as it pertains to the margin impact with a little bit more focus on promotion or value going forward.
Europe delivered good margins here in the first quarter with Russia and the U.K.
as you mentioned.
But any subtle shifts kind of as you focus a little bit more on value going forward? I think margins as you know Andy are a top line game and this is all about generating more traffic through the leveraging of our everyday affordability which Don had mentioned in terms of getting ourselves in the appropriate position and putting the muscle behind it in marketing particularly in Germany and France.
And we think that that will be beneficial as the traffic increases and the top line grows into the future.
And so we don't really look at that as having a significant impact on margins relative to anything we do on everyday affordability.
Yes.
Andy as you pointed out it really is kind of a tale of 2 Europes if you will with Russia having some high-teen comps and the U.K.
around 10%.
They really drove some pretty good margin performance here in the first quarter.
As we head to second quarter we obviously we won't have the leap day benefit.
Generally in the markets that Jim talked about while we'll enhance our messaging around the local value or the everyday affordability that tendency is initially you'll see a little dip in the average check.
But as the transactions grow you get that back over time.
And in those markets with that environment we also probably have a little less pricing power as last year's increases roll off and we'll probably be able to take a little bit less this year.
Net-net those are the pressures I alluded to when I mentioned that in my comments.
Next question is Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a two-part question.
First just as it relates to -- Pete you mentioned the food-at-home versus food-away-from-home discussion.
And I know the gap has been fairly wide which gave you guys some comfort or confidence on perhaps being more aggressive on price.
But it seems like recently the gap has narrowed.
And as commodity inflation is going to ease as we move through the year I'm just wondering one how you think about further price increases beyond the 3% in the U.S.
today.
And then just as a separate add-on to Pete's comments earlier I know you said -- when you think about 2012 that you're investing for continued growth and how that's going to pressure the operating income and you also kind of talked about being somewhat cautious on U.S.
and European margins the next couple of quarters.
So I was just hoping you could frame up the directional thought for 2012.
I think you still sounded fairly confident that you can hit your 6% to 7% operating income.
I guess that's kind of your long-term.
So I'm just wondering if you can give some directional color with all those pressures you alluded to and confidence still hitting that target.
Sure.
First on the pricing in the U.S.
Jeff.
You kind of -- you hit on the head as over the last several months there's been a wider gap on the food-at-home being growing greater than the food-away-from-home.
That gap is starting to narrow.
And in fact the outlook food-away-from-home is still projected to grow at 2% to 3% this year.
But food-away-from-home is now projected to grow 2.5% to 3.5%.
That's down a little bit from the last projection.
So that gap is narrowing.
And as you think traditionally about our parameters that 2% to 3% for food-away-from-home absent any significant gap with the food-at-home is probably a good way to think about our pricing for the year.
So that 2% to 3% is probably the constraints for that one.
Jeff the other part of this one too is we -- and Pete mentioned this.
We really look at food-away-from-home as our primary metric relative to how we establish our strategic pricing.
We look at food-at-home it's kind of -- because we can't price the food-at-home because it's too much more -- it's too volatile.
It swings up and down so much more aggressively.
So we look at food-away-from-home primarily.
But what food-at-home tells us is whether or not we may be seeing additional pressures relative to say a breakfast daypart.
And so that allows us to adjust some of our marketing and our value messaging appropriately.
Regarding the conversation on the longer-term targets Jeff very comfortable in the 6% to -- our long-term target 6% to 7% obviously the last few years we've been significantly ahead of that.
But as we outlined in November with some of the actions we're taking to invest and some of these near-term headwinds around commodities we're probably closer to that 6% to 7% this year than we've been the last few years and specifically these next couple of quarters.
So in the U.S.
I mentioned commodities will be up another close to 7% again in the second quarter and we won't have the benefit of leap year and the favorable weather.
So again margins look pretty similar in the second quarter for the U.S.
I mentioned the G&amp;A.
We haven't come off our 6% forecast for the year.
But with the timing of some of these events our internal plans are at double-digit G&amp;A growth for the next couple of quarters.
So as we look throughout the year again we're very confident in our ability to hit that long-term target.
But there's going to be -- the next couple of quarters may look a little down off of that relative to some of these items that I mentioned.
And our next question is from John Glass Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to maybe just go back to the U.S.
and talk about the new Extra Value Menu and what your intentions are here.
I know you've made some changes to the Dollar Menu as well.
So is the intention here to maybe migrate people off the Dollar Menu as a basis for just the meal and try to get more traction with sort of a value but at a higher price point? Maybe you can talk about if this menu has any implications from a margin standpoint.
And then Pete just I wanted to clarify your comments about the operating income growth 6% to 7%.
That's constant currencies correct? So as we look at next couple of quarters with currency pressure magnifying it's probably on a reported basis probably even less than that.
Correct John.
I'll clarify the operating income comments and then Don can talk about the Extra Value Menu.
But you're right.
That long-term guidance is in constant currency.
And with the $0.05 to $0.07 each of the next couple quarters of pressure obviously the reported number will be less than that.
And John relative to the new Extra Value Menu it fits within an overall price value strategy that we continue to move forward.
As we look at commodity pressures clearly we understand that there are certain aspects of the Dollar Menu that are tougher relative to cash flow and margin accretion.
So what we've looked to do with the new Extra Value Menu is to have some opportunity to bring some products down to a lower level price i.e.
the 20-piece McNugget which are really compelling and shareable offer to customers.
But at the same time we also know that this will highlight and emphasize products like the Snack Wraps which are accretive to building the margin.
So it's a combination of both longer-term we know that we want to keep the Dollar Menu intact.
However you may see some changes within the menu and some of those products may change just a little bit.
We'll rotate some new ones in possibly and some may rotate out.
But we're going to make sure we continue to have great value for customers across-the-board but you may see some changes in terms of the overall value menu strategies.
Our next question is from Matt DiFrisco from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations again Jim on a great tenure.
Just transitioning I guess to go a little bit further into Europe there.
I guess 2 of the countries -- you talked about France actually in this sales -- in this monthly sales release as being one of the stronger regions.
And then also looking at France and Portugal sort of those 2 countries that have seen the VAT increase I guess for restaurants as it's been reported this year would you -- could you give us some color on as far as what have you seen in trends early on in the year? Has the consumer reverted a little bit home with their food dollar? Or are you sort of having somewhat of a countercyclical benefit? And are people for lack of a better term I guess trading down to better value and coming into your restaurant that maybe in the past wouldn't have given the I guess it's about a 150 bps jump on the VAT in France? Matt I would say first of all relative to France I wouldn't say that France is one of the stronger performing areas today.
I think they're going through some serious consumer confidence issues and we're also seeing a lessened discretionary spending.
There's some concerns in the marketplace relative to austerity measures.
Having said that we continue to perform and continue to grow market share.
And that's the point.
And when the IEO is contracting or slowing down our focus becomes how we can continue to grow market share and maintain a larger base of customers.
And so we're going to continue to do that in France.
Portugal is a very interesting area relative to the 10% VAT increase they had there going from 13 to 23 percentile.
We have done a lot of work with our franchisees there to make sure that we maintain a great price value component in the overall strategy.
Now what that means in the short term is that in a small market like Portugal we may have some decreased margins.
But in the longer-term we'll secure the customer base and we'll build the business as we move forward so -- but things like that are happening whether it be Portugal.
It's happened in Hungary Romania before.
But these are smaller markets.
Our next question is from Mitch Speiser from Buckingham.
Okay.
We're going to move on then.
Joe Buckley from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jim I want to echo all the positive comments and wish you good luck.
Question on the noon to 1 p.m.
throughput comments and putting more labor into the stores.
Can you talk about if it's simply that or if there are other measures improving that throughput? And probably the same question talk about some of the technology investments that you referred to.
Is some of that directed at labor productivity and throughput? Yes it absolutely is Joe.
So there's a couple of things that are impacting that.
One is a focus on what we call scheduling staffing and positioning.
So how many people do we have on the floor during those peak hours and where are they positioned is very important to driving more transactions through the restaurant during those peak hours.
So do we have all of our kitchen equipment fully utilized? So both sides of our sandwich preparation table for example.
But also the new register system the new point-of-sale system as you point out is also an enabler because we're able to take orders more quickly and more accurately so we get the customer through the restaurant.
But that new POS also enables things like the handheld order taker and the side-by-side drive-thru which again gets more orders back into that kitchen during these peak hours which is another way to expand our capacity.
But those -- the new POS had already been in the U.S.
last year and so there was no incremental cost relative to that in this quarter.
But certainly with adding some additional labor under the staffing guidelines that's where we start to see a little impact on the labor line.
Net-net to grow I think we grew comp transactions 5% during that lunch hour in the first quarter.
And that was a significantly greater growth relative to that hour in the prior year.
So those investments are definitely paying off for us.
All right.
Our next question is from Sara Senatore Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I did want to ask about Europe and 2 follow-ups if I may.
One is Europe.
And that is can you kind of parallel what you see in Europe now that maybe what you saw in the U.S.
in 2009? Because I feel like in many ways we talked about the same -- not a lot of tolerance for rising prices and sort of it took a little while but eventually the cumulative effects of what we saw in the U.S.
in '08 kind of hit home in '09.
So is that sort of what we should anticipate for the year ahead in France and Germany may play out like we saw in the U.S.
in '09? And then on China can you just talk briefly you had -- breakfast grew 20% overall comps rate in the half.
Can you just tell us how much price you had on there and whether you saw relative softness in either of the other dayparts? Sarah this is Don.
A couple of things.
I think a very astute comment relative to Europe or France today versus the U.S.
a couple of years ago.
And actually I'd even go back to the 2008 time frame 2008 2009.
They are quite similar in that what we did then was we put much more emphasis on our value messaging from a marketing perspective.
We made the value offerings more prominent in the restaurant and that definitely helped us secure what I will call those customers who had decreased discretionary dollars and they continued to come into McDonald's.
And in Europe across-the-board we're doing the same thing now.
We've been doing it with the Eurosaver Menu in markets like the U.K.
We're doing it with SMS in Germany.
We're doing it with P'tits Plaisirs in France.
I do believe that what we're facing in France now because we've had -- we haven't had the same strong competitive set in France we've not had to go there as aggressively but now we're at a point where from a consumer confident perspective we are going there a lot stronger relative to that marketing power.
So I think it's a very very good comment.
They are somewhat similar.
The difference though I would say in Europe Europe we have a foundation particularly in markets like France of having the restaurants reimaged.
And so that definitely helps us and allows us also to continue to sell some more premium-based products.
Relative to China in terms of pricing that's something that normally we don't disclose but I think this -- in this case is important.
China we did a price increase of 5 percentile.
And we know that that is going to help us relative to moving forward to be able to help us with margin and also help us face some of the commodity-based pressures that we see there.
But with the -- your specific question Sara about the breakfast.
Breakfast is less than 20 -- is less than 10% of the business there.
So while the comps were really strong and obviously were strong at lunch where we saw a little lesser momentum was in our dessert kiosks and a little bit more of the discretionary visit potentially so the snacking kind of visit.
But again the balance of where the business is coming from in China is still pretty good.
And it's coming from where we're really focusing a lot of our attention so that's good.
And just to clarify that 5% number that Don gave that's our trailing 12-month impact of the price increases.
We didn't take all of that in this first quarter.
Our next question is from John Ivankoe from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow up on the U.S.
I mean you've talked about pricing.
But I mean what do you think about I guess a couple of things? Kind of excluding the benefit from remodels or reimages if it's possible to do that what kind of an industry traffic growth environment do you think we are in the U.S.
in other words as you kind of slowly improving employment and I guess consumer confidence offsetting higher gas prices to where we kind of are in a tailwind environment as opposed to a headwind environment? And secondly when we think about the overall menu obviously some changes to value and how you're positioning things and the potential introduction of premium-priced limited-time-only products are we kind of in your positive mix environment perhaps at least in '12 or I mean perhaps even in the next couple of years? So just trying to get you to kind of think about price mix and traffic in the U.S.
and what kind of environment that we have helping you or hurting you.
Yes John.
Jim Skinner.
Just make a couple of comments on that.
First of all the employment environment based on yesterday's number is actually getting a little worse instead of getting a little bit better in terms of jobless claims.
And it's been fairly flat.
We're at that 8% unemployment or better -- or worse I should say 8.3% whatever that number is.
And the consumer confidence has gone up some but I think that's just because people are sort of worn-out over the overall economic issues and how it's impacting them personally.
And so they're just in a place of normalcy now relative to this entire issue on the economy and savings and eating at home and eating away from home.
And that environment as you know has continued to operate about the same as it has been.
And so our philosophy around pricing and menu and Dollar Menu and all of those things that Don talked about earlier has remained the same.
We really haven't changed our strategy around that.
We always have to have everyday affordability the best in the business at McDonald's.
That's been our mantra really since 2002 and the advent of the Dollar Menu.
And then obviously the introduction of new menu items and snack items and what we call that fourth-tier area.
So there's really not been a change regarding that.
And the traffic has continued to be fairly robust in the U.S.
around that for our restaurants.
And we continued as you know to take share in the U.S.
against the competitive set.
The update we got just yesterday John from our folks in the U.S.
actually shows the -- actually a slight drop in the forecast for the year for the traffic for the industry.
It's projected to grow less than 1%.
And so that makes our traffic growth even that much more remarkable in that environment.
As it's starting to level off or decline a little bit we continue to see significant traffic gains in the U.S.
Our next question is from Keith Siegner from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question for either Pete or Don just kind of an update on the reimaging program.
I mean we've had some -- I ask because you've got a couple large competitors announce big programs.
It's been at least a year now since we had a real good update down in Tampa.
And we know you're never complacent.
So have you made any changes to the prototype? Is the cost of the remodel looking any different? Are the sales lifts looking any different? Just some general updates on that program because clearly it's very impactful and an important part of the outlook would be great.
Keith first of all the reimaging efforts are going quite well.
And I'll speak specifically about the U.S.
I think your question was more focused on the U.S.
We have upgraded the course.
And I think that that was something that we did early -- about the middle of the year last year.
And we've got tremendous acceleration.
In the latter part of the year we reimaged quite a few the predominance of our restaurants.
We're on track this year to continue to exceed the numbers that we have out there right now.
We think we're in that range of around 800 in terms of reimages in the U.S.
And we feel very comfortable and confident in that number.
What I've seen is that the sales and the group reported to Pete and I and Jim earlier this week the sales continue to be in the range toward the high end of the range relative to what we told you guys about in that 6 percentile range relative to reimages.
And the system itself is quite excited about it.
I think we're going to continue to see aggressiveness in the reimages relative to the competitive set.
We hear a lot of information from time to time about others that are reimaging.
I think the point for us is we have a proven track record of what reimaging can do how to do it how to maximize the opportunity and the sales from it and also how to make sure that we get the cost in the right line.
And so we're going to continue to do that not only in the U.S.
but as we complete the interiors in Europe and move further along with the exteriors and also as we move across APMEA and Latin America.
And one encouraging thing to add onto that Keith is now that we've got a history of stores that have more than 12 months of operation since reimaging we're actually seeing higher sales increases as they cross that anniversary.
And so they're actually closer to that 7% in our 6% to 7% range in their 13th 14th 15th month which is again very encouraging and supportive of our belief that this is a great long-term investment.
Okay.
Our next question is from Steve Marrs CitizensTrust.
In your press release you talked about APMEA growing first quarter sales by an increase of 5.5%.
Also in your remarks you talked about Japan being soft.
Now here is my question.
If you x out Japan what would have APMEA been for the quarter please? Steve we don't have that number at our fingertips.
So maybe offline the Investor Relations folks could give you that.
But obviously we talked about China.
We talked about Australia.
A lot of the other markets across APMEA are performing extremely well on the top line.
And at over 3 000 restaurants the number would be much higher.
But with us again that's not one that we kind of pull out when we factor sales.
Okay.
We have time for one last question Howard Penney from Hedgeye.
And I guess it's appropriate to ask Don about the legacy of Jim Skinner has obviously been well-documented.
He took over McDonald's after a difficult year.
It was his job to keep the Plan to Win moving along and take McDonald's to the next level with beverages.
And I understand you played a big part in that as well.
As we look out over the next couple of years what do you think your legacy will be when we're talking about your retirement? I know that's a little early but if we could talk about your legacy and where you're seeing McDonald's is and maybe how do you think you'll take McDonald's to the next level especially when we talk about the competition maybe reorganizing a little bit.
Howard first of all I hope that retirement point is quite a few years down the road.
Otherwise that might mean it was induced by something other than me.
Here's a point I think.
Jim has always been very strong in telling all of us and continuing to drive the point of what we have to do is focus on the basics.
I've been around McDonald's for over 20 years now and I think what's most important for everyone is to understand that a change in leadership doesn't mean a change in strategy.
I was here on the front end when we did the Plan to Win and I understand what it means to our organization in terms of alignment.
We remain focused on those things we've talked about: people product place price promotion.
One of the things that we've done over the last couple of years and Jim has been great about allowing myself and Pete and the rest of the team to really kind of take the mantle and lead some of the strategies that we have set forth.
When we talk about modernizing the customer experience technology will play a major role in that.
But even more so will be the new look of McDonald's and what that allows us to do with our menu set.
When we talk about optimizing the menu we will be more focused as we have been on nutritional-based products but also on focusing on our core and some premium products that we see coming out of areas like Europe.
One of the things that we have that's a big potential we can scale products and learn from the various areas of the world and we will do that at a more accelerated pace.
Lastly I would say that when we talk about the broadening accessibility we are much smarter now.
We can walk and chew gum at the same time.
We can deliver organic growth and we can build new restaurants.
We know we can.
We're doing it across APMEA and across many of our major markets.
So we'll continue to do that.
I don't worry about the legacy that will be left and I'm not trying to chase the tremendous things that Jim has led us to do.
I think myself and this team are focused on continuing to drive sustainable growth at McDonald's.
And that is the key Howard.
And I think if we can continue to focus on the basics of this business; execution in the restaurants every day; the moment of truth as Jim has called it at that front counter; focused on the fact that we do have the power and the financial strength to grow both in development and organically those are the things that I want to make sure we do.
So I'm not really focused on the legacy aspect as much as I am continuing to see all of us move the business and grow as a global company.
Okay.
We are done with our Q&amp;A.
And so I'm going to turn it over to Don for a few closing comments.
Thanks to all of you.
And I want to thank everyone for joining us this morning.
In closing I just want to reiterate our confidence in the continued strength of our business around the world.
We're delivering solid results because the entire McDonald's system remains aligned behind executing our Plan to Win and we're focused on driving toward our mission to become our customers' favorite place and way to eat and drink.
We'll continue to focus on being smart and strategic in this current environment while always striving to deliver the best customer experience as we know we can and have in each of our more than 33 000 restaurants around the world.
So thanks again and have a great day.
Thank you.
Hello and welcome to McDonald's July 23 2012 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today's presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
(Operator Instruction) I'd now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson and Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via phone webcast and podcast.
And before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone as always the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both of these documents are available on www.investor.mcdonalds.com as our reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with a corresponding GAAP measures.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Don.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
It's my pleasure to join you today in my new role as CEO and I'm honored to lead this great system of first classed owner operators supplier partners and company employees.
And I’m confident that together we will continue to build this business for all of our stakeholders under the umbrella of our global plan to win.
As I said on our last call we will stay the course; the recent change in management does not mean a change in strategy.
With that let me provide a perspective on the quarter results and an overview of our plans as we continue to navigate this environment in the short-term and drive the business for the long-term benefit of our system and our shareholders.
McDonald’s continued its solid performance in the second quarter.
We’ve continued to grow market share despite a slowing global economy.
For the quarter global comparable sales were up 3.7% operating income increased 3% in constant currencies and earnings per share reached $1.32 a 3% increase in constant currencies.
And in July global comparable sales are expected to be positive but less than second quarter.
We’re experiencing stronger headwinds on both the top and bottom lines.
Some of the headwinds are macroeconomic such as declining consumer settlement and higher commodity and labor cost.
Other pressures are the result of planned strategic decisions we’ve made to grow the business.
these include actions we've taken to enhance our value platforms our worldwide owner operator convention; it brings the system together every two years and investments in technology initiatives.
Despite these demands the system remains aligned around the plan to win in our three global priorities to optimize our menu modernize the customer experience and broaden accessibility to brand McDonald’s.
We’re focused on driving results in this environment by continuing to refine our efforts around these priorities to address local market conditions.
So let's start with the U.S.
where comparable sales increased 3.6% for the quarter and operating income rose 2%.
The U.S.
continues to build sales and guest counts.
It is however happening at a slower pace amid an unpredictable economic environment and increased competition.
Sales gains during the quarter were driven by everyday value across a variety of price points and new menu news.
Breakfast continued the strong momentum with local market emphasis on core breakfast sandwiches and the introduction of Blueberry Banana Nut Oatmeal in May.
Beverages were also a key contributor to growth.
The new Cherry Berry Chiller helped to drive beverage sales on top of last year’s strong results from the launch of Frozen Strawberry Lemonade.
Relative to our core products our 20 piece Chicken McNuggets were highlighted on the new extra value menu which provides value across multiple price tiers.
As a result total sales of Chicken McNuggets increased nearly 11% during the promotional period when compared to the same time last year.
Now our focus remains on driving guest counts and we are resigning our plans as the environments shift.
These plans are balanced across product categories and price tiers.
For example we’re enhancing everyday value with new news and promoting core and premium products for exciting games like the Olympics sign which is starting today.
And to ensure customers have more reasons to visit us in a near-term we will continue to leverage promotional food events like Spicy Chicken McBites and also additional McCafe flavors.
Our new product pipeline also includes several new beef and chicken products and additional innovations around breakfast and beverages was currently testing a number of new products some of which have been adapted directly from other areas of the world.
Turning to Europe second-quarter comparable sales were up 3.8% and operating income grew 8% in constant currencies.
The UK and Russia delivered strong sales for the quarter and while France and Germany are also positive.
These two markets are feeling a pressure of the ongoing Eurozone difficulties.
Europe’s IEO industry is contracted as austerity measures continue to impact consumer purchasing power and confidence.
Despite this however the UK France and Spain have gained market share.
And in Germany and Italy we are maintaining our share.
So although year-to-date guest counts are down in several markets we are faring better than the competition.
Europe is re-energizing its 2012 plans.
Those plans are being re-energized to drive traffic in this environment.
Markets are also placing an even stronger focus on value offerings across the menu and on promotional food events featuring premium products.
The UK’s success is mainly been driven by a balance of popular menu offerings in the second quarter.
The great taste of America food event as an example boosted average check a focus on daypart expansion also contributed to results especially at breakfast with a new wrapped (inaudible) pork sausage bacon eggs potatoes and cheese wrapped in a soft flour tortilla.
Russia also continues to perform quite well with a strong focus on breakfast lunch and beverages.
Second quarter marks the seven consecutive quarter of double-digit comparable sales growth in Russia.
In France we’re increasing our media spend to further strengthen our share of voice and increasing the focus on our popular Petit Plaisir line up of smaller premium sandwiches that are priced at a mid-tier value.
Germany consumers remain deal conscious in an increasingly competitive environment.
We stepped up our value messaging to consistently remain customers of the great everyday value that they can get at McDonald’s.
The market recently implemented mid-deal of value meal that offers a chicken classic or McChicken classic or a hamburger Royale with Cheese along with a fry and a drink for €3.79.
This contributed to strong sales and guest counts in the month of June.
Germany is also leveraging its nearly 800 McCafes with new [news] including bubble tea.
This is helping strengthen multiple dayparts including breakfast and afternoon snack.
From value and variety on our menu including the McRib which is now available in 24 markets to our ability to offer more convenience options like cashless payment in 85% of our restaurants.
We are providing European customers with what they want.
And our commitment and ability to execute a great relevant experience for the customer is evident in our improving customer satisfaction scores as well.
Now shifting to Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa or APMIA comp sales were up 0.9% for the quarter and operating income increased 1% in constant currencies.
Across this region we are seeing fragile consumer confidence in Australia Japan’s uneven recovery and an economic slow down in China.
We are positioning our markets appropriately in this environment with strong value platforms to build traffic.
And we will complement these platforms with average check builders that include new food news and brand extensions.
Australia’s second quarter comparable sales growth was due in part to strong breakfast results as well as the successful launch of its Olympics promotion.
Additionally the Loose Change Menu introduced in late March has helped drive guest count and sales.
And as expected once customers realize that this value offering is not going away the use of the menu has leveled out and they are beginning to trade up to other items like extra value meals.
Japan continues to grapple with a difficult economy coupled with ongoing disaster recovery and anticipation of energy restrictions.
This is taking a toll on consumers who are now eating more meals at home.
Despite a significantly contracting IEO market we continue to grow share this quarter.
We responded to customers needs by rolling out a new multicare platform the 100 yen 250 yen and 500 yen menu.
We are feeling to even more customers with this new branded affordability platform.
Unlike any market that implements value our strategy is to drive sales and profitability by trading these visits up to extra value meals and other premium offers.
Utilizing our philosophy to learn share and scale Japan is growing its beverage business by promoting trail of ice coffee from the U.S.
through sampling events.
Turning to China in China consumers are reacting with greater caution as the economy has slowed.
We’ve seen this particularly in our tier 1 cities where we are more heavily concentrated.
We're also seeing high competitive activity focused on value.
In China branded affordability has been a key part of our strategy over the last few years and we are staying to course.
Value lunch and the recently launched value dinner are driving sales and guest counts that contributed to second quarter’s comparable sales increase of 2.2% and market share gains in our top five cities.
China spent this growing daypart continues to be breakfast.
Our ability to bundle convenience with uniquely McDonald's products is resonating with customers not only this is daypart now represent more than 9% of sales in China it continues to grow.
We're also making sure that the brand is accessible.
We remain on track to open 225 to 250 restaurants this year and also continue to focus on conveniences like make delivery and dessert kiosks.
As you can clearly see we are operating at a more difficult global environment.
And this environment requires us to be even more flexible and aggressive particularly as economic and consumer volatility persists.
And although we’ve continued to deliver positive results let me be very clear we’re not satisfied.
We remain focused on appealing to customers more than anyone else as we run the business for the long-term.
The headline is this we have a resilient business model a talented and aligned system and experience in every type of operating environment.
We’re staying focused on the things that will continue to differentiate us like our new restaurant designs.
We’ve already reimaged 1 000 restaurants around the world this year and remain on target to meet our goal of more than 2 400 reimages in 2012.
And we are on course to build over 1 300 new restaurants this year in emerging markets like China Brazil India and Russia and also in more established markets including the U.S.
France Germany and Australia.
We will continue to go after these new store development opportunities when and where appropriate.
We have the discipline the capital and resources to continue to do this successfully.
Now as our business grows and continues to generate significant levels of cash our philosophy for its use remains the same.
We will reinvest in the business first and after that we’ll return all free cash flow to shareholders.
In fact in the second quarter we returned $1.6 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
In closing we understand what we are facing.
From a macro economic environment to an increasingly competitive landscape we’ve been in situations like these before and we’re drawing on net knowledge and experience to manage through these times.
By remaining committed to our long-term strategies to optimize our menu modernize the customer experience and broaden accessibility to brand McDonald’s while continuing to fortify our shot-term plans I’m confident we will continue to grow the business for the system and our shareholders.
And with that I’ll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
Our focus on the plan to win and the three global priorities of optimizing the menu modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility continue to fuel solid top line performance.
I’d like to start with a few higher level comments about the quarter and then get into more detail on the results.
As you know the macro economic environment for the past several years has been challenging and unpredictable.
Our global diversification has been an advantage as pressures felt in certain markets were often balanced with stronger performance in others.
In second quarter 2012 this wasn’t necessarily the case.
While we face significant cost pressures as expected we also experienced slower sales growth in most of our major markets.
Persistent unfavorable economic conditions are weighing on consumer sentiment and spending.
And in many markets we are continuing to experience flat to declining IEO traffic along with a heightened competitive landscape.
We are employing different tactics in each market to address this with the common theme being increasing the emphasis on value in the short-term to drive traffic which is a critical element of long-term sustainable growth.
These tactics are likely to take hold beginning later this year.
Relative to cost pressures company operated margins are negatively impacted by higher commodity and labor costs.
In many markets this was on top of mid-single digit commodity cost increases last year.
Higher G&amp;A expenses were also a headwind.
As previously communicated the $100 million of incremental G&amp;A investments this year are negatively impacting operating income growth especially in second and third quarters.
We believe these investments in technology enhancements Olympic sponsorship and our world-wide convention are foundational to future growth and the long-term health of our business and brand.
While we’re not satisfied with these second quarter results they are not entirely unexpected.
We previously communicated that second quarter operating income growth would be affected by the volatile global economy and related headwinds along with our near-term investments.
In keeping with our historical practice we will not be updating or providing earnings guidance going forward.
While earlier this year we disclosed that we expected to meet our long-term average annual constant currency financial targets based on what we know today considering recent trends along with the heightened global economic challenges it appears likely that we will end 2012 at or somewhat below the 6% to 7% constant currency operating income growth target.
Now turning to results in second quarter system wide sales increased 6% in constant currencies.
We continue to grow both global comparable sales and guest counts and are now serving 69 million customers per day 3 million more than a year ago.
This contribute to a 6% constant currency growth in franchise margin dollars and at $1.9 billion they represent approximately 70% of total restaurant margin dollars.
The franchised margin percent was up 10 basis points to 83.2%.
Global company operating margin dollars for the quarter totaled [$815 million] and we’re up 1% in constant currencies.
The margin percent decreased 80 basis points to 18.2% as a result of softer top line results coupled with increased cost pressures.
To put that 18.2% into perspective it is our third highest second-quarter margin since the year 2000.
In the U.S.
second quarter company operating margins declined 90 basis points to 19.8% as positive comparable sales were more than offset by 5% higher commodity costs and to a lesser extent higher labor and occupancy costs.
As a result of risk management efforts and supplier production efficiencies the full-year outlook for the increase in our U.S.
grocery basket has been lowered to 3.5% to 4.5%.
This implies the second half increase of approximately 2% which should be fairly balanced between third and fourth quarters.
In terms of pricing the U.S.
is running about 3% for the trailing 12 months.
The food-away-from-home inflation index is projected to be up 2% to 3% in 2012.
If it ends the year closer to the bottom end of the range we may have a little less room to take pricing in the back half of the year.
As always though we will be thoughtful with future price increases speaking to maintain positive guest counts.
In Europe second quarter company operated margins decreased 30 basis points to 19.3% primarily impacted by higher labor expenses 4% higher commodity costs and to a lesser extent higher occupancy costs.
Europe’s projected full year commodity cost increase remains at 2.5% to 3.5% which implies a second half increase of approximately 2% to 3%.
As noted earlier this year we have less pricing power in Europe than in the U.S.
primarily due to the austerity measures.
Our price increases vary by market with Russia at the high-end due to a significant inflation and all other markets averaging about 2% year-over-year.
As [we’ll have] prior year increases during the second half of this year we will likely replace them with more increases.
Turning to Asia-Pacific Middle East and Africa company operated margins for the quarter decreased 170 basis points to 15.3% as modestly positive comparable sales were more than offset by higher labor commodity and occupancy cost.
In addition new restaurant openings in China negatively impacted the segments margin percent.
EMEA’s guest count increases significantly out paid comparable sales increases for the quarter.
So we are encouraged by the efforts of our franchisees and company employees that resulted in increased demand for brand McDonald’s throughout the region.
As Don mentioned in Australia where we introduced a more robust value platform in mid March comparable sales are steadily improving as consumers migrate beyond the value platform to the rest of the menu.
This overall trend is in line with what we’ve seen in other markets when new value platforms are introduced.
Turning to G&amp;A second quarter cost increased 8% in constant currencies primarily due to higher employee cost our biennial worldwide convention in April and investments in technology enhancements.
Our convention was a great success with 16 000 attendees walking away focused and aligned on our key strategies.
It also provided a great opportunity to learn and share ideas from markets around the world allowing us to better leverage our size and scale.
Looking to third quarter we expect a double-digit increase in G&amp;A given our sponsorship of the upcoming Summer Olympics and Paralympic games in London.
With regard to other operating income gains on sales of restaurants included the sale of 13 restaurants in two provinces in China to developmental licensees bringing our total number of franchised restaurants in China to 54.
The second quarter effective tax rate was 33% 120 basis points higher than a year ago.
Last year’s second quarter rate reflected a non-recurring tax benefit related to certain foreign operations.
For the year we continue to expect the effective rate to be between 31% and 33%.
Our business model continues to generate significant amounts of cash.
Our first priority remains reinvesting this cash in our business to build future returns and enhance shareholder value.
This year these investments are balanced between opening more than 1 300 new restaurants and reimaging over 2 400 existing locations.
We remain committed to this effort and are making steady progress.
Through June we have opened 450 new restaurants globally.
Regarding reimaging over half of our 33 700 restaurants operate current contemporary interior while more than a third of our exteriors reflect a new look.
Reimaging our restaurants is powerful because it is a multiyear multilayered initiative that can enhance restaurant operations capacity menu and perceptions of our brand.
We continue to invest on a scale that is unmatched in our industry.
It is an increasing point of differentiation and is foundational to our long-term success.
Our franchisees are financially strong and have sufficient access to capital allowing them to co-invest with us to secure our collective future.
Through the first six months we have completed over 330 reimages in the U.S.
350 in Europe and 230 in APMEA.
We continue to be encouraged by the results of our reimage locations around the world.
Lastly let me discuss foreign currency translations which negatively impacted second quarter results by $0.07.
At Friday’s exchange rates we expect third quarter EPS to be negatively impacted by $0.08 to $.10 with a full year negative impact of $0.21 to $0.23.
As usual take this as directional only because rates will change as we progress throughout the second half of the year.
In closing we remain focused on positively impacting those things within our control and executing on our strategy that has proven to be a winning formula.
We will continue to prudently invest today to drive growth into the future while our business model is resilient.
we are not immune from the effect of the ongoing significant global economic challenges.
At the same time we are making some short-term tax co-adjustments to address the current environment while continuing to build a solid foundation for long-term success.
We will not waver in our commitment to create enduring value for our shareholders and the entire McDonald's system.
Thank you.
Now I'll turn it over to Kathy to begin the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Steve.
I’ll now open the call for analyst and investor questions.
(Operator Instructions) So let’s begin.
First is Michael Kelter from Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
I wanted to ask about the focus on value and the potential impact of profitability.
So in the short and mid-term what are the risks that you have to meaningfully invest your margins from here to achieve the traffic results you’re looking for? And then in the long-term how do you balance any potential risk for the McDonald’s brand itself in Europe and the world – when you refocusing the conversation on value and [sensibly] training consumers who want to pay less for your products? Hey Michael this is Don.
Just first of all thanks for the question.
A couple of different things relative to value this is part of a – its part of the platform relative to any of the media expenditures in any one of the countries that we operate in.
So value is not a new thing.
The question is how much you address it relative to your marketing and media mix.
The other thing that we have to do is to make sure that we have a consistent value platform.
So we have talked about consistently last year and this year several markets whether they’d be Australia which was facing some economic difficulties in tough times and the need to have a consistent value base and now they have loose change which was implemented really at the end of the first quarter and really into the beginning of the second quarter.
We talked about Germany relative to McDeals.
Our new Chief Operating Officer Tim Fenton was just out with them.
And it is in a feeling value to consumers.
At the same time we mentioned that we have to also have a premium product messaging in the marketplace.
And so we have not given up on that.
All it is a tweak if you would relative to our media expenditures.
But we’ll continue to talk about the premium products whether it would be in the U.S.
Australia Germany Japan France any of these markets.
All right thank you.
Next question is David Palmer from UBS.
Good morning guys.
Good morning David.
Just a question on the cost side when I listened to other global consumer companies often on the stable side they talk about managing the cost and scrutinizing CapEx particularly as the going get tough.
I was wondering and thinking as you think about these coming years it doesn’t look like this environment is going to be easy going forward.
And right now McDonald’s is in a what it looks like to be an investment phase both on the overhead side and the CapEx side.
Is that aside when it comes to cash flow and P&amp;L are you thinking about those things and thinking about scrutinizing those a little bit more as you kind of settle into a reality that’s tougher? David that’s a good question.
First of all I’ll say around McDonald’s we’ve always had a practice of securitizing the costs.
So while you reference the investment in overhead I think we try to make it clear while we talked about the $100 million of incremental G&amp;A this year that that’s not necessarily a run rate that you can project into the future.
Two of those items the Olympic and the Convention are isolated to 2012 and our investments in technology while those will continue the rate of increase relative to prior year next year will not be at the same level that it was this year.
So take those things aside we were always scrutinizing cost and looking to be as effective and reallocate cost to drive more sales as we can.
Regarding CapEx while you indicate the environment going forward maybe a little tougher we don’t see a fundamental shift in our business model.
And so we continue to know that if we reimage our restaurants we will create that brand differentiation we know that even in these environments there continues to be increasing demand for brand McDonald's going forward.
So we will continue to build new restaurants where we see there is to be good opportunities then we can generate good returns.
So well we are a little more cautious going forward we don’t see a dramatic change.
All right.
Thank you.
Next question is John Glass from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
I also wanted to come back at the margin questions maybe just a little more specifically your global comps are 3.7 this quarter so nearly 4% in that than you had in the store level including food costs now you didn’t really lever labor and some of the other items and on the franchise side you got a little bit of leverage but not much.
So is this just an expression of the minimum comp you need and we have a view that comps are going to go now below this and so in the third quarter is there a risk to de-levering those items or going back to the prior question are you able to flex? And then secondly since you talked about food cost pressures abating in the back half which is good news obviously the current commodity market doesn’t suggest that’s going to stay good news for long can you maybe comment about your early views about ’13 in that context? Thanks.
Hey John I’ll talk a little bit about the flex piece and then ask Pete to talk a little more specifically about margins.
One of the things that we do on a routine basis is we have clearly reviews and visits with all of the markets around the world particularly our top 10 markets.
And what we really talk about is where they are positioned in terms of the opportunity to grow the business.
As we look at the totality of all the markets we then make any adjustments or capital allocations reallocations necessary for us to go to the real market opportunity but always being mindful of what’s taking place from consumer a level.
So there are markets today then initially we began out thinking we would deploy even more capital into but right now we may not be performing at a level to manage that kind of capital based upon comparable sales increases and therefore returns.
So we on a constant basis look at each of the markets and how we will flex in and out in terms of any of the investments that we make.
And then I’ll ask Pete to speak to some of your margin questions.
Yeah John regarding the commodities our supply chain folks our suppliers our treasury folks really spend a lot of time earlier this year in looking at the markets and did a great job in securing a lot of our grains and other commodities at cost before they ran up related to the recent drought.
And so that’s why we’re able to lower our outlook for this year and you can imagine while we won’t get into specific details we’ve taken a greater amount of coverage for the next year sitting here at this time than we did half a year ago.
So we feel pretty good that the impacts from the drought are going to be minimized our next year’s results as well to the extent we can see that sitting here today.
But as you referenced margins are still a top line game.
And so they are dramatically impacted by our comp sales and to the extent the comp sales soften that’s where you see that deleveraging.
Our next question is Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Inc.</strong> Hi this is Ashwin Shandilya filling in for Jeff.
I just wanted to ask basically in Europe where you’re emphasizing more value in other markets as well.
Using history as a guide can you maybe talk about the consumer response such are focused in the short-term? I mean I know maybe some pressure on the average check in the short-term but for how long does that occur before customers refer it back to more normal delivering behavior.
And secondly are there major markets where you’re perhaps being more or less aggressive on value and what are the expectations of those markets.
Thanks very much.
Thanks for the question.
There are certain markets that we have focused quite intensively on this year and also the latter part of last year to establish what we call as a value platform and we’ve talked about some of those markets Australia Germany where we knew consumer confidence was really in question relative to the expenditures and they also have a higher propensity for savings.
France we've talked about relative to consumer confidence in the event of austerity measures.
Japan we’ve talked about relative to what they come through now in this post-recovery from the Tsunami they’re also in a tough economic environment and clearly markets like the Spain’s and Italy’s of the world and at southern part of Europe that are having some difficulties.
In the U.S.
value will always be a major factor but we have to balance it as one of the earlier questions was mentioned with premium products with some of the beverages to offset some of the potential erosion in margin.
relative to how long it takes before you recover and what you see initially.
Typically when you bring forward a new value platform as I mentioned in the comments customers are not used to that.
in some times I think it’s going to go away.
so what they begin to do initially is that they will use that menu from a purchase intent perspective much more slow initially.
That usually does vain sometimes it may take six months; sometimes it may take a little less or little more depending upon the overall economic situation in the country.
Okay.
Our next question is Keith Siegner from Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
I have a question just more about the branded affordability in the U.S.
I know you just talked about how it’s always been a major factor always been important.
But one of the things that was mentioned in the call was should the food-away-from-home inflation kind of come in at the low end of your expectation it may limit your ability to take some pricing in the second half.
Just looking back over the last couple of years I think it’s interesting because after several years of running below food-away-from-home inflation kind of year-to-date you’ve been kind of in line maybe even slightly above.
and thinking longer-term how do we think about the broad-based positioning against that? And kind of may be regardless of the outlook should we think of a low-cost pricing environment in the U.S.
to continue to maybe come back some of the competitiveness? Hey Keith there are a couple of things and Pete may have a comment on this as well.
So food away from home is one – it’s the baseline it’s the most predominant measure that we’ve historically reuse.
But I have to say this we’ve also used food at home from a grocery store price index perspective as well as commodity costs and labor costs.
And so what we have to do is look at what we think will be – what will be within the range of price sensitivity and acceptable to a consumers which has typically been food away from home.
But also we have to look at what the direction of commodity.
So if commodities like they’re going to really ramp up.
We want to make sure we’re in a position to minimize the impact of margin erosion by taking appropriate price increases.
There are times when we will bump up against as you mentioned food away from home or even for a very short period we may actually eclipse it but we’ll bring that right back in line.
And that’s just part of the ongoing management of what’s taking place in a broader marketplace in terms of food costs labor pressures and then understanding what’s happening with consumer confidence and disposable income.
And I think Keith it also – it’s fair to assume in that kind of pricing equation if you will or pricing formula we do look at what’s going on the menu boards at the competition.
So the competitive environment does also factor into it but Don highlighted that it’s the more macro factors that we do look at.
Our next question is from Matt Difrisco from Lazard.
Thank you.
Pete I wondered if you could talk about the dynamic of the franchise margin in the U.S.
and try and help us understand maybe how that looks going forward as far as it’s been a several quarters of a run of margin expansion on the franchise side in the U.S.
and now it’s sort of flat year-over-year.
You can put that into the context of what how those – how that dynamic works going forward in an environment where – I think in the press release you said that the same store sales are going to be a little or guided to be a little slower in July and ahead than they were in 2Q? All right Matt.
First let me – July and I know this is generally out there but July we are facing a negative 1.8% trade day impact.
So that is impacting July as well as the fact that Ramadan is staring – started last week so we are going to have 10 days impact of Ramadan this year in July when that was entirely in August last year.
So those were a couple of things to think about when reflecting on that July guidance.
But as we said earlier the same thing applies to franchise margins even more so that applies to company operated margins is that they are a top line gain.
So they’re really driven we get tremendous leverage when we are driving comps and they tend to slowdown as comp sales slow.
The other thing specific to the U.S.
is with the reimaging that’s going on.
We are seeing a greater increase in depreciation expense.
But typically depreciation is one of those fixed costs that you could leverage with the increased sales but with the progression of increasing the reimagings we are continuing to layer on some additional depreciation expense that will continue in to the near future.
All right.
Our next question is from Joe Buckley from Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Pete I was wondering if maybe you’ve done this already but could you breakdown the $100 million of G&amp;A among the three things you’ve mentioned the April convention the Olympics and the technology program? So Joe we’ve somewhat broken it down and that we’ve said half of that relates to the convention in the Olympics and the other half relates to the IT investment.
Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Our next question is from Mitch Speiser from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Great thanks very much.
And I’d like to ask another question about margins.
In the global margin at the store level I believe it was down about 80 bps.
And Pete is it possible just to give us a sense of maybe how much of that contraction was due to increased focus on value? And as we look out over the next couple of quarters do you expect that emphasis to heighten or are we kind of there already? Thanks.
Yeah Mitch it’s hard to pinpoint precisely how much of that is related to our increased focus on value.
And specifically Don alluded to this a little bit when we say value it’s not just that entry point value so it’s not just the dollar menu or the one euro items in that menus.
It’s also some of those premium food events that are a relative value compared to the rest of the marketplace.
So I know we talk a lot about value to drive transactions and the implications there that is the entry level value and a lot of that is but it also has different forms across the menu board.
But I would say that as we focus more over these next couple of quarters it is likely that the impact will be a little bit more will be greater in the next couple of quarters.
Hi Mitch just one point on this one is what we’re facing now from a global economic perspective is we’re just seeing more markets that have consumer confidence issues and what we will consider to be more substantial levels.
so this notion of value and the way we’re talking about branded affordability while it is not necessarily new in all of the markets what we’re finding is that we have to again quake up our messaging our GRPs our marketing spend just a little bit more to appeal to some of these consumers who frankly have less confidence in the overall economy and therefore reduce the disposable spending.
and so that’s why we’re having as many conversations about it.
But having said that we've been doing this in each of these markets over time so it's not – they're not typically new things there are a couple of markets where it's new Japan let’s say or in Australia with loose change but particularly as they’ve been in France the U.S.
has had a value based menu Germany’s had SMS.
What we’re finding is we may need to quack that up just a little bit more to appeal to some of these consumers.
This is the time for us to really focus on guest count growth and market share gains.
And so we’d really go at this very hard in times like these even though that means an investment.
Our next question is from John Ivankoe from JPMorgan.
Hi great.
Thanks.
First just a really quick follow-up and then the question.
Pete when is that IT investment recur in fiscal ‘13 or is it the $100 million gone from fiscal ’13 so that’s the first question? And then secondly just thinking about the UK I mean obviously there is the Jubilee and the Olympics and there has just been so much kind of going on into that market overall.
I mean how do you think about the UK in general and in the second half of the year and in the ‘13 and is McDonald’s doing anything proactive to perhaps prepare for I don’t know if that happens or not but a slowdown like it happened in the UK for the rest of Europe as some of these events come in the past? Hey John I'll take the first part of your question and then Don can give you a perspective on the UK But the $50 million incremental technology investment spending this year that will stay in our base and that level of spending will recur next year.
So to say it differently $50 million for the Olympics and conventions does not repeat next year but the technology spent continues but obviously at a zero increase if we spend the same amount.
With that I’ll ask Don to talk about the UK.
Hi John Beijing – so if I look back to Beijing Vancouver post the Olympics what we typically do is we go back to business as usual.
So we don’t foresee a huge shift or change in terms of our base trim line in the UK as we move forward.
Having said that the UK will be facing some tougher austerity measures in the latter half of the year and so as those things come into play we’ve got to again make sure we’re looking at all of the macro economic factors in the market and making appropriate adjustments.
We’ve done quite well in the UK we’re balancing our growth across all the menu tiers and that will continue.
But we’ll have to continue to look at the market but right now we don’t foresee anything that will cause a substantial change in the base trend line.
All right.
Our next question is from Jason West from Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</strong> Yeah thanks guys.
I just wanted to talk about the U.S.
market a little bit you’ve obviously seen somewhat a down shift in the sales trend though the others are still healthy.
You’ve seen a slow down from the last couple of quarters.
If you could talk about how much of that is kind of a consumer macro driven I’ve seen people trading down to the dollar menu value menu things like that versus competitive activity that you’ve alluded to.
It seems like the competitive activity not necessarily value oriented all the time some of its new product oriented and just marketing oriented.
If you can just kind of compare that to maybe other periods of slow down? Thanks.
Great question Jason.
A couple of things we’re seeing a hike in competitive activity across the IEO marketplace which is an interesting point because it’s not just in QSR we are seeing it across all of IEO from fast-casual to convenience and grocery stores.
I haven’t said that for us as McDonald's what matters most is to remain focused on what’s within our realm of control.
So we will talk about the value platforms we talked about beverages breakfast we talk about premium based products and promotional food events like McBites.
We’ve just got to make sure that we are appealing the customers more so but we are seeing to your point we are seeing that competition.
Now the other thing is that there is an increase in terms of marketing spend by many of the folks in the competitive segment.
So we have to clearly be able to make sure that our strength of voice and our share of voice is still resonating with consumers out there and we build awareness for the McDonald's brand.
So this is not new we go through competitive fresher’s and there will resurgences and a kind of ebbs and flow from time to time.
But what it means for us is we just got to be focused on our business plan and execute that at the highest level.
All right.
Our next question is from Andy Barish from Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Yeah can you just give us a little sense on sort of the China business how much the last quarter slowdown was kind of – your thoughts internally more value kind of value dinner having a negative impact on mix et cetera versus sort of the external environment if there is a way you are sort of looking at that? Yeah Andy relative to China so clearly we’re seeing a little bit of a slowdown economically and we talked about the Tier 1 cities which is where we are which is where our presence is absolutely the strongest it’s where we are concentrated.
Those markets seem to be facing much stronger macro economic pressures than clearly the Tier 3s 4s those cities that are outside of the core in terms of where our focus has been.
So we are seeing some macro economic pressures.
On the value side we are seeing a little bit more media and marketing around value-based products.
Clearly I think we are in a pretty good position there relative to the overall marketplace in China.
But the other thing is that for us it’s got to be consistent when you execute value.
So if you look at last May June timeframe we were running 13% and 16% comps.
And so as we went into this year we knew that those were fairly high hurdles.
Nonetheless if we execute the existing value lunch strategy value dinner adding strategy; breakfast is our fastest growing take part in China.
We’ll continue to do well in the marketplace.
But we have focused on a little bit more based on consumer confidence measures.
We have focused a little bit more on a value side in China as well.
Our next question is from Howard Penney from Hedgeye.
Hi thanks very much.
I was wondering if you might be able to quantify what you are seeing in the global markets as you’ve described in the call today the slowdown anyway that you are seeing from the consumer because you’ve done 5.4% comps for the six month this year your worst year in the last five was 2008 at 3.8% for you or 2009 at 3.8%.
So you’re doing I think significantly better and you had a better earnings performances I don’t believe you missed the numbers back in 2008 2009.
So what is that in the global marketplace that you are seeing is causing the issue McDonald’s is seeing from a top line perspective you’re doing much better than what is arguably a far more difficult economic environment in 2008 2009? Howard couple other things one is that we started this year and we had the benefit of the leap year and we had the benefit of the unusually warm winter in a lot of places around the world.
So the first quarter while it was strong there were a couple of things that boosted that beyond the wherewithal normal performance churn event.
But as you look around the world I’d say one of the changes is just the length of this economic challenging period.
Back in ’08 and ’09 I think people thought this was an issue it was going to come it was going to go it didn’t dramatically change consumer behavior.
They did change some but not dramatically and I think now that it’s persistent for so long and especially in Europe it’s gotten so much deeper in some of these countries that it is really starting to constrain consumer behavior several of the markets there the Eating Out market is just simply declining.
People are staying at home they aren’t going out and the magnitude of the issues in Europe are having ripple effects around the world.
And the most significant is it is impacting the consumer’s behavior and whether that means they are saving more or they’re just going out less.
All in all it is meaning more flattish to declining eating out generally around the world.
An interesting point we look at it quite often is we’ve been at points what we’ve seen is one or two markets of our top 10 maybe three or four that might be experiencing some of these consumer confidence issues this is one of the first times when we’ve seen in a much broader base perspective so it’s a little bit more than European cold if you would it’s kind of a little bit more a global piece that we’re seeing across the board.
So what all it means for us is that the things that we’ve employed historically we’ve got to make sure that we’re in the best position again to drive in additional traffic in the restaurant to be able to trade those up but we’re making substantial investments to be able to do that now in all of the markets that we’ve talked about.
And we’re seeing some results in terms of some of that the guest count movement but we may not necessarily see those sales flow down to bottom line until we’ve got into a point where we can really trade those guest counts up.
All right.
Our next question is R.J.
Hottovy from Morningstar.
Inc.</strong> Good morning.
And I just wanted to follow-up on the product pipeline that Don had mentioned in the U.S.
You gave some hints about some new products that maybe in the pipeline.
but maybe the broader question just more specifically what we may be seeing in the back half of the year in 2013 and based on the success of McBites program earlier in the year there’s any learnings or any product platforms you’ve seen elsewhere in the world that may be successful or do you think it may have potential is the U.S.
just any commentary on that would be helpful? Thanks.
Yeah.
R.J.
a couple of them you guys have seen that we’ve showed at whether it was a NIM or some of you saying these in business to the innovation center et cetera.
but clearly the beverage platform we’re seeing has quite a bit of resonance and it is being looked at by many markets around the world as we move forward there.
But also wraps it’s a platform you guys have seen the wraps the wraps are being looked at in many markets around the world we’re in quite a few countries across Europe right now but the variations in the wrap whether beef or chicken your ability even going to shrimp and fish have been quite tremendous we’ve even done some breakfast work with those wraps as I mentioned today.
So we’re seeing those kind of platforms move around quite a bit.
On the premium sandwich side that was – I think it was at the Investor Meeting we showed you guys a burger called the Pub Burger in the U.S.
those type sandwiches that are more premium beef sandwiches and we can also do premium chickens are some of the sandwiches that have resonated in Europe.
And so you can look forward to seeing some sandwiches similar to that next year for sure impossibly possibly even the latter part of this year.
And our next question is from Sara Senatore from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC</strong> Hi thank you.
I wanted to sort of ask the question about the unit growth that you are seeing you mentioned them growing in emerging markets and then you also subsequently made comments about thinking about allocating CapEx and making sure that the returns are there.
I guess when I think about your growth algorithm the one you laid out and you said – that you expect to return too.
It’s usually I think has some low single-digit comps or a single-digit unit growth with the top line.
I’m just trying to understand if your growth shifts more toward emerging markets shouldn’t that mean that for any given amount of unit growth you probably have less of a contribution to the top line because they tend to be either lower volume or in the case of Latin America license.
So should we be thinking will that mix become more pronounced over time I guess this is the question so that your system wide unit growth may increase but it will have a diminishing impact on your revenue growth? Hi Sara.
So we talked about Brazil I highlighted Brazil as one of those countries but in Brazil as a development licensee it was the only country that I have mentioned in large part that is a development licensee wholly from that perspective When you look at the other countries we’re growing in whether it be China yes lower average unit volumes but we’re growing quite aggressively as you know in China the growth that we have in some of the others the India’s and the Russia’s other world.
In India we have a developmental licensee and a joint partner; in Russia that is a wholly-owned market so it’s all McOpCo; the U.S.
we have a mix; markets like France we have a similar mix and closer to that 80% to 90% franchise kind of a range but it is the traditional franchise.
So we have growth across many markets and the ownership structures are a little different.
So as we look at the allocation of capitals we're looking how we can get maximum returns but we are also look into see what customers want more McDonald's.
That’s the first and most important thing where are the true growth opportunities to build the business and build a system wide sales.
Our next question is from Phillip Juhan from BMO Capital Markets.
Yeah.
Thanks guys.
This is Phillip Juhan at BMO.
Pete I was hoping you can may be quantify some of the labor wage rate pressure you’re seeing and where that might be the most secured in terms of geography it’s a little tough to reconcile with 2% to 3% pricing in place.
How you guys are actually thinking deleverage on that line against the back drop of sort of economic softness in general? Phillip we're seeing wage pressure in virtually every market around the world.
U.S.
there continues to be increases in the average rate.
I think there were seven states that hit normal wage at the beginning of the year at a 4% to 5% clip which are impacting that.
In addition in the U.S.
we continue during the quarter to invest labor enrolling in the peek hour and so that added a little bit of pressure to the labor line.
If you go into Europe not only our wage is increasing but some of the austere measures in Europe include additional social charges an additional payroll type taxes that are putting pressure on the wage rates.
And in Asia a lot has been written about China and the pressure on wages there so we're experiencing wage pressure there as well so it’s clearly a global phenomenon for us.
All right.
We’re about out of time but we’ve got a couple additional folks in the queue.
So we’re going to take these next couple of questions; Joe Buckley from Merrill Lynch.
Yeah just want to ask about the European same store sales increase in the month of June actually it was pretty strong and you mentioned McDeal in Germany but when more value initiatives in place what sort of the timing of the – [you said about] focus on value in Europe? Hey Joe thanks for the question.
Couple of different things clearly in Germany SMS and we talked about this back I think it was April or May SMS has been stepped up.
We have to put more marketing dollars immediate dollars behind it.
Also they created the €3.79 McDeal.
So Germany they did implement that albeit toward the end of the second quarter.
In France Petit Plaisir is across the Board now.
It’s something else that we had mentioned and what they don’t have yet is a one sandwich type price point value but their base value platform is Petit Plaisir.
So we haven’t gone all the way to Eurosaver there.
At this stage the franchisees are discussing next steps.
But we believe we’re in a pretty good competitive position in France right now.
The UK has continued on Eurosaver’s.
Markets like Spain and Italy are in a value proposition called Uno por Uno and I would tell you Spain has executed this quite well over the last several years and they are performing well even in the state that the economy in Spain has had but there are other markets.
Italy is a tough market for us.
Italy right now even with the value proposition for those of you who visited Italy you know there is a lot of street side cafes and their value proposition is a lower tier even than what we proposed at McDonald’s Uno por Uno.
So we have to continue to try to see how we can breakthrough in a marketplace like that.
So it does vary a bit but we are seeing some early results nonetheless we have to stay diligent in all of those markets.
And our final question is from Peter Saleh from Telsey Advisory Group.
Great thanks.
I know it’s a little early to be talking about 2014 just wondering what your thoughts are on healthcare costs and if you have any kind of estimates around what that could do on a per unit basis.
And what steps could you take in 2013 to kind of get ahead of that.
Peter our current estimate is healthcare is going to impact each individual restaurant in the range of $10 000 to $30 000.
That obviously a wide range but there is a lot of different factors when you look at the healthcare law that impacts the number of employees the number of full time employees what is the current healthcare offering from the owner operator for McOpCo.
So there are a lot of variables but I will tell you that we are significantly increasing now that the Supreme Court has ruled increasing our conversation and disclosures with franchisees around what this mean for brand McDonald's.
So that they can be as educated as possible around what’s happening so that they can start to anticipate and make any changes that they have to try to minimize the impact of this.
And on a just a dollar basis that $10 000 to $30 000 we have years like last year where commodity cost increases were even greater than that.
So while this is a significant item and it’s gaining a lot of attention as the P&amp;L item we’ve managed through items of this magnitude in the past and I’m hopeful we can do that in future.
All right.
I’ll turn it over to Don now with the few closing comments.
First I want to thank everyone for joining us this morning.
In closing we continue to deliver solid results because the entire McDonald’s system franchisees and supplier partners company employees it is the most aligned it has ever been as we continue to execute our plan to win and the three global priorities that we’ve established in optimizing our menu modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our brand.
I’m also confident that with our solid strategic plans to gain market share over the long-term and the experienced senior leadership team that we have and the ongoing communications we have with franchisees we’ll continue to grow the business for the system and for our shareholders.
We remain steadfast in our commitment to our long-term strategies as we make smart and strategic decisions to mitigate short-term pressures in these challenging times.
So again thanks for joining us today.
And have a great day.
Hello and welcome to McDonald's October 19 2012 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today's presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
(Operator Instructions) I'd now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining us.
With me on the call are Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson and our Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone as always the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filings also apply to our comments.
Both of those documents are available at www.investor.mcdonalds.com along with any reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures that are mentioned on today's call with a corresponding GAAP measures.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Don.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
McDonald's is the destination for more than 69 million customers everyday because we offer great tasting high-quality food and increasingly more modern and contemporary restaurants.
We remain focused on being the most appealing choice for our consumers and because growth in the global informal eating out category has been relatively flat growing share in our major markets is key to our long-term success.
I’d like to discuss our latest results and provide insight into how we are approaching our business in the current environment as we manage for the long-term.
For the quarter global comparable sales were up 1.9% operating income was flat in constant currencies and EPS reached $1.43 which is a 4% increase in constant currencies.
And as we begin the fourth quarter global economies remain challenging and our comparable sales for October are currently trending negative.
We continue to face pressure on both the top and bottom lines some of which is the result of planned strategic decisions including actions taken to enhance our value platforms investments in technology and our Olympic sponsorship.
But other pressures have been driven by the external environment including declining consumer sentiment higher commodity and labor cost and heightened competitive activity.
When the economic crisis began in 2008 few people thought the environment would still be as uncertain and fragile as it is today.
It is clear however that this operating environment is the new normal.
As such our near term focus is on stabilizing and growing traffic and market share.
We have been and continue to refine our efforts to increase frequency and penetration by addressing local market conditions.
Our underlying strategy still revolves around a high-low approach that provides exceptional value across the menu at an affordable entry point and the bills on that foundation by offering premium products and offers that encourage trade up and higher average check.
Now given the broad based softness we’ve been experiencing I want to share some of the tactical adjustments that we are making to better align our actions with this new normal environment in our key markets.
And although as we mentioned in the past there is a lag between when these adjustments are executed and when we see impact on our results we have already seen some improvements in several major markets.
We are confident that these adjustments sustain the course with our three global growth priorities of optimizing our menu modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility will deliver sustainable results long term.
So let’s start with the U.S.
where comparable sales increased 1.2% for the quarter and operating income decreased 1%.
Sales in the U.S.
were driven by a combination of breakfast and beverages a focus on our core menu as well as support for all-day everyday value at both the national and local co-op levels.
The informal eating out industry has grown slightly in 2012 and is predicted to be flat in 2013.
And the competitive set has increased its activity pressuring our share in recent months.
The U.S.
has taken steps to further strengthen its plans for the remainder of 2012 and is working to address the changing needs of our customers in our 2013 plan as well.
We are focused on ensuring our value offers are supported by strong advertising.
Beginning in mid-September for example we increased our share of voice around the dollar menu specifically featuring the McDouble and the extra value of our daily double beef sandwich.
Looking forward we will be adding additional support for the dollar menu platform.
We’re balancing our value messaging with premium menu news including this month’s introduction of the Cheddar Bacon Onion sandwich which is made with hickory-smoked bacon white cheddar cheese caramelised grilled onions and creamy mustard sauce on top of a grilled or crispy chicken patty or our Angus beef patty.
The CBO as we like to call it was inspired by a similar entry in Europe.
This is the first time we’ve offered one sandwich with a choice of chicken or beef in the U.S.
and we've seen that both have a high rate of extra value mill conversion and average check increase in our test markets.
And in December we’ll bring back the popular mackerel sandwich nationally.
Local markets also continue to focus on beverages in an effort to generate additional consumer excitement.
About 6 000 restaurants have continued to offer $1 soft drinks and many are offering our Premium Roast Coffee for $1.
And just last month most of our restaurants on the East Coast had free coffee events to celebrate our customers drive awareness and generate trial of our great Premium Roast Coffee.
We are also building on our foundation to deliver future growth and continuing to make it easier for our customers to make more informed choices when they visit our restaurants.
We’ve long had nutrition information available online and in our restaurants through trade liners and brochures.
And last month McDonald's USA announced that it has voluntarily posted calorie counts for all national menu items on its menu board in advance of federally mandated regulations.
We are very proud of our food at McDonald's and we want our customers to feel good about eating it too.
I recently spent some time with our owner operators and the U.S.
leadership team and I'm confident that our focus on strengthening our value messaging and delivering more premium food and beverage offerings will enable us to appeal some more customers more often.
Now let's turn to Europe.
Third quarter comparable sales were up 1.8% and operating income grew 3% in constant currencies.
We've been able to grow our market share despite the fact that Europe's economic environment remains challenging and that the IEO category continues to contract as our steady measures impact consumer confidence and purchasing power.
Across the board in Europe value has become even more important as the economic crisis lingers.
Our markets have implemented a two-pronged approach while also promoting new food news in list average check.
The U.K.
and Russia specifically continue to deliver strong results posting solid sales for the quarter on top of strong prior year results.
In the U.K.
they successfully combined various sales initiatives to drive traffic and increased average check.
In addition to an ongoing emphasis on breakfast core menu and everyday value a recent rehit of the M food event which future the premium M Burger and the Chicken Legend with Bacon produce strong sales.
And in Russia we’re driving sales through beef and chicken sandwiches when locally relevant case profiles.
We are growing breakfast with the introduction of McRibs and by extending our operating hours.
France’s third quarter comparable sales were positive despite continued pressures including slowing European tourism and a declining IEO market.
And even though guest counts are soft our initiatives are resonating and we continue to gain share.
We strengthen our emphasis on value by featuring Petit Plaisir nationwide.
These are smaller sandwiches at the €2 price point and we also increased advertising levels.
In addition 600 restaurants now offer Petit free which like the Eurosaver Menu offers great tasting products at the one to two year old price range.
To promote value across the menu French recently launched the Royale Barbecue a quarter pound of cheese and a barbecue sauce to sales for €3.90 and delivers higher profit margins.
And while Germany hasn’t been impacted a significantly as the rest of Southern Europe economically German consumers are some of the most sensitive to global economic news.
Their high saving rates controlled spending habits and focus on price deals all reflect continued weak consumer confidence.
In response to the environment and softening sales we’ve been focused on driving business with great offers that round out their everyday value platform which we call the SMS menu.
In June we introduced the McDeal extra value meal for €3.79 to augment our premium product extra value meals.
Since then we’ve experienced all time high sales of all extra value meals.
The team is currently evaluating additional ways to expand the McDeal brand and to build on this momentum with more options for our customers.
In addition to combining Europe’s successful premium entries with the greater emphasis on entry price value platforms we continue to increase the number of restaurants opened for extended hours.
And we continue to modernize the brand with an ongoing focus on reimaging.
Together these actions give us confidence; the McDonald's Europe is well positioned to succeed in a long-term.
Now let's shift over to Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa or APMEA.
Comp sales were up 1.4% for the quarter guest count comps grew at an even higher rate and operating income increased 4% in constant currencies.
Like the rest of the world the environment in this region remains challenging.
Consumer confidence is still fragile in Australia.
Japan's recovery continues to be uneven and China’s more recent economic slowdown are all impacting performance.
However our focus on broadening accessibility through value and convenience initiatives has enabled most of our major markets to continue growing their share of the IEO market.
Japan has improved traffic considerably.
Thanks to our branded affordability programs particularly the 100 yen menu that was reintroduced earlier this summer.
The market is now focused on converting this strong traffic growth into top line sales by strategically using e-coupons to promote add-on purchases and drive average check.
In Australia sales gains have been driven by the loose change menu which recently evolved to include several higher margin item such as the double beef and bacon burger and the chicken and mayo sandwich.
This value platform has helped grow traffic and provides an opportunity to offer customers new premium product news like the two limited time lamb offerings we featured beginning in August.
The Serious Lamb Burger and Serious Lamb Taster Wrap cater to Australian strong affinity for lamb with a premium high-quality product and we’ve seen a strong customer response.
China continues to be a market with significant potential.
Third quarter comparable sales increased 3.6% on top of a 11.3% last year.
The Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities in which we are more heavily concentrated continue to experience more economic softness which is reflected in our results.
At the same time however we’re delivering double-digit comparable sales growth at breakfast.
With established value platforms to drive traffic at breakfast lunch and dinner China remains focused on building average check.
We also drove results with new menu news including bubble tea and the black and white sandwiches.
This unique bundle takes the concept of Yin and Yang and brings it to life with two delicious products in one bucks; a beef patty on a black bun with white sesame seeds and a chicken patty on a white bun with black sesame seeds both top with grilled onions and a black pepper sauce.
We also remain very committed to developing new restaurants in this high potential market.
In fact we are on track to open the 225 to 250 restaurants that were planned for this year and to meet our goal of having 2 000 restaurants in China by the end of 2013.
Around the world we have a solid foundation on which we are building.
Our business our brand and our finances remain strong.
And as our business continues to generate significant levels of cash we will continue to reinvest in growth opportunities within the McDonald's brand.
After that all free cash flow will continue to be returned to shareholders over time.
In fact in the third quarter we announced a 10% increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.77 per share.
Combined with share purchases we expect our total cash return to shareholders for 2012 to reach at least $5.5 billion.
So in closing we understand the environment that we’re facing.
We are drawing on our deep experience and customer insights to continue to grow share at our key markets for the future while making the necessary tactical adjustments to manage through the current environment.
We are succeeding.
As I mentioned before most of our markets continue to gain share.
I remain confident that we’re driving value for our system and our shareholders over the long term.
And with that I’ll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
McDonald's continue to grow both constant currency revenues and earnings per share by 4% in the third quarter as we faced softening demand tightening competition and rising cost in many of our markets.
The environment will likely remain challenging for at least the next few quarters as we lapped some very strong quarterly comps.
We remain focused on those factors within our control driving increased customer visits by delivering exceptional value service and new products through an increasingly modern and relevant restaurant experience.
Despite the environment we continue to operate from a position to strength.
Our global system is aligned our financial discipline is intact our brand is becoming increasingly more modern and differentiated and we generated another $2 billion of operating income this quarter.
We enjoy significant long term competitive advantages in our size and scale and we are committed to managing the business for the long term by strategically investing to drive future growth and returns.
Through September revenues increased 6% in constant currency while our combined operating margin decreased 70 basis points to 31.1% as higher revenues were unable to offset increased expenses.
Our overall profitability continues to be driven by franchise margins which exceeded $1.9 billion in the quarter an increase of 4% in constant currencies.
Each area of the world contributed to this growth.
The franchised margin percent for the quarter declined 30 basis points as positive comparable sales were more than offset by higher depreciation primarily due to reimaging and rent.
Consolidated company operated margin dollars were relatively flat in constant currencies and totaled $924 million for the quarter.
The company operated margin percent remains healthy at 19.1% despite decreasing 90 basis points as positive comparable sales were more than offset by higher operating cost across nearly all of our markets.
Margins are a top line gain and they are under pressure in this current environment.
We are continuing to invest in driving traffic by promoting and emphasizing value across most of our markets.
Although initially this negatively impacts both revenue and margins as we have seen with many value initiatives including the U.S.
Breakfast Dollar Menu and the U.K.
Saver Menu strong entry level value offerings bring incremental customers into our restaurants.
After a period of time these traffic gains become more balanced with sales gains as customers migrate to other compelling offerings across the menu.
Unparalleled value is foundational to our brand and to the success we have earned over the past 50 plus years.
During challenging and uncertain economic times it is vital that we provide this value to our customers in uniquely McDonald's ways to maintain and grow market share over the long term.
In the U.S.
company-operated margins declined 130 basis points to 19.8% for the third quarter primarily due to higher labor cost in part due to the 2011 HIRE Act payroll tax credit and a 2% increase in commodities.
The softening top line coupled with higher cost across the P&amp;L contributed to the decline in margins.
In the near-term we expect top and bottom line pressures to continue to negatively impact margins.
Our guidance for the 2012 U.S.
commodity cost increase remains at 3.5% to 4.5% with the projected fourth quarter increase slightly higher than the third.
As we look to 2013 we expect U.S.
commodity cost increases to be less than this year's increase.
We can offset some of our higher input cost to pricing; we are closely monitoring the food away from home inflation index which is up 2.8% through August.
Our price increased in the U.S.
through September is similar at 2.7%.
For the year the food away from home index is projected to be up 2% to 3%.
If the index approach is the bottom of that range we will likely not replace some or all of the increases that roll off in the fourth quarter as we strive to keep our increases in line with this critical index.
Shifting to Europe third quarter company operated margins declined 50 basis points to 20.4% primarily due to higher labor and commodity cost partly offset by positive comparable sales.
Europe's company operated margins benefited from solid performance in the UK and Russia which together represent over one-third of our company operated restaurants in Europe.
In terms of pricing Europe is averaging about 2.5% excluding Russia which has higher price increases due to higher inflation.
As we have said previously the extreme economic uncertainty and ongoing austerity measures have reduced our pricing power in Europe.
Year-to-date traffic is slightly negative in Europe.
So we will evaluate future price increases cautiously amidst the fragile consumer environment.
Europe’s expected commodity cost increase for the year remains at 2.5% to 3.5%.
Third quarter increased 3% and fourth quarter is projected to be up a little less than that.
Preliminary estimates for next year indicate an increase slightly higher than this year's.
Turning to Asia-Pacific Middle East and Africa company-operated margins for the quarter decreased 150 basis points to 16.9% as higher labor and occupancy costs were partially offset by comparable sales increases.
The acceleration of new restaurant openings in China continues to negatively impact the segments margin percentage.
As expected third quarter G&amp;A in Europe and corporate was impacted by the incremental spending related to the London Olympic and Paralympic games.
Fourth quarter comparison eased considerably with G&amp;A expected to be down slightly for the quarter.
For the full year G&amp;A guidance remains unchanged with cost projected to be up 6% in constant currencies.
Financial discipline is a cornerstone of our plan to win especially as it relates to G&amp;A and capital expenditures.
We diligently monitor the balance between our income and spending levels and make adjustments where warranted while keeping in mind our long-term growth objectives.
We will not sacrifice long-term value creating growth opportunities in favor of short-term quick fixes.
Despite the current challenges we remain focused on delivering enduring growth that creates value for our shareholders and the entire McDonald's System.
Consistent with our capital allocation philosophy in 2012 we are investing about $2.9 billion into the business through a balanced strategic approach to new restaurant openings and enhancement of existing restaurants.
Through September we have opened 812 restaurants and are on pace to finish the year with over 1 300 new restaurants.
We continue to generate strong returns on new restaurants in established markets with emerging markets like China achieving our benchmarks within a few years.
Reimaging is a key differentiator for our brand because we are modernizing both our interiors and exteriors.
In addition reimaging investments can enhance the capacity efficiency and overall operations of our restaurant.
Reimaging also allows us to stretch our menu particularly at the premium end as we have demonstrated in markets such as Australia and France both of which are largely reimaged.
Just as important a newly remodeled restaurant energizes our crew who are the face of our brand to the 69 million customers we serve each and everyday.
Similar to years passed our reimaging projects tend to occur later in the calendar year as we try to avoid construction during the busier summer months.
Through the first nine months we have completed 1 463 reimages globally and remain on pace to hit our target of over 2 400 for the year.
Reimaging continues to represent a significant opportunity for us to modernize our brand over the coming years.
Globally a little more than the third of our exteriors and about half of our interiors reflect a current contemporary look.
Europe is farthest along and we'll finish the year with about 90% of interiors completed.
The U.S.
has completed roughly 30% of this interiors and exteriors and is on track to complete 800 this year.
Together with our owner operators we have the financial capacity and access to capital to invest today to secure our collective future.
Lastly I’d like to touch on foreign currency translation which negatively impacted third quarter results by $0.08.
At current exchange rates we expect full-year EPS to be negatively impacted by $0.17 to $0.19 which implies a negative impact of $0.01 to $0.02 on fourth quarter EPS.
As usual please take this as directional guidance only given the volatility in the currency markets.
As a system we remain focused on executing against our proven plan to win and the three global growth priorities of optimizing the menu modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility.
The next few quarters will continue to be challenging from both the top and bottom line perspective.
We have the right strategy in place and are making the appropriate tactical adjustments to address the near-term.
As a system we are aligned and we’ll continue to make the right long-term decisions through a balanced approach to building new units and growing sales at existing locations to expand our market leading position in the $900 billion plus global informal eating out market.
We remain confident in our ability to successfully navigate the volatile environment and create enduring value for our system and shareholders.
Thank you.
Now I'll turn it over to Kathy to begin the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Pete.
(Operator Instructions) So we’ll begin the Q&amp;A with Michael Kelter from Goldman Sachs.
You guys talked a lot about the reason for the same-store sales deceleration being primarily macro driven soft industry sales and economic slowdowns and lower consumer confidence but this quarter your global same-store sales were lower than in any quarter even during the peak of the financial crisis at time when the macro indicators like consumer confidence were much worse.
Why do you think that is? Why is McDonald not weathering the macro turbulence as well as before? And then on a related note how can you be certain that emphasizing value is the right strategic response and [more] just compound the challenges you're faced by eroding margins too? Hey Michael a couple of things on your comments.
One relative to how we fed in the past actually the strategies and some of the results we're seeing are similar I will tell you one of the differences is it's been very red we've ever seen all of our major markets experiencing the impact of these kind of global economies at the same time.
And so that is one of the things that we're seeing right now and therefore we are as we have been investing to ensure that we continue to drive traffic and market share because we know that correlates to our longer term growth.
Relative to whether or not we know that these are the right strategies.
I mentioned earlier on the call our market share is flat or up in all of our major markets that is a definite sign of strength and we are gaining market share and some of our markets where we've really placed some of these additional efforts.
So we feel really good about that.
Clearly we'd love to be able to see more sales and that will come in time but right now it's about having more traffic and appealing to more customers.
Great.
Our next question is Mitch Speiser from Buckingham Research.
Great.
Thanks very much and thanks for sharing the trend in October.
And I was just wondering I know you usually don’t do this but you did say negative you haven't said that in a current quarter as far as I could tell.
Can you maybe just give us a sense of the magnitude of the negative comps that are running in October and does that big trading day shift play into that negative at this point during the month or more at the end of the month? Thank you.
Hey Mitch thanks a couple of things.
one is as you know we have been transparent and continue to want to be.
So we wanted to give you guys some insight into where we saw October trending and that's only what that is.
That's about October and the trend we see in October.
We won't give additional information about the quarter.
I will tell you that the trading day does factor into that negative trend.
Next question is Andy Barish from Jefferies.
Yeah just wondering on the inflation outlook for 2013 the U.S.
being lower inflation than 2012.
Is there something going on with contracting or supply chain just kind of shifting around when you look at obviously the raw material prices in the markets they appear higher can you give us a little more color there? Yeah Andy.
It absolutely has a lot to do with the contracting that's going on.
The suppliers were able to get a fair amount of contract in place before the drought started impacting some of these costs significantly and so we feel pretty good.
Obviously in January we'll quantify that for you and give you a little more texture but it really has to do with the great work the supply chain and our suppliers have done working together with our risk management folks to get some pretty good positions on.
Our next question is David Tarantino from Baird.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
Question on the tactical changes you’re making to emphasize value.
Don could you give us some examples of how that has worked in the past and may be the magnitude of the lift that you see when you pursue the value strategies.
And then also if you could give us some idea of you talked about a lag between the implementation and the impact if you could give us some sense of layout the plans for the next six to 12 months.
When do you think you’ll start to see the biggest level of impact on a global basis? Hi David.
Absolutely we can touch based on those points.
First of all some of the things we've seen earlier in the year we talked to you guys about some of the things we wanted to see in Australia and actually we talked about it for the very beginning of the year relative to their value and the fact that we thought we needed to have stronger value as we saw the economy soften.
They put in place the Loose Change menu we saw a very solid turnaround in terms of our guest counts our guest counts now are quite strong.
They continue to evolve the Loose Change menu to look for opportunities for profitability but we know again that when consumer confidence is soft what we have to do is to appeal to more customers to come into the restaurants.
Australia has been trending in a very positive direction.
They are clearly comping on some tougher numbers from last year at our 40th anniversary celebration but their numbers have been solid.
France we’ve talked about France earlier.
In France we say we needed to have stronger value so now we know Petit Plaisir is strong.
I did mention that there is a €2 Quarter Pounder with cheese that they’ve implemented in the market.
They've implemented a €3.90 McRoyal which is a Quarter Pound cheese but it has barbecue sauce on it to get a little bit more margin.
Petit Pre which is in the one to two year old price point range.
So France had to do the same thing and as you all know France is one of those markets where austerity is quite strong and the reduction in tourism has also impacted that marketplace.
Lastly I mentioned Japan.
Japan had we have been growing guest counts tremendously in Japan.
Now it is still a very tough economy but what we’ve seen is that we are in a position now that we would like to be able to convert some of those guest counts into more sales and more profitability but our guest count growth in Japan has been very strong.
And so we know that the value play combined with some premium margin products to give us some profitability lift is a good thing.
Relative to lag time and the impact of these adjustments that we make in the markets what typically happens is and it depends on the market.
We have to make the changes in the market and get these things out consumer awareness begins to take root and then we will see in a period of say 60 to 90 days we typically see the front-end of some of these adjustments.
When you’ve got a system like the U.S.
System and they are now reinforcing and going back to some of their Dollar Menu specifically Dollar Menu merchandising and advertising that's one of the things that has to take place by making sure that the operators are all aligned which they are now and if we get a chance to go out and do the appropriate things to our creative media.
So you begun to see some of these things already but in the U.S.
it's still going to take some time relative to them really establishing and reestablishing the strength of some of those value offerings.
The bigger piece in the U.S.
is what we talked about with the implementation of new sandwiches and new food.
So this Cheddar Bacon Onion we are pretty excited about that product is now in the marketplace.
It will be followed by McRib.
We’ve seen that McRib is the favorite and then as we go into next year I have already seen now some of the products that will be implemented next year and so I feel pretty good about where they are going in the first part of the year.
Having said that Pete mentioned the first quarter of next year keep in mind we are up against a 7.5% I think it is comp and so it's going to be a tougher quarter.
We had some benefits from the leap year benefit and also some weather benefit.
So we know that that's still going to be a tough quarter but some of these things already taking route.
Our next question is from John Glass from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much a sort of a two part question.
In Europe it does seem like you're getting some traction on value at least the last two months seem to be showing some directional improvement despite a very poor macro relative to U.S.
So can you confirm you're actually seeing in your restaurants that kind of improvement? And then further around U.S.
maybe we're just not as – or still earlier into this sort of value promotion we're not seeing it in the U.S.
yet and maybe it's just a matter of time but if you could comment on that specifically in the U.S.
you said you're flat to gaining share in every market do you still think that in the U.S.
this quarter or do you think maybe you have back slipped a little bit in market share? Thanks.
John for the U.S.
specifically we still know that for the full year we’re still gaining market share.
One of things clearly that we’ve been looking at is sales comps and making sure that as we look at comparables if you were through the rest of the competitive set that we’re also still in that mode of gaining market share or at least maintaining market share.
We have had as you know this quarter was a tough quarter for the U.S.
and so what I’m feeling good about is again the implementation of the value platform and Dollar Menu being more aggressively spoken to in our advertising and the menu calendar with CBO and with McRib.
So at this point still gaining share for the year in the U.S.
but also looking forward to the fourth quarter really stimulating some of our momentum again.
And in Europe John we are seeing the benefits of some of that value emphasis.
I think Don mentioned in his remarks the McDeals in Germany which isn't entry level value but as a value meal per se has really stimulated the sale not only of that product group but of all Extra Value Meals.
And we are seeing it as well in France with some of the items he mentioned and their trends through the quarter as well.
So the tactics are gaining some traction.
Our next question is from Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Just a clarification on a question.
Clarification just being on I know there was a question earlier about October and you said trending negative.
I'm just wondering if you could provide a little bit of color to say that kind of expatriating the shift is there any reason to believe we're seeing a change in trend line in any of the three big regions because otherwise it would seem somewhat understandable to be a modest negative comp.
But I'm just wondering if you could give any color as to whether you've seen something more recently in any of the three regions to suggest the change in trend line.
And then separately more broadly Pete you talked in Europe and you just talked about this earlier about pushing the value in the near-term it hurts your check-in margin but helps traffic.
I'm just wondering whether you might think of Europe somewhat differently than the U.S.
or perhaps Australia where they would be because it's not one contiguous region and so many different markets and consumers that you should see a different response from Europe with this big value push versus perhaps essentially sort of elsewhere? Thanks.
Okay Jeff.
Regarding October it's not our practice to get into a lot of detail while we're still in mid-month.
So when we do the release of the October sales in early November we'll give you the appropriate texture around the geographic segments and impact of the trading day et cetera.
Regarding Europe it is a little bit disguised when we look at Europe in total and the fact that Russia and the UK are doing very well.
They are both growing traffic both of those IEO markets are expanding.
So some of the phenomena we are seeing in the rest of the continent and mostly in Southern Europe where the IEO is contracting is not being experienced in those two big markets.
And in fact the UK has had kind of that traditional approach of value across the menu board so the Saver Menu with the 99 pence entry level value.
The little tasters with that kind of next year and then just great value across the rest of their menu with core and premium products has continued to do well.
So again that strategy that Don talked about bringing in traffic with entry level value and then ultimately those customers trading across the menu overtime is really working well in the UK.
And as the eating out markets either stabilized or start to grow again in those other markets in Europe we know that by continuing to maintain and grow the traffic that ultimately will allow them to expand their purchases at McDonald's as well.
Our next question is from Greg Badishkanian form Citigroup.
Great.
Thanks.
Just a quick one on China major QSR operator recently guided to moderating same-store sales in the fourth quarter.
And I’m just wondering with respect to your comment about taking share are you taking share from the global chains or is this more domestic and we’ve got a comment about the last quarter in the last few months or was that just kind of year-to-date when you talked about taking share in China? Greg what we look at is we look at the overall IEO so the informal eating out category and we look to see whether or not we are growing share in that informal eating-out category.
And that's what my comments were about when I mentioned we are maintaining or gaining share in our major markets around the world.
Relative to China specifically when we talk about share we focus our measurements on the top five cities.
And those are the cities that we have really focused our growth efforts on initially.
In those cities we are gaining share and we continue to gain share.
And so we feel very good about that.
We are less focused now on the cities around those five or outside of that five top tier cities.
We are continuing to grow into those cities but right now our concentration is in the top five.
Next question is from Howard Penney from Hedgeye.
Hi thanks very much.
I'm having some trouble sort of connecting the dots if you will for what is causing the deceleration in McDonald's sales trends.
And I understand the macro environment and the question those asked on the outset about the difference in time but last time versus this time but and when I think about what you are doing to address the problem when you use the word tactical it sort of implies temporary meaning value is not something that you can live off or an aggressive value strategy is not something that you or your franchisees could live off for sort of any extended period of time.
And I think about the changes that you’ve made to the menu and the way the menu has grown including beverages over the last sort of five six seven years or eight years since Plan to Win has started.
And if I go back to the last time McDonald's had a comp problem you did a time-and-motion study saying that the way the employees moved in the back of the house was causing a comp problem and it allows you to make creating inefficiencies and if I think of all the equipments that you’ve put in the back of the house it could be creating again inefficiencies.
So I am just wondering that the strategies that you are taking on now to really correct what you're seeing in the back of the house.
Again I'm not I guess this is more of a U.S.
centric kind of question.
But it just seems like there is something else going on that I can't really put my finger on and I don't know if you know the answer to the question either.
But it just seems like there is something else here that went missing to understand the decline in the or the deceleration in sales in what appears to be a continued deceleration through this year and early next year? I don't know if that question made sense or not but… Hey Howard I'll give it a short and you'll tell us whether or not we speak to the concerns that you had.
First of all when we talk about value we're not talking about as we view it aggressive value we're talking about having a value component that is a good solid mix.
So typically our value components are somewhere in the neighborhood of 10% to 15% of sales.
So we are not talking about being super aggressive and many of the markets that we've talked about this we had already made some type of an adjustment whether that would be we weren't speaking about value as much some markets didn't have value platform in place.
And then there is other market so if you looked at U.S.
a couple of things were done tactically that we are readdressing now.
So as an example earlier in the year we began to talk about Extra Value Menu in the U.S.
business and we stopped talking about the Dollar Menu.
That was as a result of trying to get a little bit more profitability in margin out of the existing value offerings that we had.
What we found is that that did not resonated strongly so we are going back to talking about the Dollar Menu.
So that's what we mean by a tactical adjustment.
These are not strategic changes in a large sense.
We're going to maintain value.
We’re maintaining our focus on premium based products.
We’re maintaining the growth category focus we have around chicken and beef and breakfast.
We’re maintaining operational execution around extended hours and operating hours.
We have continued to improve operations in the restaurant.
We continue to see what we call our CSO scores Customer Satisfaction Opportunity scores go in the right direction we’re improving there.
We have continued to support service enhancements and improvements where there's dual-lane drive-through handheld order takers continuing to reimage the restaurants.
So all of the operational things we’re continuing to move those.
In addition to just getting back on course with premium based products a little less advertising we’ve had this year on some of our blended ice beverages we did do the frappe chocolate chip frappe.
We’ve had a little less on smoothies.
So we’ll get back to get to the right mix relative to some of those kinds of things.
So that’s really what we mean when we say tactical adjustments.
They are not strategic changes.
They’re tactical adjustments are things we may have moved a little bit away from and we did that for reasons.
They were based upon some of the margin and commodity cost considerations but now we are getting back to a point where we can make these adjustments.
Our cash flow for operators in the U.S.
this year is up $9 000 year-to-date.
It is up $12 000 trailing 12 months.
So we are healthy relative to the owner operator organizations and we had a point where we can make some of these shifts.
Next question is from Matt Difrisco from Lazard.
Thank you.
I just had a question with respect to sort of follow up on that with the remodel campaign as well.
I wonder if you could give us any sort of color as far as the same-store sales.
In recent quarters it looks like you are losing a little share there in the U.S.
And I’m wondering if you are seeing the sustained lift that you were reporting earlier on a global basis from those remodels therefore I guess it’s still producing some good lifts rather than the overall comp base or is the overall comp base slowing it down a little bit.
And then I just want to know how should we think about our neighbors to the north there in Canada I was wondering if you’re seeing similar trends in Canada that you’re seeing in the U.S.
or is that a little bit stronger I guess as their economy is? Thanks.
Matt specifically about the remodels we're continuing to see the same performance out of the remodels that we've been experiencing over the last couple of years.
So that kind of 6% to 7% average lift is what we’re experiencing.
We were just with the U.S.
leadership team and the leadership operators a week ago and we took a part of the discussion was around that specifically and the remodels continue to perform as we've been seeing and as we've expected.
And specifically if you talk about Canadian remodels they are also doing extremely well in that same range as they have embarked on what they call “Destination 2012” but basically going about reimaging their entire system here over the next couple of years.
Next question is from Jason West from Deutsche Bank.
Coming back to the U.S.
a little bit and you talked about some of the tactical changes could you also talk down if you guys are planning to step up the cadence frequency promotion around new products and sort of much more of a new product pipeline for the first half of next year versus what we saw this past year and heavier marketing weight behind that is that sort of in the plans? Jason thanks for the question.
Yes we will have a stronger new menu presence for 2013 then we have had in 2012.
And our next question is from Larry Miller from RBC.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Pete I was wondering if you might be able to parse our how much of the margin erosion in the major markets was due to the increase in value and how much was due to the deleverage on same-store sales? And then in conjunction with that can you give us a sense on you talked about how the increase in the value program you typically see traffic rise in a certain period of time how long after that does the margins tend to normalize? Thanks.
Yeah Larry we don’t have the I can't pinpoint for you specifically the components of the margin decline between the value pieces et cetera because especially what you have going on in some of these environments is flat to declining transaction counts in the declining broader eating-out markets at the same time commodity costs are increasing significantly and we are promoting more value.
So it’s really the combination of all of those that are pressuring the margins.
And as Don was talking about it in one of his answers there is not exactly a specific timeframe with each and every market as to when you see that change.
Australia actually saw it probably quicker than a lot of other markets over this past summer when the Loose Change menu was introduced in the March timeframe and by the summer months they were already hitting hard with some premium product.
They hit a premium Olympics sandwich promotion and then went right into the Serious Lamb promotion which were great at trading customers up and building average check.
So it does depend on the market and the general both marketing plan and what’s happening in the overall environment.
But as Don mentioned we're confident as we do this that we know we will ultimately as the market start to improve hold on to those customers and trade them up.
Next question is from John Ivankoe from JPMorgan.
Hi thanks.
Just thinking about the U.S.
maybe other major markets as well that have perceived a recent point of sale upgrades.
I mean just wondering if there is anything that you can do in that regard in terms of customer loyalty for example or just trying to reach your active customers more specifically and maybe to offering them value on a very targeted basis through some functionality that either does or could it just on that new platform? Hey John thanks for the question.
First a couple of things and I know I'm surprised no one has asked it today yet.
But we usually get asked the question about this New Paltz help you out at all in terms of order in time and things of that nature.
We have found that we have seen a small benefit in this early on relative to that.
So the ordering time has decreased slightly which helped us with capacity and that's one of the thing that we wanted to be able to make the job easier for those taking the orders in the restaurant.
So we know that that happens.
Relative to other promotional benefits or consumer related benefits with our new technology systems we are looking at and testing in certain countries around the world everything from e-couponing to mobile order and pay to a bit of I will cal it a customer recovery customer retention type relationship that we build with those who have smartphone.
So this is one of the thing that we are looking at.
We are not at all prepared to go broad with that as of yet but we are looking at those kinds of things John.
Our next question is from Keith Siegner from Credit Suisse.
Thank you and my question is for Pete.
Pete as we think about this franchise margins and kind of this interplay between comps and I know you increased D&amp;A from your reimaging program I mean we could see it in the U.S.
and Europe as the years progressed and comps have slowed we've gone from gains year-over-year to now slight declines.
How do we think about modeling that interplay maybe for each of those regions where's the turning point like what comp do you need to offset the increased D&amp;A? In other words where do we maintain franchise margins in that setting where do we grow or where do we decline? Yeah Keith there's not an exact number that we can share with you.
You broadly touched on it.
At a 1.9 global comp for the quarter with the increase in the investments we're making in these markets that obviously is not enough to overcome the additional depreciation so it's somewhere north of that.
It also does matter on the pace of that reimaging.
So how quickly is that depreciation expense building as we start to get near the end of a lot of these investments in Europe those reimaging expenditures will start to trail off and so the incremental depreciation won't be as large and at the same time the U.S.
is around a similar amount this year that they did last year and should probably be something similar next year.
So that incremental piece will be somewhat stable meaning we'll continue to need that higher comp to increase the margins there.
Next question is from Joe Buckley from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi it’s Andrew Charles on for Joe today.
Don along the lines of technology upgrades can you give us an update on kiosks and where you stand with those? And then Pete I know you remain cautious on pricing but I was wondering what the early forecast for the food away from home index looks like in 2013 for context? Thanks.1 Hi Andrew relative to kiosk as you guys know we are looking at some we have some restaurants in Europe and we have one of the markets that we have quite a few kiosks in.
We're looking at how that will apply globally and whether or not this kind of gets to a point that was made earlier or a question that was asked earlier by John whether or not where we go with the technology platform.
So kiosks are one option but the other option is how much we use mobile phone technologies or smartphone technologies because those are also mobile apps and you can do mobile ordering.
So we’re looking at both of these things and we do have a couple of markets though that are almost fully implemented with kiosk.
And then regarding next year’s forecast for food away from home it actually looks like it might be a little bit higher than this year.
So this is preliminary but food away from home is looking to be 2.5% to 3.5% next year.
And then the other index we look at there is food at home and while this year food at home is growing more slowly than food away from home that will flip next year potentially with the early forecast being 3% to 4% for food at home.
So again these are early numbers but that’s kind of an indication of where things are going and I think probably right now more indicative of the broader commodity market than anything else.
Right.
Our next question is from R.J.
Hottovy from Morningstar Inc.</strong> Thanks and good morning.
Just wanted to focus a little bit back on China and Don I appreciate the color you had on the Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities and the progress you’re making there.
But assuming Tier 3 cities and below are going to be part of the program to get to that 2000 number by the end of fiscal 2013 could you just give us an update on the average unit volumes you are seeing in some of those smaller markets and some of the nearest locations you have there? Yeah RJ.
Clearly our average unit volumes are strong than our Tier 1 and 2.
They do decrease a bit as you go out to Tier 3.
The one of the things that we’ve seen also is as we begin to move out of the urban areas that's where our drive-through strategy really kicks in more so.
So as we really begin to expand and as we build more drive-throughs there we expect to see some stronger volumes as a result of drive-through base restaurants instead of restaurants that are in line.
So you got a little bit of a balance there.
In the urban areas where you are more retail street retail those volumes are very strong because of the population base.
As you moved to look further out if we build street retail it might be lower but if we're building drive-throughs with those then we see increased volumes.
Clearly you see increased costs but you do see increased volumes and we're seeing strong sales results in those drive-through bills.
All right.
We have time for one more question.
It’s Sara Senatore from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
I just made it.
I had a question to go back to China.
I just wanted to talk a little bit about the margins and get some context for the unit openings.
Is this different in the sense of new units dragging on segment margins or country margins? Is that a different fundamentally from what happens when you see growth elsewhere or is it just that you are growing faster in China than you are in other markets? And to that same point is the growth from like a segment level in anticipation of staffing up and that kind of thing for the new units or is it that they may with so much lower volumes that they tend to drag on margins? All right Sara great question.
It is actually something that we see in all markets.
So when the new stores open they tend to open a little bit below depending on the market but tend to open below the average volume for that market but then the next couple of years their comp sales exceed the average for the market and they quickly get up to that market average.
And so in China at 225 to 250 openings it is that pace of growth in that market that's causing the new stores to impact the overall margin more significantly than you’re seeing in other markets.
If you look at our margins before the new stores in China they’re actually up for the quarter and year-to-date period and the impact of those new stores is lessening compared to what we were seeing let's say this time last year.
So it is all directionally as expected.
And the new unit it is appropriate reason to why they are a little bit lower in terms of margins.
Some are as I mentioned the opening volumes they come out with.
Some are some of the additional preopening cost associated with opening.
Some as Don mentioned to drive-throughs which are going into some more green areas they tend to have a little bit higher construction cost built for the volumes we know will be there in the future but don't quite hit that volume in the first couple of years.
So it's a variety of those factors.
Okay.
We are out of time for questions.
So I'll now turn it over to Don now who has a few closing comments.
So I really want to thank everyone for joining us this morning.
As we said and we believe the McDonald's System of franchisee suppliers and company employees is well aligned as we continue to execute our Plan to Win and our three global growth priorities of optimizing our menu modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility around the world.
We remain steadfast in our commitment to our long-term strategies as we make smart and strategic decisions to mitigate short-term pressures in these challenging times.
And in closing I'm confident that what our solid strategic plans continuing to grow our global market share.
We will deliver and building profitable growth for the system and for our shareholders.
So again thanks for joining us today and have a great day.
Hello and welcome to McDonald’s January 23 2013 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald’s Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today’s presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson; Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen; and we have our Chief Operating Officer Tim Fenton on the call for Q&amp;A.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via the phone webcast and podcast.
And before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filings also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available at our website www.investor.mcdonalds.com as with reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with the corresponding GAAP measures.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Don.
Don? Kathy and good morning everyone.
Every day McDonald's is a destination for 69 million customers worldwide and our number one priority is to satisfy their needs by serving great tasting high quality foods in contemporary restaurants.<br><br>Now that focus on our customers is particularly critical in this uncertain environment where ongoing volatility continues to dampen consumer sentiment and spending.
More specifically growth in the informal eating out industry has been relatively flat to declining around the world and we expect that to continue.<br><br>While 2012 was a challenging year for a number of reasons both within and outside of our control we remain focused on stabilizing and growing market share in the near term while continuing to lay the foundation for sustainable and profitable long-term growth.<br><br>For the full year we continued to grow market share in Europe APMEA and the U.S.
amid a more competitive global environment and a slight decline in our fourth quarter comparable traffic.<br><br>Now as I share our results for the quarter and the full year I also want to provide a perspective on how we've adapted our plans as we strive to become our customers' favorite place and way to eat and drink.<br><br>System-wide sales grew 5% in constant currencies in 2012 where total comparable sales up 3.1% for the year.
Comparable sales for the quarter and the month of December were essentially flat.
As we begin 2013 we face persistent top and bottom line pressures and significant prior year results.
As a result we expect January sales to be negative.<br><br>In constant currencies operating income grew 4% for both the quarter and the year while earnings per share increased 5% for both periods.
Even though our 2012 performance was softer than recent years we've adapted our plans to be more aggressive and continue to build on the gains that we have made.
This will ensure that we drive long-term value for our system and our shareholders despite the pressures of the short-term environment.<br><br>We have a resilient business model and aligned system and experience in every type of operating environment around the world.
Our long-term average annual financial targets in constant currencies remain intact and are appropriate for a company of our size and maturity.
They keep us focused on making the best decisions for the long-term benefit of our shareholders.<br><br>This past year we met our long-term system-wide sales growth target of 3% to 5%.
Full-year operating income growth came in below our target of 6% to 7%.
Our performance was impacted by heightened global operating challenges along with planned G&amp;A investments that pressured the bottom line.
And while our one-year return on incrementally invested capital is not yet final we expect it to be in the mid to high teens.<br><br>As we begin 2013 we're placing an even greater emphasis on those drivers that excite consumers and generate the greatest growth for our business.
We still have plenty of room to grow within the framework of our plan to win and our three global growth priorities to optimize our menu modernize the customer experience and broaden the accessibility to brand McDonald's around the world.<br><br>For example our menu strategy provides exceptional value at every price tier by offering an affordable entry point and leveraging mid tier and premium products to encourage trade up and a higher average check.
We've also intensified our focus on the fundamentals in areas that are hallmarks of our brand including operations service leadership marketing and merchandizing.
And we're placing an even greater emphasis on scaling successes even more quickly around the globe.<br><br>The answers are definitely in our system and are driving our plans in every area of the world.
From compelling menu offerings like McWraps to winning value and convenience initiatives to our beverage business extended hours and new restaurant developments in both established and emerging markets.<br><br>So I’ll start with the U.S.
where comparable sales increased 0.3% for the quarter and 3.3% for the year.
For the same periods operating income was relatively flat and up 2% respectively.
Because we experienced softer performance in the second half of the year we adjusted our plans to reenergize our menu and value offerings.
We focused on entrees with the introduction of the new premium Cheddar Bacon Onion Sandwich in late October and the return of the popular McRib sandwich in December.<br><br>We also leveraged the news of our new NFL and Pro Bowl partnerships to remind customers about a classic favorite it’s our juicy and tender all white meat chicken McNuggets by featuring the 20 piece McNuggets for $4.99.
And we brought excitement and variety to the dollar menu adding the new Grilled Onion Cheddar Burger at the end of December.<br><br>Now our menu pipeline is more balanced in 2013.
We will be introducing Fish McBites soon and later in the year will debut new beef sandwiches chicken entrees breakfast and beverage offers that are demonstrating strong customer appeal in the test markets.<br><br>We also refocused our advertising to enhance support for value in the fourth quarter and we’ll continue these efforts into 2013.
The marketing calendar will balance large scale food events compelling value ongoing on-trade news and strong local activities.<br><br>In addition to the menu and marketing efforts to play a big role in our 2013 plans we’re staying focused on meaningful service enhancements that improve customer satisfaction and our service levels.
We are also expanding our peak hour performance to capture even more visits and broaden our accessibility.<br><br>Now let’s turn over to Europe where comparable sales were down 60 basis points for the quarter and up 2.4% for the year.
In constant currencies operating income grew 7% for the quarter and 6% for the year.
Europe was a solid contributor to bottom-line results even with the effects of the debt crisis and our sturdy measures impacting consumers.
While low consumer confidence continues to negatively affect retail sales and the IEO visits we outperformed the market and grew market share by 10 basis points to 9.2% year-to-date November.
Our performance can be attributed to three drivers enhanced value messaging trading customers up to premium products that they know and love and new product news.<br><br>Our base value initiatives are essential maintaining and attracting new customers that’s why many markets have reintroduced value either with new news or by evolving existing value platforms to be even more appealing.
In France for example we’re advertising the new Casse Croute sandwich and drink combo for €4.50 nationally.
And in Germany we’ve enhanced our McDeal value bundle to include two new entrée choices.
Meanwhile the U.K.
continues to be a bright spot in the region and this is a great example of how we’re executing premium office to resonate with our customers.
Its strong run of premium food promotions included the Bacon Chicken &amp; Onion food event which began in the fourth quarter and will be featured in France this year.<br><br>Across Europe we also continue to build the capacity of our existing restaurants through extended hours and by leveraging technology such as the new power system self order kiosk and handheld order takers.
Europe is a region that is right with opportunity and we’re well positioned to capitalize on this region’s long-term potential.<br><br>Now let’s shift over to Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa where comparable sales were down 1.7% for the quarter and up 1.4% for the full-year.
IEO visits have declined across most markets and we’ve seen a slowdown in eating out behaviors overall across APMEA.
In constant currencies operating income declined 1% in the fourth quarter but grew 3% for the year.<br><br>Now like the rest of the world APMEA experienced a challenging year of economic pressures.
Consumer confidence remains low partly due to Japan’s uneven recovery and China’s slower economic growth.
As markets review their menu offerings for the final months of the year and into 2013 they focused on leveraging seasonality local relevance and favorite limited time offers to both mitigate the softness and balance their value and premium platforms.<br><br>In Australia the start of the summer campaign featuring new Smoothie flavors and compelling limited time offers including lamb sandwiches and wraps drove sales and traffic.
And to further reinforce its value messaging Australia is re-launching its Loose Change menu this month with a new national program designed to drive guest counts and average check.<br><br>Now while Japan's results were the primary factor in APMEA's negative comp for the quarter the 100 250 and 500 yen value offerings drove guest count increases and market share gains within a contracting IEO marketplace.
As we begin 2013 Japan is focused on building average check in two ways; through trade-up opportunities with promotional products and through its focus on breakfast.<br><br>In China comparable sales decreased 0.9% for the quarter and increased 3.2% for the full year.
While the recent chicken supply industry issue minimally impacted our fourth quarter results the heightened consumer sensitivity around this matter is negatively impacting our sales into 2013.
We are committed to ensuring the highest foods safety and quality standards are met around the world.<br><br>We remain focused on growth check in the market by building on China's value position through a blend of menu news and convenience initiatives.
In addition a new web ordering system that enhances the customer experience lowers the cost of operations and drives new demand as being scaled across China.
Already in more than 500 hubs this system is helping broaden accessibility across China through delivery.<br><br>We also opened 256 restaurants in China last year making significant progress toward our goal of 2 000 restaurants in China by the end of 2013.
Around the world we have a strong foundation on which we continue to grow.
Our business our brand and our financials remain strong and we will keep building upon them.<br><br>As our business grows and continues to generate significant levels of cash our first priority is to reinvest in opportunities to grow the business for the future.
Our second use of cash is our dividend.
Last September the Board announced a 10% increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.77 per share in the fourth quarter.
Our third and final use of cash is share repurchases.
In 2012 we returned a total of $5.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.<br><br>As we begin the new year I'd like to reiterate my confidence in McDonald's.
Our system alignment is strong.
We're determined to leverage our strengths to attract more customers to gain even more market share and fortify our financial strength.
Our plan to win is strong and we continue to aggressively pursue the growth opportunities within our three global priorities to optimize the menu modernize the customer experience and broaden accessibility to brand McDonald's.<br><br>We have made the tactical adjustments that are necessary to navigate through the current environment while continuing to deliver value for the benefit of our system and our shareholders over the long term.<br><br>Thanks and with that Don and hello everyone.
The McDonald's system remains focused on executing the proven strategies behind the three global priorities of our plan to win.
In both fourth quarter 2012 and for the full year this translated into growth in revenues and earnings per share despite challenging market conditions.<br><br>We've continued to manage our business for the long term and are confident in our business model and hard earned competitive advantages.
McDonald's has a long history of profitable growth in a variety of economic and competitive cycles.
In the near term we do not expect significant changes in the macroeconomic or competitive environment though we remain focused on those things within our control.
This includes a 2013 plan designed to maintain and grow market share along with investments that solidify our foundation to drive future growth and returns.<br><br>In 2012 combined operating margin declined 40 basis points to 31.2% and continues to compare favorably to other large global consumer companies.
Restaurant margins are the main driver of our combined operating margin.
With about 80% of our restaurants franchise the largest component of our overall profitability continues to be franchise margins.<br><br>In constant currencies consolidated franchise margins increased 3% to $1.9 billion for the quarter and 6% to $7.4 billion for the full-year with every area of the world contributing.
The consolidated franchise margin percent declined 20 basis points for the quarter and was flat for the year at 83% and sales performance was offset primarily by higher occupancy costs including depreciation.<br><br>Consolidated company operated margins representing about 30% of total restaurant margin dollars declined 90 basis points to 17.8% for the year – for the quarter and fell 70 basis points to 82 to 18.2% for the year.
Sales performance was offset primarily by higher labor and commodity costs in both periods.<br><br>Moving on to segment performance.
In the U.S.
we [led] [ph] steep comparable sales increases in fourth quarter and faced higher costs across most expense categories resulting in a 150 basis point decline in Company operated margins to 19.5%.
For the full-year margins declined 110 basis points to 19.5% as 4% higher commodity costs as well as increased labor and occupancy expenses more than offset sales gains.<br><br>Price increases are used to mitigate inflationary pressures.
It is critical to maintain our value proposition by keeping price increases at or below key inflation indices.
At year-end our U.S.
price increase was about 2% which is slightly less than the food-away-from-home increased for the year of 2.5%.
A conscious decision was made not to replace 75 basis points of pricing that rolled off in November in light of this slight decline projected in 2013 IEO traffic.
And with projected 2013 food-away-from-home inflation of 2.5% to 3.5% we want to maintain pricing flexibility as we balance future price increases with our desire to continue to grow traffic and market share.
We expect the U.S.
commodity cost to increase 1.5% to 2.5% in 2013.
In addition labor and depreciation are expected to continue to pressure margins.<br><br>Turning to Europe for both fourth quarter and full-year 2012 sales performance was offset primarily by higher labor and commodities.
Company operated margins declined 10 basis points for the quarter and 20 basis points for the year to 19.1%.
Commodity increases of 2% in fourth quarter and 3% for the full-year negatively impacted margins.
Europe’s margins once again benefited from solid performance in Russia and the U.K.
which together represents nearly 45% of Company operated margin dollars in Europe.<br><br>Europe’s full-year comparable sales gain was driven entirely by pricing and product mix.
At year end Europe’s price increase excluding Russia was about 2.5%.
On the expense side we expect commodities to increase 3% to 4% in 2013 along with continued pressure from higher labor expenses.
Despite these near term challenges including an IEO market projected to be relatively flat to declining in 2013 our business in Europe remains solid as this is our fundamental operating model.
We remain focused and reigniting traffic growth through a balanced approach of enhanced value offerings and compelling premium products.
Menu innovation including premium products remains an area of focus.
With nearly all of our interiors and over half of our exteriors re-imaged premium products often merchandized around promotional food events have proven to be appealing to European consumers.<br><br>In Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa several key markets including Japan Australia and China enhanced their value platforms in 2012.
This resonated with consumers as we served over 1.2 million more customers per day versus the prior year.
Looking to 2013 we will strive to build on our traffic gains while encouraging trade-up and add-on purchases to boost average check and overall comparable sales.<br><br>In addition to compelling value many of our markets offer key conveniences including delivery and drive-through.
Convenience also means being available to customers when they need us.
Nearly two-thirds of our restaurants in APMEA offer some form of extended hours and over half are open 24 hours.<br><br>Relative to profitability APMEA's company-operated margins declined 190 basis points for the quarter to 14.4% as negative comparable sales along with higher labor and occupancy costs pressured margins.
For the year company-operated margins declined 140 basis points to 15.9%.
The acceleration of new store openings in China continued to negatively impact APMEA's margins in both periods.<br><br>The final component of combined operating margin is G&amp;A.
In constant currency G&amp;A increased 4% for the year less than previously forecasted due in part to lower incentive-based compensation and lower than planned spending on IT acceleration.
The overall increase for the year was primarily driven by about $90 million of spending on our Olympic sponsorship technology enhancements and the biennial Worldwide Owner/Operator Convention.<br><br>As a percent of sales and revenue G&amp;A was flat versus the prior year.
As we look to 2013 we expect G&amp;A to increase about 2% to 3% in constant currencies.
I want to briefly comment on the increase in other operating income.
As part of our overall refranchising efforts in Europe Canada and China we've recognized higher gains from sales of restaurants in both fourth quarter and the full year.
We continue to seek strong committed local franchises using both conventional and developmental licensees' structures.<br><br>McDonald's continues to generate significant cash from operations.
Our first use of that cash is to reinvest in our business to continue growing and generating strong returns.
This is accomplished through a balanced measured approach of adding new restaurants and growing sales at existing locations.
In 2012 we further modernized our brand through opening 1 439 new restaurants and reimaging about 2 400 others.<br><br>Full year 2012 capital expenditures are not yet final but we expect them to total between $3 billion and $3.1 billion.
This increase from our $2.9 billion estimate is a result of several factors including an increased number and scope of some of our U.S.
reimaging projects timing of projects and cash payments and overall increase in the number of new openings in all areas of the world.<br><br>In 2013 we expect to invest about $3.2 billion over half of which will be used to open 1 500 to 1 600 new restaurants.
The breakdown for openings in our largest geographic segments is as follows.
220 openings in the US 290 in Europe and 850 in APMEA including about 300 new restaurants in China.
The remainder of our CapEx will be invested in our existing locations including reimaging more than 1 600 restaurants globally.<br><br>Lastly let me touch on foreign currency translation which negatively impacted fourth quarter results by $0.01 and full year EPS by $0.17.
At current exchange rates we expect first quarter 2013 EPS to be minimally impacted between zero and negative $0.01 and expect full year positive impact of $0.04 to $0.05.
As always please take this as directional only because I know rates will change as we move throughout the year.<br><br>As we begin 2013 we are mindful of the challenging comparisons we have in the first quarter as well as the ongoing pressures on both our top and bottom lines.
I'm confident in the adjustments we have made to fortify our near-term performance while remaining focused on the larger opportunities over the longer term.<br><br>McDonald's has earned significant long-term competitive advantages in size and scale.
We are uniquely well positioned to capitalize on future growth opportunities within the $1 trillion global informal eating out industry where our market share today is less than 9%.
McDonald's has a strong history of creating significant value for shareholders over time and we remain committed to continuing to do so in the years to come.
Thank you.<br><br>Now I’ll turn it over to Kathy to begin our Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks Pete.
We are going to now open the call for Analysts and Investor questions.
(Operator Instructions) So we’ll start with Brian Bittner from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
I have a question about just your guidance for 2013 for that the 6% to 7% operating income growth.
It clearly assumes that your sales do recover nicely but we’d also assume I guess is that you can better leverage the sales growth than you have recently and really increase the margins here.
And I just – it seems as though they could be somewhat of a challenge there is still margin headwinds and even on kind of low single-digit same-store sales growth it could be tough for the franchising company margins to really improve.
So if you could just give us a little more color on the confidence in that 6% to 7% operating income growth given what seems to be some margin headwinds how are you going to be able to better leverage sales growth Brian.
Thanks much for the question.
I will comment on this first one and Pete may have something to add.
What I would say Brian is we absolutely believe that our 6% to 7% operating income guidance is the right target for our growth over the long-term.
And as we say throughout 2012 we firmly believe that what we’ve to do is appeal to more customers we got to appeal relative to top line growth we got to have a variety or stronger variety and a stronger pipeline that’s executed in the various markets.
We believe we definitely have that going into 2013 and feel better about the robustness if you would with that food pipeline.<br><br>We know also that these are – 2013 is still going to be a tough economic environment around the world.
We know this in Europe we know it in APMEA in the U.S.
we’re seeing some signs of maybe a slight recovery however having said that we also know that we have commodity pressures and some labor pressures.
So by no means do we intend to state that 2013 is going to be an easy year.
However we believe our target 6% to 7% are the appropriate targets.
We believe our plan to continue to focus on food in the menu to modernize the customer experience to continue our re-images by all means on a two year trade day adjusted basis was a very strong month one of the best of the year despite Japan’s weakness.
When looking at the January guidance for a slight negative while still very strong was a slight slowdown and I know you don’t usually like to get into regional breakdowns but even at a qualitative basis is if there’s anything you think you could offer is this is some of that coming from the U.S.
is the payroll tax maybe playing some role in this Keith.
As you know Keith based upon last year we had a very strong first quarter.
In that first quarter we were – we experienced sales that were up 7.3%.
We had success across markets.
The U.S.
was particularly strong clearly.
Europe was very strong.
But as we move into 2013 we also know that we’re comping against those success factors.
We rarely talk about things like weather and the fact that where Chinese New Year shifts around.
So as long as we continue to talk about the entire first quarter we know we’ll see some shifts from a January into a February relative to the Chinese New Year but it won’t affect the overall quarter.
So we believe that as we move into as we talk about our first quarter sales that the first quarter sales will mute out many of the things that were – that shifted around during last year.<br><br>Having said that it was a 7.5% -- as I mentioned it was a 7.5% or 7.3% comp in the first quarter of last year and so we know we’re going up against that it’s going to be fairly tough.
In the first quarter of the year we do see a shift from a Chinese New Year perspective out of January into February so we know that that’s going to be a part of that.
We believe the plans that we’ve seen are solid plans guys.
If I can throw in a little one on China.
Is the consumer reaction there to that chicken supply issue diminishing or is it still as bad as it has been? My major question though is on reimaging.
When you factor in the reimaging the new build for relocation and reimages what percent of the system is now done and where do you think that percentage will be in a year David.
First of all safety of our food is always top of mind for our customers it's one of our priorities.
We have strong procedures in place McDonald's China for testing all of our products.
We test all batches of all of our raw products that come through our doors.
So a very little impact in December as a whole maybe seeing a little bit more as far as reimaging in the U.S.
we closed the year at about 35% complete on both interiors and exteriors.
Europe was a little over 90% done on the interiors.
As you know they started sooner and over 50% on the exteriors.
And APMEA is about 60% done on the interiors and close to 50% on the exteriors.
You saw in our guidance that we're actually reducing the number of reimages in 2013 relative to 2012.
Part of that is because of the substantial progress we've made in a lot of these countries including Canada which we typically don't break out separately as well as the conscious decision I certain markets China being one to redirect some of the capital toward new store openings.
As far as the sales performance it continues to be strong and within our expectations and as we get more and more history especially in the U.S.
it's the data I'm most familiar with we're actually seeing the second year incremental comp sales stronger than the first so that benefit continues to grow.
I think as the trade area and customers get used to the new environment and the more modern and relevance surrounding in addition to some of the more investments we do to improve the efficiency like the dual drive-through is the recent increased focus on value exacerbating the issue at all? And separately Michael.
Just a couple of things relative to the value piece because we get asked this question quite often.
The first thing I'd say is that in the US keep in mind we always had the Dollar Menu.
What we did towards the fourth quarter of – in the fourth quarter of last year was really go back to advertising the dollar menu more because we had shifted our media weight over to the Extra Value Menu.
So we took it away from Extra Value put it back over the Dollar Menu.
If you look at it from a percent of sales perspective the Dollar Menu is still in the 10% to 15% range.
Typically we say 13 to 15 is still in that range so it has not gone up by some substantial amount Michael to – you asked about enhancing it Inc.</strong><br><br>Great.
Thanks very much and you’ve answered a lot of my questions in the prepared comments.
Just on the cash flow which there isn’t a lot of data on – in the press release.
The share buyback was a bit lower in the fourth quarter your dividend payments I think are now exceeding share repurchase.
As we look at 2013 and given the increased CapEx budget you know regarding the quarter typically the fourth quarter is our lowest share repurchase as we tend to have our dividend increase in the quarter and we spend a significant portion of our CapEx in the fourth quarter.
So you typically see our share repurchase less.
As you point out the dividend continues to increase that continues to be a greater portion of our free cash flow Inc.</strong><br><br>Hi.
Good morning.
I wanted to come back to the 6% to 7% long-term operating income guidance and my question centers around 2013 you’re coming off the year in 2012 where you didn’t had that guidance for the first time in recent memory.
So David.
Let me just reiterate something that I mentioned in the formal comments and that was in 2012 we did meet our long-term system wide sales growth target of 3% to 5% in constant currencies.
And so from a top line perspective we did have growth that was in line with what our expectations were.
Also keep in mind in 2012 that we had some additional G&amp;A investments that were made incremental G&amp;A investments that we made around several things.
One was the Olympics another was an incremental investment in technology we wanted to really establish a NewPOS technology system which will help us operationally around the world in a stronger fashion.
And then clearly we also had our owner operator’s convention.
We had several things that came into play.
So I wanted to make sure that we also put that in perspective.
If you were to net those things out we would have still came in at about – we would had about a 5% growth in constant currencies and so first is just the level set that’s very important.<br><br>The long-term targets that we've established are exactly that they are the long-term average targets that we believe are viable for our business; so the 6% to 7% is that long-term target.
We also know that one year doesn’t change our strategy.
One year will not change our results.
We don’t think that there’s been a fundamentally enough shift for us to change our targets as we move forward every region phenomenon’s negative or is this specifically driven you highlighted Chinese New Year and some other issues.
Is it really just APMEA and maybe you’ll see other regions as being better or slightly positive because in the U.S.
you would – really saw a trend change in December I guess -- we’re all trying to figure out if that’s an anomaly that’s just a clarification.
And then the margin question in the U.S.
food inflation is going to be half the rate it was in the last two years and it sounds like you’re going to price a bottom line with inflation.
So why wouldn’t that be a relatively positive sign if you could maybe just hold margin in ’13? I understand sales depending to some degree John its Pete.
On January it’s not our practice to get into the regional breakout of that.
So we need to get the month behind us and I’ll give you all the texture and commentary when we release in early February.
As far as the U.S.
margin goes you hit on it – it’s really a top-line game.
So well yes we’re going to experience some relief in the commodity side.
We’re still going to have a shrinking eating out market based on the most recent projections anywhere from 20 to 50 basis points are the forecast I’ve seen.
So in that environment it makes it even more challenging from a pricing perspective to recover all of those input costs.
So once we get passed the first quarter which is our toughest comparison I want to believe that the comparisons and the margin performance will be less pressured than it was in 2012.
But until we really see an expansion in the consumer environment and the eating out market Inc.</strong><br><br>Great.
Thank you very much.
Just kind of moving more towards Europe seems like the value focus has been in place now over the past few quarters.
Just wondering whether in your view it's reasonable to assume that the goal to stabilize traffic kind of at the expense of average chicken margin was a success and as we look to '13 maybe should we see benefit from some trade backup to whether it be core or premium menu as you guys have alluded to in the past therefore a return to perhaps positive comps and margin expansion in Europe.
It seems like Germany and France are the areas where color would be helpful? And then just as an aside Jeff.
I'll touch base on the frontend and then I'm going to ask Tim Fenton to talk a little bit about what he's seeing relative to some of the plans from – some of the markets across Europe.
If we go back to 2012 one of the things that we mentioned is that we needed to really institute a stronger value messaging in France and in Germany.
We had one that we felt fairly strong about in Spain.
We needed to really initiate a stronger value platform in Italy.
And so that was kind of the way we entered into 2012.
We do feel much better relative to having had France make many steps forward which Tim can talk a little bit about relative to their value enhancements.
In Germany Germany is a tough environment from a consumer perspective.
It is as we've always mentioned the most cost sensitive from a promotional perspective.
We have some things that we've been doing there with the 3.79 meal deal but there's some other pieces that have come about that Tim and the team have looked at relative to France and Germany.
So do we feel like we've established value platforms across Europe? Yes much more so than when we were in 2012 so it won't demand the same level of trying to implement value.
But now what we've got to do is make sure we're reinforcing some of the other parts of the plan.
And so Tim has been meeting with the folks and going over plans recently there's some headwinds obviously in Europe.
Decreasing consumer confidence I think it's been at the all-time low since they've been tracking it.
IEO continues to contract however Europe gained market share for 2012.
France base back in the second quarter put much more emphasis on some of their value initiatives that they had with petite pleasures just started and Don alluded to the Casse Croute in France about 10 days ago which is basically a baguette and a drink for €4.50 just started 10 days ago with advertising so we really don't have a lot of input on that.
And as far as Germany the McDeal started back in June which is two EVM's for €3.79 and just been the most price sensitive country we have as well as shifting some of our focus our GRPs on our SMS which is equivalent to like a Dollar Menu that we have here in the US.
So tough nut we're working at it.
The good thing is we're coming from a position of strength as far as market share as far as sheer voice physical plants operations a quick update on the 24 hours.
APMEA leads the system with 60% of their restaurants at 24 hours.
The U.S.
is at 44% and Europe is at 26%.
And all of those thanks.
Just one quick one on Japan if you could talk a bit more about what you're doing to turn that around.
Is that really just a broader market issue or is it something you can do there to change the trend and when that might happen? And just bigger picture on the CapEx and the growth outlook Don you guys are kind of pushing a little bit harder on unit growth again and you're not changing your long-term EBIT growth number so it does suggest the returns could be under some pressure Jason its Tim.
First of all I think Japan is probably where the most competitive markets we’ve right now with – in the IEO and it is a declining IEO market.
In spite of that again Japan is gaining market share in 2012.
They’re also strategically working – moving away from some of the tactical promotions or discounts they would had and if you look in 2012 – 2011 was right on the 40th anniversary so that moving away from the tactical to more of a strategic value I know you referenced ramping up.
It’s not really a ramp up.
What we have established is a long-term development strategy.
It is a part of the overall plan to win in one of the three global priorities and to broadening accessibility.
Our goal is to be able to grow to the real opportunity that McDonald’s has out there and we think that we do clearly have some opportunities there.
What we don’t want to do Jason is getting to an old habit that we had which was we start developing and maybe the economic environment will get slightly more difficult so we slow down we ramp up the teams and the resources and ramp them down.
We were inconsistent in growth.
We changed that in China.
We’re now looking at markets that are higher opportunity markets around the world to be able to ensure that we have a steady consistent plan strategic growth as we move forward.<br><br>And on the CapEx I mean Jason the increase in unit we just take the mid-point of our 2013 guidance.
It’s a little over a 100 increase in units.
More than half of those are coming out of China and we talked about the opportunity there and the strategic importance to growth there.
Europe’s another 30 of those roughly.
In places like Russia Italy Spain where again as Don mentioned the opportunity continues to be large so I’m going to ask you to try to stick to that one question.
So our next question comes from Joe Buckley I want to stay on the CapEx side for a moment.
You referenced in the G&amp;A in the fourth quarter the acceleration in the IT slowing a little bit and it sounds like you’re shifting resources away from re-models towards new units and I am not sure where the IT plans fit in in that.
Has that been slowed a little bit as well the slowdown in the IT acceleration really was more impactful to G&amp;A than it was to the CapEx.
And the slowdown really was just a shift.
So we had identified the plans that we have and just as things softened a little bit at the end of 2012 we made a conscious decision to slow down a little bit on that and so we’re continuing to focus and that’s primarily as you know rolling out our new POS system and doing some things around our financial and HR systems around the world.
Those continue to be a focus.
We’re just pacing that slightly differently.<br><br>In terms of the CapEx as Don mentioned this is growing to market opportunity.
So it's not – we’re going to get 2.5% of our sales growth in 2013 from unit expansion and that’s half of our 5% kind of top-end target.
So this is not really a dramatic change or shift.
And again if you think about more than half of that increase coming from China where we know the long-term opportunity is huge and again that comment it's very important that Don made it's very hard to start and stop new restaurant development and you can't use one year’s results or one year’s pressure on margin to make a quick and short-term decision that has a negative impact to the long term.
So we worked hard these last couple of years to build the pipeline to improve our tools to improve the unit economics such that when we open these restaurants also the need does shift a little bit.
If you look at Europe we're over 90% complete with the interiors.
Australia is fully reimaged.
And so when those markets don't need the level of reimaging capital but if I benchmark yourself against some of the other competitors that we can see the data for it doesn't look like you're actually gaining market share.
And I know a lot of these concepts are nipping at your butt in terms of copying your menu and narrowing the gap in terms of look and feel of the restaurants with yours.
I'm just wondering how you are responding and I say that Howard.
I'll take the first part and I'll ask Tim to speak a little bit about some of the things he's seen relative to the U.S.
as they just went through again plant reviews.
But overall here's what I would say to you.
Clearly from the year of 2012 we grew market share in the U.S.
and so we feel good about that.
Howard clearly as we came to the latter part of the year or in the third or fourth quarters we felt some softening and some slowing ourselves and make some adjustments in the plan a couple of things we needed to do stronger.
We need to have and execute we had it but execute them more robust menu pipeline for our consumers and that's across the board in beverages and beef offerings and chicken offerings and I feel good about that and Tim will expand on that a bit.
We needed to be able to reestablish value.
We were kind of in the middle of a place that was not good.
We were between Extra Value Menu and Dollar Menu.
We have an iconic property in terms of Dollar Menu to be able to put the advertising and the weight back there and add some creative juice to that is what we wanted to do and so I think those things were archived in 2012.
So now as we move into 2013 we've got to take those to the next level in menu and being able to make sure that we secure even more customers.
So with that Howard actually in December we had a positive 1.1% gap versus our competition after being slightly negative in October and November.
I think what we feel really good about coming through the last meeting was our pipeline as Don mentioned in his -- for new products in his new comments is much more robust than it was this time last year.
We've got over 180 products.
We can pull from our menu globally and we found that a lot of these products they travel quite well and I guess a good example would be the CBO that we just ran in the fourth quarter which came out of Europe was very successful for us.
Chicken McBites came from Australia.
But we have a lot of things in test.
Beef chicken breakfast items it looks like that was a big benefit unexpected benefit and it looks like your -- it was from gain on sales of restaurant businesses in Europe and Canada.
Curious is this something that is also going through 2013 as far as maybe more of a contributor as I think it was basically a third of the contribution to the EBIT expansion year-over-year in dollar terms.
And then this sort of goes into the – also it – along with those lines below the line for your guidance for ’13 I’m just curious have you changed your position Pete as far as the technology expense it appeared as though entire costs you were saying ’13 was going to be flat with ’12 that wasn’t going to be a source of leverage and now there are some number shifting.
Is technology going to be more of a weight on G&amp;A? I guess this is just going to help us all understand Matt.
A lot wrapped in there.
Other operating and – that number is we – its I don’t want to say its hard to predict but it does depend on transactions and activities around the markets around the world.
The primary source of that as you pointed out was refranchising in Canada a couple of markets in Europe and China.
And so specifically China that was a combination of about four DL transactions and some conventional franchising.
That activity will continue in 2013 as well as some limited refranchising some of the other markets but it's hard to give an exact prediction on where that number is going to be.<br><br>Regarding technology let me clarify.
So when we first started 2012 we indicated that we expected about a $100 million of incremental spending about half of which was going to be related to the Olympics in the convention and half of which was related to technology.
And that going into 2013 we did not expect the extent of growth in the technology to be the same in 2013 as it was in 2012.
And part of what we’re experiencing here Matt is as we scale back some of that spending in 2012; we’re now by default having some additional spending in 2013.
On top of a slight acceleration in the pace of NewPOS rollout and some of that spending that we did – that we made in 2012 and prior was capitalized on the balance sheet and results in additional amortization expense.
So it is up slightly in 2013 but because of those two issues and not because of a change in strategy.
And as Don mentioned in his remarks regarding the 6% to 7% we don’t give annual guidance Jeff.
Thanks for the question.
Relative to pacing of change across the barbell we've got -- and again I mentioned we need – we have a solid value platform.
We just needed to talk about it and make sure that it was top of mind for consumers and I think we’ve begun to do that and reiterated our position there.
What we’ve got to do is make sure we have that other side of the barbell and that’s the entrée side of the barbell and ensure that that is going to be – we have new entrée news in beef and chicken across the year.
I will also say that we’ve got to make sure that we’re talking about our beverages.
We've done quite a bit on the McCafe line-up to ensure that this is a viable growth vehicle for us into the future.
So you will see more news about that.
And lastly you’ll see some news about breakfast thanks.
Just along those lines basically the way that I’d try to explain this to you is that we looked at the overall value expenditures those that were spend on extra value menu and those spend on dollar menu.
If you took the composite of those two and then you look at the fourth quarter – you’re not going to see something that was substantially different in terms of our media expenditures what we did was we shifted the allocation to Dollar Menu rather than the allocation being an Extra Value Menu.
That's the biggest difference there.
Our next question is Sara Senatore from Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you.
Actually I do want to follow up on the question on the Dollar Menu comment.
Basically you're going more towards value.
Obviously we've seen mixed results in some of your markets.
I mean I think there was a comment about how Japan – the fact that ticket was really under pressure Australia was obviously more successful with that.
Is there -- I guess could you help calibrate why that might be the case and in the US would you expect to see as you get more innovation on value and more marketing spend would you expect to see that pressure on average checks like you did in Japan? Sara just to clarify we don't expect to have a tremendous amount of innovation around bringing a lot of new products into the Dollar Menu unless they're going to be favorable from a profitability or margin perspective.
So when you saw the Grilled Onion Cheddar Burger that helped us in terms of the overall offset of margin.
So I wouldn't look to see a lot of new Dollar Menu-based products.
What we want to see is a stronger balance relative to the entree-based products.
So that's what's happening in the US.
It is not going to be -- and as I've also heard that we are focusing more on Dollar Menu.
Yes more on Dollar Menu but not more on the overall value perspective.
The expenditures are similar but we are focusing on a core equity that we have.
Relative to Japan that's a slightly different strategy.
I'll let Tim talk a little about what we've done in Japan.
In Japan Sara coming off some intense promotional activities we had in celebration of the 40th anniversary of going into Japan.
We're trying to get away from a lot of the couponing they were doing.
It's been flooding the whole marketplace from all of the IEO industry to be more strategic and more of a branded value.
So we've got a little growing pains there right now but we think it's the best for the brand.
We're seeing it resonate with our core products and again we're still gaining in our market share.
So yeah we have a little tough time going through this next couple of months but we think long-term it's the way to reset our business.
Your next question is from Nicole Miller Regan from Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering if we could shift the conversation over to the human capital angle because you've talked a lot about the marketing and menu tactics and strategies.
With some of the shifts that you have had in the past year or so at the executive level would you look at this as an inflection point and what changes do you think could be a result of those new dynamics? Thank you.
Hi Nicole.
I'm going to assume Nicole you're talking about the shift that we had in the U.S.
in leadership relative to Jeff Stratton and Jan Fields.
One of the things I'd say first and foremost is Jan was a solid leader for us at McDonald's and did an outstanding job in the U.S.
business.
When we looked at the results and where we wanted to take the business we made a decision to move forward and make a leadership change.
Jeff Stratton is a seasoned veteran with McDonald's.
One of the things that Jeff brings is a global exposure relative to markets around the world and some of the things that they have done quite differently to enhance things like our menu pipeline.
Jeff also brings a lot of operations experience as he was the head of our Restaurant Solutions Group relative to our capacity and productivity in the restaurants.
And so the change that we made was a change that we saw as most appropriate for our business and we needed to be able to continue to move forward.
I think his relationships with the franchisees is very solid as Jeff at one point was one of the divisional presidents in the U.S.
and so he set the ground running with collaborating with the operators our marketing changes and enhancements that we made going into the next year and we feel very good about the prospects of where we're headed in the U.S.
business.
All right.
And our final question will be from John Ivankoe from JPMorgan.
Great.
Hi thanks.
I'll make this quick.
On the US the rate of unit development in 2013 where specifically are you seeing that opportunity and I guess the question is would there be some cannibalization that could happen as you locate close to existing restaurants of is it the fact that you haven't grown in 10 years more or less but there's a lot of trade areas where you simply haven't touched and there is opportunity for completely new sales generation? And then – and secondly how much would moving to a developmental licensing structure in China allow unit – or will – introducing more developmental licensees I should say John.
Tim will talk about DL opportunities just on the new development aspect.
As we look at opportunities around the U.S.
and we do have opportunities around the U.S.
and we’re able to cite those through some of the proprietary software that we have and also our field visits.
We understand we have opportunities.
But also take into account that we’re not going in and establishing a target of X number of restaurants must be built.
We’re building to real opportunities.
We’re not going back to days when we wanted to just build 400 500 restaurants regardless.
That’s not something that we will ever do again John.
And so when it comes to impact on existing restaurants we really evaluate the net system sales positive effect of any new site that we’ll open up.
We want to make sure it is accretive to overall system cash flow accretive to franchisee cash flow so that’s one of the things that we guard against and we look to minimize any kind of same-store impact that we might have.<br><br>Relative to DL John I know we’ve spoke on this several times before.
We will continue to move our portfolio towards a franchising in China.
It’s taken us years to build up that inventory.
As we’ve stated before our goal is to be anywhere between 20% and 25% franchised by 2015.
We will continue to use the DL concept its working very well for us.
As far as putting a number on how many additional restaurants it takes them a while to get used to our business as well and as we’ve learned the right way on just developing a real estate it takes some time for them to be comfortable with their area.
So I don’t have a number on that but we will continue to move not only with developmental licensee I really just want to thank all of you for joining us today.
I also want to acknowledge the recent passing of our Honorary Chairman and our first grill man Fred Turner.
We as McDonald’s have been so fortunate that Fred Turner chose to dedicate his talents and his foresight to our great brand and we pay the greatest tribute to Fred as we continue to deliver a consistent QSC experience to our 69 million customers each and every day.<br><br>The fundamental strength of our global business remains solid.
As we continue to make the right strategic decisions to mitigate short-term pressures in these challenging times.
I’m confident that we’ll continue to grow our global market share which is very important while delivering enduring profitable growth for the system and our shareholders.<br><br>Our McDonald’s system of franchise supplier partners and company employees are very well aligned as we execute our plan to win and long-term strategies to drive growth and we’ll do that by optimizing the menu.
We’ll modernize the customer experience and broaden accessibility around the world.
So thanks again for joining us today Hello and welcome to McDonald's April 19 2013 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today's presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Chris Stent Senior Director of Investor Relations from McDonald's Corporation.
Mr.
Stent you may begin.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson; and Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen.
In addition Chief Operating Officer Tim Fenton will join us for Q&amp;A.
Today’s conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone that as always the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available on www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Don.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Despite mixed first quarter performance McDonald's remains a daily destination for our 69 million customers around the world.
The talented teams leading our business in 119 markets around the world continue to leverage their deep experience in a variety of operating environment.
Our strong system alignment has enabled us to remain focused on serving great tasting food and beverages in contemporary restaurants and at an affordable price because that's what matters most to our customers.
These strengths combined with our diverse portfolio in terms of geography menu and across day parts enable us to build for the future while we remain focused on delivering in the short-term.
The challenging economic environment in which we're operating impacted our first quarter results.
While there are mixed signs of a slow recovery in the U.S.
significant headwinds persist as consumer confidence continues to waver.
Persistently high unemployment rates and ongoing austerity measures in Europe and soft macroeconomic conditions in APMEA are pressuring consumer purchasing power as well.
And the informal eating out industry is either flat or declining in many markets around the world.
Year-to-date March our global comparable sales were down 1%.
This reflects comparisons against strong prior year results that include an additional day due to leap year and last year’s favorable weather.
Operating income was flat in constant currencies and EPS was $1.26 a 3% increase in constant currencies.
While not unexpected we are not satisfied with our first quarter results.
Even though our top line comparables will ease through the remainder of the year macroeconomic pressures will continue and we’ve also seen new challenges emerge in the marketplace like softer retail sales in the U.S.
and the avian influenza outbreak in Asia.
So as we begin the second quarter April global comparable sales are expected to be slightly negative.
However I am confident that we have the right plans in place to strengthen our business momentum for the long-term.
We know we can’t control the external environment in which we’re operating but we can leverage our scale and strength to aggressively pursue opportunities within our three global growth priorities to optimize our menu modernize the customer experience and broaden accessibility to brand McDonald’s around the world.
As I share an update on our performance by geography I’ll provide examples that illustrate how local markets are executing their plans within the framework of our plan to win and these three global growth priorities.
You’ll also see in some cases that we continue to make adjustments to generate the greatest impact in the current environment and drive long-term growth.
Let’s start with the U.S.
where comparable sales for the quarter were down 1.2% amidst the challenging eating out environment and operating income declined 3%.
While our comparable sales were negative we outperformed the competitive set and increased market share.
This reflects our ability to continue differentiating our brand despite declines in IEO category.
We continue to compliment Dollar Menu value news with a focus on core favorites and innovative new products.
In addition to our annual focus on Filet-O-Fish during the Lenten season we expanded the McBites platform to include Fish McBites.
Throughout the year we will feature even more compelling new products in the United States especially in our four key growth categories of chicken premium beef breakfast and beverages.
For example Premium McWraps a great innovation from Europe that we’ve begun to scale globally; Egg White Delight a tasty lower calorie addition to our breakfast line-up and Blueberry Pomegranate Smoothies which originated in Canada are three delicious new additions that position us to continue growing sales and market share in the second quarter.
In Europe comparable sales were down 1.1% for the quarter and operating income was up 1% in constant currencies.
Results in Germany and France remain soft while the UK and Russia continue to deliver.
Across the region we’re focused on building market share by reinforcing our value platform to offer compelling affordable products across all day parts and multiple price tiers.
We build on that foundation by featuring premium products and promotions that encourage trade up and higher average check.
France launched Casse-Croute sandwich and drink combo for €4.50.
It drove strong performance during the lunch day part by enabling us to compete with local bakeries through an appealing offer below the €5.00 price point.
In Germany the €1.00 beef or chicken western burgers complemented (inaudible) and Stars of America promotional food events to contribute to results.
Germany continues to refine its value offers across day parts in an effort to strengthen value perceptions for consumers who remain price sensitive in this challenging economic environment.
And in the UK successful food events featuring premium products continued to resonate with our customers in this largely reimage marketplace.
This past quarter promotions included the limited addition Deli Choices featuring the Cajun Crispy Chicken Sandwich.
We also launched Chicken McBites in January as part of the UK tasters’ menu.
This limited time offer further validates the global appeal of this great product outside of Australia and the United States.
Russia also continues to deliver solid results with its focus on breakfast and seasonal menu offerings that emphasize local taste including spicy wraps and spicy rolls.
While both the UK and Russia posted positive comparable sales for the first quarter and continued to grow market share momentum in both markets has slowed relative to strong results in 2012.
This is the effect of weaken consumer confidence in the UK and lower levels of inflation in Russia that limit our pricing power.
Now let’s shift over to Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa where comparable sales were down 3.3% for the quarter while operating income increased 2% in constant currencies.
We remain focused on aggressively driving top line performance and growing market share through continued emphasis on our value platforms by accelerating growth at breakfast and by enhancing service and convenience initiatives.
Breakfast remains a significant growth opportunity for us in APMEA.
Today a large percentage of the Asian population eats breakfast away from home.
But our breakfast sales as a percentage of full day sales are only 11%.
That’s less than half the U.S.
average of 25% which tells us the breakfast represents a significant growth opportunity in this region.
As part of a year long focus to get more consumers to think of McDonald's as a morning destination 30 countries across APMEA participated in a National Breakfast Day promotion on March 18.
5 000 restaurants gave away 5 million of our great tasting and nutritious Egg McMuffins and we significantly increased awareness and trial for our breakfast products.
Let’s turn to APMEA’s big three markets starting with Australia.
Our focused efforts to balance value initiatives with promotional activities that encourage trade-up positively contributed to first quarter results.
Monopoly which returned to Australia after a 13-year hiatus drove Extra Value Meal sales and encouraged add-on purchases with game pieces strategically placed on drinks fries and deserts.
Japan’s performance for the quarter was negatively impacted by the difficult economy a declining IEO industry and ongoing consumer sensitivity to prices and promotions.
Japan continues to evaluate and adjust its plans to complement existing value initiatives with new product news that drives long-term profitable sales and guest counts.
For example January’s national Big Mac campaign resonated well with customers and was another step in our journey to rebalance our core menu pricing and promotion strategies.
In China comparable sales decreased 4.6% for the quarter in part due to the residual effects of consumer sensitivity around the supply chain issue in the chicken industry.
Even though our supply chain was not implicated.
A diverse menu across multiple day parts menu offerings and price tiers enables us to offer a broad variety of affordable choices which is especially critical in the current environment across Asia.
During the quarter limited time offers including the Mashed Potato Beef Burger and the Sausage Double Beef Burger positively contributed to performance.
We’re also complementing our new-menu news in China with meaningful efforts to make McDonald's even more accessible to our customers.
We continue to strategically add new restaurants with a focus on Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities where we’re best able to effectively leverage our scale and our marketing strength.
Throughout APMEA we are expanding our presence by building on the potential that exist in our brand extensions especially delivery kiosk mid-café and drive-through.
As of March about 50% of our restaurants are opened 24 hours and almost 20% offer delivery service to our customers.
As we continue to build on our firm foundation in every area of the world our commitment to financial discipline has not wavered.
We have a healthy balance sheet the highest credit rating in the industry and a robust business that generated $7 billion in cash from operations last year.
Our philosophy regarding the use of cash remains unchanged.
Our first priority is to reinvest in the business to capitalize on our long-term growth opportunities.
These include strategically developing new restaurants in certain markets modernizing our restaurants so they’re move relevant and appealing to our customers and investing in initiatives like multiple order points or mobile ordering that increase the capacity and the convenience of our existing restaurant.
After reinvesting in the business our second use of cash is our dividend.
Our third and final use of cash is share repurchases.
In the first quarter we returned $1.1 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In closing we recognize the challenges inherent in the macroeconomic environment and do not expect to see any significant improvements in the short-term.
And while comparisons will ease as we move through the year it is not likely that the global IEO industry will improve dramatically.
This will continue to pressure our performance.
Now more than ever we remain focused on those areas within our control to grow market share and drive future performance.
We know what we need to do and we are determined to keep getting better and sharing ideas scaling proven successes and moving even more quickly to bring winning solutions to markets around the world.
I remain confident in our business.
Our system alignment our strategies the actions we are taking position us well to successfully navigate this environment in the near-term while profitably managing the business for the long-term.
Thank you and with that I’ll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
The pursuit of long-term profitable growth permeates the McDonald’s system and guides our actions from the way we staff our restaurants to the investments we make in infrastructure and technology to build capacity to the strategic decisions we make around menu offerings pricing and promotions.
We entered the year aware of the challenges we’d face when we don’t do that as in the first quarter our margins are significantly impacted.
The good news is that we have competed effectively in environments like this before.
For now it is the market share battle and we are determined to continue making the necessary adjustments to maintain and grow our share because that is how we will win over the long-term.
There is no single solution for driving sustained growth in value creation; rather we are pushing forward on multiple fronts guided by the three global growth priorities under our plan to win.
The adjustments are beginning to take hold.
In the first quarter we outperformed the IEO industry in several key markets including the U.S.
as Don noted earlier.
With 81% of our global restaurants franchise our profitability is driven primarily by top line sales.
The total system life sales increased 2% in constant currencies persistent expense pressures and negative comparable sales contributed to a 50 basis point decline in first quarter combined operating margin to 29.5%.
The largest driver of operating income continues to be our franchise margins which rose $25 million to nearly $1.8 billion a 2% constant currency increase.
Consolidated franchise margin percent declined 60 basis points to 81.7% due to higher cost and negative comparable sales.
Global company-operated margin dollars declined $58 million to $719 million for the quarter a 7% decrease in constant currencies.
The margin percent decreased 130 basis points to 16.2% as average check growth was more than offset by higher labor occupancy and other operating costs.
We expect margins to continue to be pressured throughout 2013 though margin decline to be less pronounced as sales comparison ease in upcoming quarters.
In the U.S.
company operating margins declined 140 basis points to 17.4% primarily due to higher labor and other operating expenses.
First quarter commodity costs were relatively flat.
We expect increased cost pressure the rest of the year with a full-year increase in our U.S.
grocery basket expected to be 1.5% to 2.5%.
In terms of pricing the U.S.
entered the first quarter at about 1.5%.
during the quarter we’ve replaced about half of the 120 basis points of prior year price increases that rolled off.
We will continue to closely manage our pricing decisions to maintain our value proposition as we strive to grow traffic and market share.
For the full-year food away from home is projected to increase 2.5% to 3.5% while food at home inflation is projected to be about 50 basis points higher.
For the trailing 12 months ended March 31 food away from home was up 2.3% while food at home was up only 1%.
Turning to Europe company-operated margins decreased 80 basis points to 16.7% due to higher labor and commodity costs and increased depreciation related to reimaging.
The UK and Russia together account for almost half of Europe’s total company-operated margin dollars.
Europe’s grocery bill was up about 2.5% in the quarter.
We expect a similar increase in second quarter with the full-year increase now projected to be 2.5% to 3.5% slightly lower than our estimate in January.
Across Europe the average price increase at the end of first quarter excluding Russia was about 1.5%.
The sluggish macro economic environment coupled with the soft IEO market will limit our pricing power for the balance of the year.
In Asia/Pacific Middle East and Africa company-operated margins declined 230 basis points to 14.6% due to the acceleration of new restaurant openings mainly in China along with higher labor occupancy and other costs throughout the segment.
There is a heightened scrutiny around the quality of new store openings ensuring that we are doing everything we can to optimize new store margins in this key growth segment.
G&amp;A for the quarter increased modestly and was in line with our expectations.
We are on track for full year G&amp;A to increase about 2% to 3% in constant currencies so there will be some variability between quarters.
As indicated in January the first quarter included a non-recurring tax benefit of nearly $50 million resulting in a tax rate of 30%.
Our full year guidance remains at 31% to 33% which implies the effective tax rate will likely be at the higher end of this range in subsequent quarters.
We remain committed to generating strong returns and enhancing long-term shareholder value through a balanced approach to growth driving sales increases at existing restaurants and adding profitable new units.
We continue to exercise discipline as we allocate capital and make steady progress toward our global growth priority of modernizing the customer experience through our reimaging efforts.
We expect to reimage more than 1 600 restaurants this year including about 800 in the U.S.
450 in Europe and 225 in APMEA.
Through first quarter we have completed about 250 reimages globally.
In addition we expect to complete about 200 rebuilds in the U.S.
this year.
Opening new units is part of our global growth priority to broaden accessibility to our brand.
We focus on strategically growing at select number of markets to have a significant potential and can generate attractive returns over the long-term.
We are on track to open between 1 500 and 1 600 new restaurants this year including about 500 an affiliated and developmental license markets.
Lastly let me touch on foreign currency translation which negatively impacted first quarter results by $0.01.
At current rates which reflect the recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar we expect second quarter EPS to be minimally impacted with a full-year negative impact of $0.01 to $0.02.
As you know this is directional guidance only because rates will change as we move throughout 2013.
The external challenges we face in 2013 are in many ways similar to last year low consumer confidence in shrinking disposable income negatively impacting consumer demand coupled with continued pressure across many expense categories.
We believe we have made the appropriate adjustments to fortify our near-term performance and we remain diligent about monitoring the environment and making further adjustments as we move throughout the year.
I’m confident in the future of our great brand.
McDonald's has increasingly modern restaurants in outstanding locations around the world.
Best-in-class franchisees and suppliers and dedicated company employees all aligned to drive long-term enduring profitable growth for our system and shareholders.
Thanks.
Now I’ll turn over to Chris to begin our Q&amp;A.
Thanks Pete.
I will now open the call for analyst and investor questions.
(Operator Instructions) The first question is from David Palmer of UBS.
Good morning guys.
Two part question on Europe.
You described there was a slowing going on in that market how are you – can you just generally describe how your marketing plans are this year? How are you going to adjust this sluggish environment? I recall last summer as you are getting closer to the end of this curve at least on the interiors in Europe would you consider or are you thinking about refranchising that market further to be maybe more or like the U.S.? Thanks very much.
Hi David and good morning to you.
There are several different points I guess in your question there.
First of all what have we done in Europe? Last year we began to talk about a couple of the markets that we felt we needed to have additional focus on those markets in being France and Germany.
We talked about the fact that the southern division of Europe was really going through tough macroeconomies and that remains the same today.
However what we have done is in the market of France we have changed and fortified our value offerings.
We talked about Casse-Croute this morning.
They solidified Petit Plaisirs.
They’ve done several things and that's why we’re gaining share in France.
If you look at the southern division the southern division as a market which includes Spain and Italy and Portugal those markets are also gaining share.
So we have been performing – we’re performing well relative to the overall marketplace.
However it is very soft consumer confidence there.
Relative to refranchising what we have continued to do as we always do is look at our overall company-operated portfolio and determine whether or not we have opportunities to continue to improve that first or we have opportunities in terms of leveraging G&amp;A leveraging scale improving overall operational efficiency by refranchising.
We have one market; we continue to look at some of that in which is the UK.
But the other markets we feel fairly good about the way that the portfolio is stacked up at this point in time.
Okay.
Next question is from Joe Buckley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Can you talk about your comments like gaining share in the first quarter particularly the U.S.
what you think the gap between your comp number and the QSR sector might have been? And then extend that into April I guess the April sales commentary is a little bit more surprising given the easier comparison.
So could you talk about factors that you think are influencing the April sales number? All right Joe.
I think we’ll talk probably a couple of different things.
One it will be from a U.S.
perspective and the other is really a global perspective.
In the U.S.
if you look at our comparisons to the overall competitive set we’ve outperformed the competition by about 1.4%.
That's the comp gap.
And so we and that’s the overall competitive set.
So we feel again that the things that we have begun to do to bring energy to the marketplace in both food and value.
They are solidified they are in place.
Having said that and we normally don’t talk about weather at all but we know in the month of April last quarter – the first quarter of last year we saw very favorable weather.
Matter of fact it was the best weather that we had seen in 118 years the first quarter through March of last year.
This year what we’re seeing in the month of or the first quarter was some tough weather.
We also in April clearly we’re seeing some differences in weather.
So we have to be cognizant of that.
We won’t use weather as an excuse because next year we don’t want to use it we’re going to be comping up against it.
But the reality of it is we have seen some things in weather that are there.
We still feel like from a competitive set we’re going to perform well and our marketing plans and our food – and food promotions actually are really solid.
We have brought better food news and stronger value to the marketplace.
Next question is from Keith Siegner of Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up on that question a little bit thinking through the headline global April outlook and how some of these issues in China and other parts of Asia might be factoring in.
I mean there’s a big information kind of vacuum right now about what’s actually going on in China with chicken and other counties that might be really influencing that.
If you could talk a little bit about what might you actually be seeing there and how that plays into the preliminary global April outlook? That would be very helpful.
Thank you.
All right Keith.
I’m going to ask Tim Fenton to talk a little bit about China because as we talk about global our overall global sales in terms of April there are somethings that have been emerging pieces that we’ve seen that we had not seen before.
One of those is avian influenza and I’ll ask Tim to kind to give a little update on that and maybe even talk just a little bit about.
We’re coming out of one thing which was the chicken industry and issues around antibiotics and now we have a different piece which is broader in impact which is avian influenza.
And so that does bear on our global sales as we look forward into April.
So Tim if you would?  Sure Keith good morning.
Yes on China as we stated we had a sales decline of 4.6% in the first quarter going up against a tough first quarter last year as far as high comp but definitely we saw a switch out of chicken consumption.
Fortunately we do have other proteins that we were able to shift people into but as we were coming out of it and gaining some traction obviously came the avian influenza which we’ve been there before unfortunately and it not only has had an impact on China it does have a potential impact on a lot of APMEA not just China.
But again we continue to move on the different proteins that we have with beef and fish and as course breakfast in McCafe but we’re moving with it.
We’re doing what we have.
We’re continuing to look at what we do in the restaurants from a food safety and with our suppliers and we’ve been there before and we’ll continue to move forward with our plan.
Next question Matt DiFrisco of Lazard.
Thank you.
I guess just touching on some of those food promotions Don you were talking about earlier relative to prior years I guess a lot of people have looked at in the success of your beverage product it had multiple years and sustainability and the impressiveness of lapping big comps and putting up big comps on top of that.
Are you seeing the same I guess in this environment of more food promotional it seems like they are a little bit more of an LTO-ish type environment or a sense that you’re not maybe holding the comp as much are they.
Are you happy with that as far as how long you are – that you’re holding the lift from those new introductions such as the Fish Bites and some of the Premium Chicken Wraps? Matt great question.
I think two different parts here one is the LTO strategy and the other is those things that might become platforms and continue to be part of our course.
So if you look at McWraps McWraps for us is not a limited time offer promotion it is one of those things that will be a platform for McDonald's as we move forward.
It’s been that way in Europe and performed well.
We are we feel that the performance at these early stages in the U.S.
has met the expectations that we have and so we are feeling fairly good about that.
I continue to say and I hedge a little bit on my comments about we continue to feel great about it because let’s keep in mind we’re still facing a slow recovery in United States from an overall economic perspective.
And as we look across Europe we still have high unemployment rates and higher austerity measures but in the U.S.
that is a platform.
Something a little different Fish McBites that’s a limited time offer so we’ll have that come in and go out.
When you talk about beverages we will continue to post in beverage products that remind our customers of the overall beverage line up.
So when we say blueberry-pomegranate as a smoothie flavor we’re also saying that we’re going to remind customers of pineapple-mango and strawberry-banana.
So we’ll continue to do that and do it more aggressively this year than we did last year.
Next question is from Michael Kelter of Goldman Sachs.
So your restaurant level margins now appear to be on pace for their third straight year of declines in all three divisions in the U.S.
in Europe and in Asia.
And so I guess there are two parts to my question on that point.
The first is what are the specific things you are doing to turn that around or is it really just waiting for same-store sales to get better? And second how the franchisees reacted to declining profit margins at the restaurants?  Michael it’s Pete.
As we‘ve always talked that for us margins are much more of a top line gain.
So driving comps is critical to driving those margins.
And in this environment where you continue to have the cost pressures so commodities will be up labor rates are going up et cetera and yet you have soft economics declining to flat eating-out markets that battle for market share becomes so critical to the long-term health of the business that we’re willing to sacrifice a little bit of margin to maintain that traffic and grow the market share.
So in this environment that’s how we’re going to continue to go after that and around the world we’re generally aligned with our franchisees around that.
They understand the importance of driving traffic in this environment and taking market share because again if the industry isn’t growing taking market share means we’re taking guests from other restaurants.
And in that environment that is what we have to do to continue to win.
Would we love higher margin? Yes.
Would they love higher cash flow? Yes but in this environment guest count growth and market share growth are critical.
Next question is from John Glass with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Pete just and as you think about last year and this year to the point that it’s a tougher environment earnings growth is slower margins are under pressure.
One of the things you have is a balance sheet that’s historically been very strong in the cash flow which you’re using but can you just reexamine what are the likelihood of you using this very low rate environment to increase leverage maybe without even changing your credit metrics in other words maybe the rates are just low enough that you’re going to add debt without changing your interest expense? And secondarily can you talk about maybe rethinking with the credit metrics you look at or the appropriate given this environment maybe you’d like to extend that.
If you could just maybe help us understand what is the credit metric you look and you manage to and then secondarily if you’re willing to reexamine that? John that’s a great question.
One of the things we’ve always talked about is the importance of maintaining our A credit rating.
So you aren’t going to get into the specific measures that underlie that but as we look at our role at the franchise or that financial strength is critical for us and you’re aware of our business model being co-invested with our franchisees and part of that three legged stool is a critical piece for us.
So that credit rating is important and we feel the alignment created by maintaining that strong credit rating in our financial health is more valuable to shareholders than some kind of one-time leverage event would be.
That being said as you’ve noticed each of the last few years we continue to augment our free cash flow return to shareholders by increasing the debt on our balance sheet.
And we will continue to do that again this year but my guess is that it’ll probably be at a level below what we added last year.
Next question is from David Tarantino of Robert W.
Baird.
Hi good morning.
Just a follow-up on all the margin commentary and the pressures that you’re seeing; Pete could you give us an idea of what type of comp would be needed to hold on to either the restaurant margins or the EBIT – companywide EBIT margin for this year and maybe talk a little bit about how the greater emphasis on value is maybe changing or not changing that equation? Yeah David.
We’ve historically said 2% to 3% comp would allow us to hold margin and we’ve kind of said that’s in a normal environment.
And we’ve defined that as being commodity cost in that 2% to 3% range but also getting half of that growth from average check and half of that growth from guest count.
So when you’re in an environment today where we are going from more of the sales growth is coming from guest counts than it is from check growth that puts pressure on that equation.
And we are seeing other cost increases in the labor line additional deprecation et cetera that are – that weren’t in our normal environment kind of calculation which obviously points to a higher than 2% to 3% comp in this environment to maintain or grow the margins.
David just another point keep in mind please too also that the value aspect of our menu is still in the range of 10% to 15%.
So we haven’t seen some huge upsurge relative to the mix of value-based products.
The reason that you’ve heard us talk so much about product mix and new food news is because one of the things that we are doing around the world is ensuring that we have promotional food and new food that also is accretive to overall cash flow in the restaurants.
And that also helps us quite a bit and that helps us to move average check.
A challenge that we have and we talked about in our earlier comments is the fact that if inflation is not as high we don't have as much pricing power.
And so when you think about the overall margin clearly it's still demand which we focus on the demand base it’s still the average check components pricing is a little softer in terms of what we can take and it's been the trade-up aspects which is why we focus on the new menu aspects in our core in those larger sandwiches.
So we are managing all of that and Tim is ensuring that around the world those things are part of our plans.
Next question is from Will Slabaugh of Stephens.
Yeah thanks guys.
I had a question on the product pipeline and you mentioned a couple of items you rolled out recently.
I wanted to just more broadly how you describe your pipeline now in terms of breadth of products and then also in the length of the timeline for rolling them out versus last year and then also maybe versus historically if you would? Thank you.
I would – and I’ll ask Tim to also comment about some of the things that he’s seeing in some of the product pipelines around the world.
I would tell you today our product pipeline is more robust from a global perspective and the other aspect of this is we are moving products around the world at a much quicker pace which is also evidence of one of the questions earlier about limited time offers.
It may appear that we have more of those only because you’re seeing some of the new food news that’s been coming from different markets around the world.
But there are several products and platforms and product areas that we have felt – we feel like we’re in a pretty strong place with continue to develop but Tim maybe some of the things you’ve seen across Europe and now in the U.S.
Sure.
One of the strategies we’ve had is to really all the new products coming in 2013 to have at least 40% to 50% of them coming form our existing new product pipeline.
Great products travel well across different borders and I think a good example is the McWraps right now that are going in the U.S.
of course to go in in Canada shortly.
You compare second quarter of this year in the U.S.
the last year we’ve got a very robust product line with the McWraps the Blueberry Pomegranate Smoothie coming in.
But we’re also seeing smoothies travel across the system in test in many countries in APMEA as well as in Europe.
So I think overall our overall product development we’re doing more with existing products we had in different countries and really scaling those and we’re finding out that great products travel real easily across different country borders.
Next question is from Brian Bittner of Oppenheimer.
Thanks.
This is Mike Tamas on for Brian.
Just have a follow-up on an earlier question.
Can you just talk about the food margin kind of going forward? Should we expect the same kind of leverage that we saw this quarter or since inflation is going to pick up a little bit in the out quarters versus 1Q which did actually look like a little deleverage here? Thanks.
Hey Mike it’s Pete.
In my remarks I addressed that.
We don’t typically give margin forecast.
But we think the decline of a 130 basis points in this first quarter is about as bad as it could get this year and that subsequent quarters we should see declines in our debt severe.
Next question is from Jeff Bernstein at Barclays.
Inc.</strong> Great thank you very much.
Just two actual follow-ups on answers you previously gave.
One I was just wondering Pete you talked about kind of the balance sheet and taking on incremental debt over the past couple of years.
I’m just wondering how you think about the balance of the dividend versus the share repo.
It seems like dividend is higher up on the hierarchy.
So I’m wondering why whether that’s considered to boost up significantly.
And then the other follow-up was just the market share comment you guys made in terms of the U.S.
I'm wondering if you can lay that in terms of how it looks in Europe.
It sounds like UK and Russia might be slowing a little bit.
We know Germany and France is already slow.
So I’m just wondering whether your peers are suffering more than you or how you look at the gap between yourselves and them? Thanks.
Jeff regarding the use of cash nothing has changed in our philosophy.
So after we invest in the business when you talk about our credit metrics one of the rating agencies looks at that dividend as a fixed commitment.
So as we continue to increase that dividend that’s kind of added to our existing credit on our balance sheet which is one of the things that they limit to our rating in one of the agency’s models.
All right Jeff relative to market share if you looked at our top seven markets we are slack to growing share in six of the seven.
So and this is something that we feel and again I hesitate to use the word comfortable because we’re not comfortable with our results.
But we feel that the plans are appropriate that our markets have put in place.
And so we have actually been trending positively relative to gaining market share around the world and we know our plans are stronger in 2013.
Next question is from Jeff Omohundro of Davenport.
Thanks.
I just wondered if you could discuss the domestic reimaging program both in terms results versus expectations and the pacing of the reimage program.
Does this macro environment impact franchisee’s receptivity to it? How do you think about that to the balance of the year? Yeah Jeff we think we’re going to do about another 800 reimages this year in the U.S.
That will as of the end of the year – as of the end of the quarter here we’ve got about roughly 40% of the U.S.
done interiors and exteriors.
And that 800 that we have in the pipeline this year those are committed signed up deals that we have in the pipeline.
So we have a pretty good line of visibility into that.
And while again to my earlier comments we’d love to see margins growing and sales growing at a faster rate.
But these reimage decisions are longer term business building decisions and not an individual quarter or two type decision.
So we can’t turn them on and turn them off on a dime and I think it’s important that we continue to make progress on those.
And Jeff this is Tim.
Four weeks ago the U.S.
just had their Combined Manager and Operator Rally.
They have it every other year out in Vegas where we have – you bring together over 18 000 owner-operators and managers and staff.
I attended one of those and I can tell you that the interest and the energy on reimaging is as high as it’s ever been.
A lot of positive comments a lot of momentum going into it so nothing is – the energy has not waned off at all if anything it’s moving forward.
Next question is from Jason West of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</strong> Yeah thanks guys.
Just going back to the question around the IEO markets around the world I just want to understand the commentary.
Are you guys saying that you’ve seen another leg down in sort of the overall macro in certain places like the UK and Russia or is it just sort of stabilized at a low level if you could talk a bit more about the trend there? And then when do we lap kind of the slowdown that we saw last year? Has that happened yet in some of your core markets or is that really something that we haven’t lapped yet and we could get to that maybe May June timeframe?  Hi Jason.
Just a couple of pieces on the IEO.
So if you’re looking at overall IEO projections in terms of 2013 of those same seven markets that I talked about four out of those seven markets are contracting.
When you expand that outside of the top seven markets into to say the top 20 markets you have another host of markets that are flat or contracting.
So we’ve got quite a few markets there where we see the IEO not growing at what we would consider to be an aggressive pace or a more healthy pace.
Even those that are growing typically are growing maybe in the 1 percentile range.
And so IEO has been soft in terms of growth.
Having said that we realize that our growth is going to come from taking market share and our plans whether they’d be value based whether they’d be new product based the operational execution satisfying the needs of customers each and everyday opening up our operating hours and windows all of those things are fashioned at us capturing more market share.
Next question is from Andy Barish of Jefferies Hey guys a quick question just trying to get a sense of recent trends.
It seemed as if mix was negative and then if you kind of look at the first quarter numbers where you talked about negative traffic and pricing of roughly 0.5 or maybe a little bit more it seems like mix was flat to maybe even a little bit positive even with the reemphasized value focus.
Is there something that’s changed here or something additional that I’m missing?  Andy it’s Pete.
The mix across kind of all of the three major geographies was down slightly in the first quarter.
So we had as you indicated we had the price which was positive we had a slight drag from mix and the slight drag from the guest counts.
Next question is from Mitch Speiser of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Great thanks very much.
And I just want to ask a question about the global high yield market whether it’s the top ten markets that you’re in or the top 20.
When we think about it is it just truly cyclical as the reason why it’s flat to declining? Could you may be talk about if there is any structural issues as well? It just seems like eating out it seems to be what people do as economies improve.
Yes the economies are soft but if there is any competitive issues or any structural issues that are limiting the global eating out market from growing? Thanks.
Hi Mitch.
I don’t know if I would call them structural.
I will call them basically just human behavior and consumer behavior.
consumer confidence is down in many of the markets around the world.
And as a result when consumer confidence is down clearly then discretionary spending is typically down.
And so when we look at whether it’d be again the U.S.
with slower recovery if we look at the last retail sales reports that we had those being softer GDP revisions around the world across Europe still high unemployment rates across Europe particularly teen unemployment rates many of these things are the reasons that as we went through last year we talked about trying to solidify value messages last year so that as we came into this year we would not see further erosion to Pete’s point earlier.
Having said that we still need top line basically to help us deliver in terms of the margin as Pete pointed out earlier.
But there’s nothing structural I would say it’s just consumer confidence is softer.
The only that is outside of that is when you look across APMEA and you look at 60% to 70% of our consumers in that geography favor chicken as a protein particularly in markets like China and Japan some of those Asian markets.
And you have scares like avian influenza or antibiotic issues and food safety issues; then clearly that impacts our business.
but those are shorter-term impacts; they’re not structural as well.
So I think what we’re faced with is whether or not overall local economies and macroeconomies will start to trend better.
When that begins to happen we’re in a good position to benefit from it.
Next question is from Jeff Farmer of Wells Fargo.
Great thanks.
Sorry to do this but I did want to take another crack at margins.
It looks like the U.S.
has seen something like three consecutive quarters of I guess roughly a 140 basis points of pressure.
I’m just curious what color you can provide on the pressure resulting from things like the heightened focus on promoting values softer same-store sales even the commodity and labor pressure.
And I guess the alternate question here is which of those three have had the greatest influence on that margin pressure? Yes.
as Don alluded to this earlier the value component of our sales in the U.S.
continues to be at a relatively similar position.
So it’s not as if our Dollar Menu percentage has gone from 13% to 14% to 20%.
It has remained relatively stable.
What you do see sometimes in these softer economic environments is a little bit in the mix.
So I mentioned the product mix was slightly negative to the sales.
But we do have a fixed cost base in there that if you aren’t generating the comparable sales the fixed cost from our management labor from our depreciation from our third-party rent that obviously is impacted.
And if you look through the categories there is not one of those expense categories that particularly jumps out as being so much more significantly larger than any of the others.
So across all of those kind of categories I mentioned 10 to 20 basis point impact when they’re all going in the same direction because you can’t leverage the comps that’s where you get the larger pressure.
And Jeff if you – going back to Pete’s comments earlier relative to price he mentioned that one of the price increases from last year at about 120 basis points came off.
We replaced that with about 60 basis points.
The reason for that is because consumers are very sensitive to price.
And so we don’t have the inflationary environment or the consumer sentiment environment to go out and take the same kind of price increases that historically we did.
We do believe that this is not a structural kind of a change.
We think that it is based upon the economy at this point.
The second point I’d make is when we think about trade-off things like McWraps products like McWraps thus far in the month of April and as we’ve launched this product we’ve been driving awareness.
So you’ve seen a lot of things in the marketplace with $2 McWraps and different things to try to get those in the hands and mouths of customers.
As we move forward it goes to the full price which is in the $4 range.
So while we may not get the same unit movement we will have and see a little bit better margin on that product.
So these are all other things that go in a hopper as we continue to manage both margins and also sales success without having guest count erosion.
Next question is from John Ivankoe of JPMorgan.
Hi thank you.
Just that I think a slightly different take in what’s been a pretty consistent theme overall margins.
There is a really interesting sentence actually in basically the front of your press release that says the U.S.
is focused on menu and convenience initiatives to drive sales and restaurant profitability.
And it’s that restaurant profitability piece that I think is interesting because it almost suggests that that you’re planning on growing restaurant profitability in 2013 in the U.S.
while increasing attention on the Dollar Menu and especially increasing attention on the Dollar Menu with some of your competitor have by that definition backed off.
So that’s something that I want to get a sense of is did franchisees push back on you saying that the 2012 store level cash flow is something that they don’t want to see go down anymore it’s kind of the first point.
And then secondly just thinking about from a company store perspective from a McOpCo perspective do you think 2013 is a year of investment on the consumer to allow margins to go down willingly or should we expect at the end of the year that restaurant profitability can actually be up? I’ll ask Pete to touch based on both points relative to the cash flows and also just the overall notion on restaurant profitability.
Yes.
John actually in 2012 owner-operator cash flow was up in the U.S.
So this is not – what we try to convey with that kind of was the fact that while yes it is a market share battle out there and we know that growing traffic in that environment is very important.
And we know that price sensitivity is a little greater.
At the end of the day we’ve got a line-up of products over the summer and the rest of the year that have the potential to improve where we are relative to the first quarter.
So again in my remarks I said that while the margin declined to 130 basis points in the first quarter we expect as move throughout the year that the decline should be less severe that in part is driven by the expectation also that the sales comparison get easier.
So implying that we expect because of the sales comparison is easing we’ll get a little bit more of that top line leverage.
And we’re not at a point where we’re going to say that we’re going to get enough leverage to actually kind of grow the margins but it’s still going to continue to be a market share battle and we feel good as Don said about our product line-ups and our ability to drive some more sales.
And John this is Tim.
Just to add with the new products coming with wraps and beverage and breakfast all higher margins for us as well as focus on beef going on for the second half of the year all higher margin products.
Next question is from Sara Senatore of Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you.
Just a two follow-ups if I may.
One is on the top line and it was something I think that Pete just said about the idea that improving trends against easier comparisons.
We didn’t really see that in April even though comparisons I think are substantially easier than in March.
And I guess I wanted to talk about when you’re framing that in that context.
So I guess what I’m hearing is that comparisons get easier we wouldn’t expect to see sort of a symmetrical bounce back versus last year but maybe just some incremental improvements sequentially.
I just wanted to clarify that outlook.
And then the second follow-up was on China.
Some other margin pressure in APMEA obviously is coming from new unit growth in China.
I would have thought with the push towards more developmental license and franchising that we would – that that would diminish is that a reasonable expectation going forward or is that drag going to persist for a while? Hi Sara I’ll take the shot at the first part and then Pete will answer you at the second part of your question.
So relative to April here’s the things that we’re seeing out there.
We understand the existing issues that have been there.
We understand the slower recoveries I mentioned earlier.
we understand some of the more consistent macroeconomic pressures that pressure consumer confidence.
So as we rolled through the first quarter and as we move into April we expect some of the high comps that we have we’re rolling across those.
So on that end we feel better about the overall environment moving forward.
Having said that those macroeconomic pressures still persist and we’re seeing emerging issues that pop up things like again we mentioned avian influenza.
We’re continuing to see some of the unemployment levels that have continued to increase.
Some of the economies are worsening a bit i.e.
France I mean they’re seeing the worst economy since World War II.
So we’re seeing certain aspects that are worsening a little bit.
What does it mean for us? It simply means that the exact plans that we have today we have to focus on those and focus even harder and we’ve got those inherent in the plans that we have around the world.
So we see some positives that are occurring.
We see some potential negatives that are occurring and ours is just to continue to emphasize the plans that we have in place to be able to continue to drive consumers or bring consumers into restaurant and drive business performance forward.
And Sara regarding the new store margins and our franchisees we only have 151 of our restaurants franchised in China so compared to our base of over 1 700.
So it’s less than 10% of our restaurants that are franchised there.
So while yes directionally that is a positive it’s still relative to the base not going to be a significant driver.
But as I mentioned there is a lot of work going on around what is the optimal cost to operate those new restaurants.
So as we look at the investment levels making sure that we’re sizing the investment for the current sales opportunity yet leaving the flexibility there to build for future demand as those trade areas grow.
So that it’s getting a lot of focus and attention and as we as you know with comps being negative in the quarter that is a continued drag not only on the new stores but on all the stores there.
We have time for one more question which will be from R.
J.
Hottovy of Morningstar.
Thanks guys.
Just wanted to ask a quick question about APMEA and specifically Japan.
Really in your mind what will it take to get that market turnaround especially now that we’re lapping about two years of negative results in the territory as well as some reports of some price increases in the region just wanted to get a sense of your outlook for Japan in particular? Yeah.
This is Tim R.J.
First of all Japan has been one of our most difficult IEO markets as far as negative IEO.
We took it on as a special projects just going and really evaluating and segmenting our business.
We have revamped our value campaigns our product lines and actually have seen a good trending force is trending up in the last couple of months is you’ll read soon.
As far as the pricing I think what you may have read and it was a little bit taken out of context.
We are adjusting some prices on our value menu if you will bringing up a hamburger and a cheeseburger at the same time balancing out and bringing down the price of regular fry and some other products.
I think the overall price increase and we haven’t taken a price increase since 2008 was just a little over a 1% blended.
But a very difficult market we are encouraged what we’re seeing as of late on changing some of the trajectory of the business.
All right.
we’re about out of time.
So I’ll turn it over to Don who has a few closing comments.
Well thanks everyone again for participating with us this morning.
And as we wrap up the call again really want to appreciate the questions and your thoughts and support of the business.
We remain committed to our long-term strategies as we make thoughtful and strategic decisions to mitigate what we hopefully have informed you of relative to short-term pressures in these challenging times.
Notwithstanding these pressures we’re experiencing today we remain very confident in our future.
We have defensible competitive advantages a resilient business model and the alignment across our owner-operator suppliers and the company teams to drive enduring and profitable growth for the long-term for our system and our shareholders despite some of the challenges that are being represented and we see around the world.
So we remain confident and again thanks for your participation this morning.
And have a great day everyone.
Hello and welcome to McDonald’s July 22 2013 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald’s Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today’s presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
(Operator Instructions) I’d now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald’s Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson; and Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen.
In addition Chief Operating Officer Tim Fenton is here Q&amp;A.
Today’s conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay via the phone webcast and podcast.
And before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone that as always the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available at our website www.investor.mcdonalds.com as a reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today’s call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Don.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
I’d like to begin by briefly framing our performance using three lenses.
The past the present and the future.
First the past because it provides perspective and guides our present and future.
Throughout McDonald’s history we respectively grown both the top and the bottom lines to varying degrees across a variety of economic and competitive cycles.
We have an iconic brand an outstanding system of owner-operators suppliers and employees and superb real estate locations in nearly every market around the world.
This provides a solid foundation from which we operate.
Second the present.
In second quarter we grew revenues operating income and earnings per share despite the ongoing impact of the challenging environment.
This is truly a testament to the fortitude and resilience of our system our sustainable competitive advantages and the collective focus on execution at our restaurants.
And third the future.
We expect the dynamics of this cycle should persist in the near-term namely flat to declining informal eating out markets increasingly less ability to take price cost pressures throughout our P&amp;L and heightened competitive activity.
Our second quarter results tells story consistent with these lenses.
Global comparable sales were up 1% operating income was up 3% and constant currencies and earnings per share was $1.38 a 6% increase in constant currencies.
And as we begin the third quarter global comparable sales are expected to be relatively flat in July.
Based on our recent sales trends our results for the rest of the year are expected to remain challenged.
We remain committed to the plan to winning our three global growth priorities to optimize our menu modernize the customer experience and to broaden accessibility to brand McDonald’s around the world.
This customer centric plan enables us to deliver an appealing experience by offering great tasting affordable food and beverages and clean and modern restaurants.
At the same time we are diligently implementing thoughtful adjustments to our proven strategies and solutions when and where needed.
This flexibility has enabled us to maintain or grow market share in most of our major markets around the world.
Let's review ours results in every geographic business units starting with the United States where comparable sales for the quarter were up 1% and operating income was flat.
We continue to appeal to our customers with an increased emphasis on new news across our menu and an ongoing focus on everyday affordable value.
The Dollar Menu remains a foundational component of our strategy to consistently deliver value across the menu rather than implementing aggressive short-term discounting tactics.
At the same time our focus on enhancing core classics and offering additional premium products continues to provide customers with even more variety and choices across day parts and price points.
This quarter we introduce new items across all four key growth categories chicken beef breakfast and beverages.
Premium McWraps launched in April the Blueberry Pomegranate Smoothie and Egg White Delight debuted in May and last month we added fresh new taste to our Quarter Pounder Burgers with three new flavorful recipes Bacon Habanero Ranch Lettuce Tomato Deluxe and Bacon &amp; Cheese.
From a comparable sales standpoint these new menu additions individually met or exceeded targeted performance levels.
However softer IEO environment and comparisons against prior-year promotion with chicken and beverage activity offset the sales driven by the new menu news.
And while June comparable sales were slightly negative in the U.S.
we continued to outpace the competitive set.
In June I met with our leadership franchisees while they were in Oak Brook for one of their regularly scheduled meetings.
While the challenges of operating a small business today are many it is clear that we’re aligned and focused on what's most important and that's the customer.
It’s that commitment to remaining customer centric along with the assertive plans and vision we have in place that enables all three legs of the McDonald’s system to grow sales and profitability for the long-term.
Let's shift to Europe where comparable sales were down 10 basis points for the quarter and operating income was up 5% in constant currencies.
The U.K.
and Russia continued to deliver positive results while weak performance in Germany and France persist.
The U.K.’s business remains solid.
Second-quarter results and continued market share growth were driven by a balanced focus across value core new products and promotional offers.
The U.K.
launch blended ice beverages in June just in time to satisfy customers craving for something cool and refreshing during the summer months.
The lineup includes two delicious fruit smoothies strawberry and banana and mango and pineapple and a line of frappes including Carmel and Iced Mocha.
Inspired by the U.S.
these new products expand the overall beverage lineup and further validate blended ice as a proven system solution that can be deployed across markets worldwide.
Russia also delivered positive performance for the quarter on top of last year's strong results.
In addition to a focus on the Big Mac two seasonal premium offerings The Royal Cheeseburger and The Big Tasty with Bacon contributed to Russia's performance and demonstrated the strong ongoing appeal of our brand in this growth market.
We expect the lower inflationary environment in Russia to continue dampening our pricing power pressuring near-term sales momentum compared to last year.
Moving over to France comparable sales and guest count performance remained negative as the recession continues to pressure the informal eating out industry.
However we’re growing market share by balancing value and premium products across the menu.
For example France recently added two new recipes to the popular Casse-Croute entrée and drink combo.
They contributed to market share growth during the lunch day part.
This value offer was complemented by a strong focus on two premium beef burgers Le M and Le 280.
In Germany negative comparable sales and traffic trends persist.
Our traffic has declined at a faster rate than the IEO industry which also continues to contract.
It’s critical that our initiatives resonate with consumers in this environment and in this marketplace.
So to re-establish our momentum we are leveraging recent consumer insights and continuing to adjust our plans.
Let’s shift to Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa or APMEA.
Comparable sales were down 30 basis points for the quarter and operating income increased 3% in constant currencies.
Although market share improved in China Australia and Japan comparable sales were negative for our big three markets.
Positive performance in other markets like South Africa Singapore and South Korea partially mitigated the overall segment’s decline.
Markets across APMEA are taking a holistic approach to stimulating demand.
Across day parts they are offering limited time and innovative products alongside established price value platforms.
In Australia we continued to grow market share by balancing our focus on the core with new product introductions and promotional activities.
Strong performance in 2012 including the launch of our Loose Change menu along with external pressures in 2013 from lower levels of consumer spending and heightened competitive activity have contributed to weaker performance.
In Japan consumers remain extremely price sensitive.
Comparable sales have been positive the last two months and we continue to grow share by leveraging limited time offerings like the Chicken Teritama and sharing options such as the Mega Potato to keep customers coming back to our restaurants and to build our average check.
In China comparable sales were down 6.1% for the second quarter reflecting the negative impact from avian influenza which continues to dissipate.
We remain focused on leveraging promotional activities to showcase the diversity of our menu beyond chicken and strengthening our connection with customers through our ongoing brand trust campaign that focuses on the quality and the safety of our food.
We remain confident in our ability to drive future performance in China.
Going forward comprehensive plans for our key growth areas particularly beverages the family business and the late night day part remain our top priorities.
Around the world and across our system we are focused on ensuring our strategies and tactics resonate with customers.
That's the key the key to our performance today and for the long term.
As I mentioned earlier our market teams continue to strategically and thoughtfully adjust their plans in response to local consumer dynamics and growth opportunities.
At the same time we remain committed to prudently investing our capital and resources in those initiatives that will further differentiate us from the competition for the long term.
We're broadening accessibility by adding new restaurants we're modernizing our existing restaurants with reimages and remodels and we continue to deploy technology and convenience initiatives.
As our predominantly franchised business model continues to generate significant levels of cash our priorities regarding the use of cash have not changed.
After investing in our business we're committed to returning all free cash flow to shareholders over the long term first through dividends and then through share repurchases.
For the second quarter we returned $1.2 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
In closing I want to reiterate my confidence in our business and in the growth opportunities that exist.
We are diligently focused on executing the proven strategies within our plan to win.
We have a resilient business model an aligned and talented system and an experienced management team.
We're leveraging these strengths and making deliberate continued progress toward winning this battle for market share and fortifying our position as our customers' favorite place and way to eat and drink.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
McDonald's continued to grow revenues and net income in second quarter within the challenging global environment.
The system remains focused on executing our strategies to become even more relevant to the 69 million customers we serve every day.
We continue to adjust our tactics where prudent and are committed to optimizing those factors within our control.
Our financial results for the second quarter reflect these efforts to strengthen near-term performance while continuing to build our business for the long term.
For the six months ended June system-wide sales increased 3% in constant currencies due to expansion.
Combined operating margin declined 30 basis points to 30.3% over that same period primarily due to lower restaurant margin percentages.
We are primarily a franchisor with 81% of our global restaurants operated by local businessmen and women.
Consolidated franchise margins contribute approximately 70% of our restaurant profits.
This stable predictable income stream benefits from comparable sales growth and is more insulated from inflationary and other cost pressures.
For the quarter each area of the world contributed to franchise margin dollars growing 4% in constant currencies to more than $1.9 billion.
The margin percent declined 40 basis points to 82.8% as positive comparable sales were more than offset by higher occupancy expenses.
Global company-operated margin dollars declined 1% in constant currencies to $842 million for the quarter.
The margin percent decreased 50 basis points to 17.7% as higher labor commodity and other costs more than offset slightly positive comparable sales.
The margin pressures for the quarter were most acute in the U.S.
and APMEA while Europe grew its McOpCo margin.
In the U.S.
second quarter company-operated margins declined 110 basis points to 18.7% due to higher labor occupancy and other operating costs.
The McDonald's system is effectively managing commodity expenses with cost up about 1% in second quarter.
The full year outlook for the increase in our U.S.
grocery basket remains at 1.5% to 2.5%.
The U.S.
has been deliberate regarding pricing seeking to remain below the food-away-from-home inflation index of 2.2%.
Another relevant data point is Food At Home index which is up only 0.9% somewhat limiting our pricing power.
At the end of June our U.S.
price increase was 1.5% which is about 120 basis points less than one year ago.
As we move through the second half of the year we will consider future price increases balancing our desire to grow traffic and market share amidst the reality of higher input costs.
In addition to pricing we're employing more suggestive selling strategies at the order point to encourage trials new products and add-on purchases.
As Don mentioned it's a market share battle so we're employing a variety of strategies and tactics to grow traffic and increase relevance to our consumers.
Turning now to Europe company-operated margins were probably the biggest positive of the quarter as they increased 10 basis points to 19.4%.
Europe's McOpCo margins benefited from the significant contribution from the UK and Russia our two strongest performing markets in the region who contribute nearly half of the segments company-operated margin dollars.
In addition France and other markets realized labor productivity gains as part of their overall efforts to control costs and enhance efficiencies within the restaurants.
Commodities increased about 2% for the quarter and for the full year Europe's projected increase is now slightly lower at 2% to 3%.
Europe is a collection of 39 markets so our price increases vary by market with Russia at the higher end due to its inflation albeit a little less than a year ago and all other markets averaging about 1.5% year-over-year.
Similar to the U.S.
we have less pricing power in 2013 versus a year ago.
In addition given the economic environment in nearly all of our markets we're balancing a stronger emphasis on value with compelling premium products to effectively manage average check and margins.
We have a strong underlying business in Europe and we believe we are making the right strategic decisions and value investments to protect and grow the band over the long term.
In Asia-Pacific Middle East and Africa company-operated margins for the quarter decreased 100 basis points to 14.3% due to new restaurant openings mainly in China along with higher labor costs throughout the segment.
To a lesser extent avian influenza impacted our sales and margins in second quarter but our team work hard to manage expenses and other controllables to mitigate some of the negative impact.
G&amp;A discipline remains an area of focus.
We seek to grow sales and revenues faster than our G&amp;A spend.
Year-to-date G&amp;A as a percent of revenues was 8.8% versus 9% a year ago which included our biennial Worldwide Convention.
For the full-year as part of our ongoing efforts we have reduced our G&amp;A spend and now expect it to be relatively flat versus the prior-year due in part to lower incentive compensation and efficiencies we have identified.
The growth in revenues and operating income within our franchise business model translates into significant generation of cash.
As Don reiterated our first priority for this cash remains reinvesting in our business to drive future growth and returns.
In light of the current environment we have trimmed our 2013 capital expenditure forecast by $100 million to about $3.1 billion.
Although we will open about 50 fewer sites we believe this is prudent given the short-term pressures.
More importantly it will not undermine our long-term growth potential and the quality and returns of our new restaurants remain very solid.
The remainder of our capital is being invested in existing restaurants in part through reimaging more than 1 600 location’s we’re making steady progress in our efforts to modernize our brand with about 50% of our exteriors and about 60% of our interiors on a global basis reflecting the current contemporary look.
In the U.S.
this year we will touch about 10% of our traditional brief standing portfolio through a combination of reimaging rebuild and new restaurants this will put us close to the 50% mark.
Within the next year a U.S.
customer more often than us will experience our brand in a more modern and relevant manner than before.
We’re excited about the potential that this brings to our largest market.
Lastly let me touch on foreign currency translation which negatively impacted second quarter results by $0.02 more than originally forecasted as several currencies weakened against the U.S.
dollar during the quarter.
At current exchange rates we expect a negative impact of $0.01 to $0.02 on third quarter EPS with a full-year negative impact of $0.07 to $0.09.
As usual though please take this as directional guidance only because rates will continue to change as we progress throughout the second half of the year.
Despite flat to declining and formal eating out markets around the world McDonald’s grew revenue operating income and earnings per share in second quarter.
Our results underscore the solid performance the solid platform from which we are operating.
A unique franchise business model that harnesses the entrepreneurial spirit of local businessmen and women will operate approximately 28 000 of our nearly 35 000 restaurants around the world.
The powerful alignment of our system around the strategies and key growth priorities that have allowed us to maintain or grow our industry leading market share in most of our major markets and a strong financial foundation that allows us to invest for the future while making prudent decisions to deliver near term performance.
We remain confident in our brand and the competitive advantages of our system which we believe will continue to drive positive results over the long-term.
Thanks.
Now I’ll turn it over to Kathy to begin our Q&amp;A.
Thanks Pete.
I am going to open the call now for analyst and investor questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Joe Buckley from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
I’d like to ask a question maybe a multiple-part question on U.S.
sales.
So you commented on the U.S.
second quarter performance being better than the QSR sector as a whole.
Could you quantify what you think the QSR sector did for the quarter and was that also true in the month of June for U.S.
performance versus IEO and maybe in conjunction with that just talk about pulling monopoly forward kicking it off this week just the rationale behind that decision? Hi Joe this is Dan.
Thanks so much for the question and I’ll try to address some of the points that you made and you can -- if there’s anything we missed you let us know but -- if we look overall in the U.S.
it looks like and I’ll speak from an informal eating out perspective.
It appears that we gained about 10 basis points in the informal eating out category relative to traffic.
So we know that the things that we’ve put in place are definitely having some impact and it also speaks to some of the things that took place relative to our focus on new products.
And so again looking at the U.S.
we know that this year we were lapping some of the implementations of some of the beverage strategies from last year which launched a little bit earlier Cherry Berry Chiller.
We also know there was a frappe launch earlier in the year.
We also had 20 piece nuggets that were launched last year.
The great thing for us is that the products that we’ve implemented in the chicken breakfast beverages and beef category being Egg White Delight Blueberry Pomegranate the wraps the Quarter Pounders those things have performed well and met or exceeded the targeted sales but again some of the offsets that Pete and I mentioned are some of the reasons that sales are softer aside from the fact that the informal eating out category is projected to be down about 50 basis points.
So we know that we put things in place to address that in the U.S.
and we have outperformed the competition.
We do know that we’ve outperformed them on a year-to-date basis from a comparable sales performance by a little bit over 1%.
All right.
Our next question is from Jason West from Deutsche.
Inc.</strong> Yeah thanks.
I guess just one that you guys didn’t touch on there was around the Monopoly pull forward if you could touch on that and then just bigger picture the comments in the press release and in your prepared remarks about a challenging environment over the rest of the year I don’t think you guys normally talk about the forward outlook quite this much so I am just wondering what are your thoughts kind of what's changed since the April call and would we be considering kind of challenges meaning kind of flat comps continuing over the next several months is that the kind of message that you’re trying to send? Thanks.
Thanks Jason.
As you know we don’t give -- we’re not giving out guidance that’s not our practice.
We do expect the remainder of 2013 to remain challenged based on existing top and bottom line pressures.
We know we’re seeing ongoing global economic headwinds.
We’re seeing flatter declining IEO markets and ongoing competition chasing fewer guest counts as a result of a less and discretionary spending.
We also know that this is a more price sensitive timeframe based on these economies and we still have ongoing P&amp;L pressures including higher labor and commodity costs and we have less ability to take that price.
So relative to those things that’s kind of the -- if you would the framework around the comments that we made we continue to believe the long-term the average annual financial targets that we put in place are achievable and appropriate.
We do know however in the near term that we’re going to face some tough economies around the world and the informal eating out industry is softer around the world and a matter of fact 7 out of -- 11 out of our top markets we’re seeing contraction from an IEO perspective.
And Jason regarding Monopoly that was a decision last fall when the U.S.
was looking at their calendar and looking at the product launch lineup thinking about how do we follow-up the introduction of these great new products with a way to continue the momentum and we know that Monopoly is always a great transaction driver and these new products are prominently featured in the Monopoly promotions so following those product launches up with Monopoly it seemed like a very prudent thing to do.
Our next question is from John Glass from Morgan Stanley.
Hi thanks very much.
Following up on the U.S.
Don when you see the IEO market in the U.S.
what definition do you use for that? It seems to me I recall that you use a broader definition than just a quick service hamburger market; and if that’s the case could any of the weakness be described by or explained by some of your near-end competitors doing better? And secondly what is the dynamic in the U.S.? Is the low-end customer still there but the high end maybe moved off and maybe they’re not taking you up on some of the higher end offers what's the dynamic underneath the weakness in comps? All right and thanks for the question John.
First of all the definition we use is really more of a protocol is CREST.
CREST is the information that we use relative to our informal eating out data and they are fairly broad data base to your point.
So we look at the overall informal eating out industry that is what helps us whether it would be identifying opportunities or looking at who may or may not be doing as well in the industry at that point in time.
So it really is a good barometer of the overall marketplace that QSR segment is a little bit – it's a little bit more I don't want to call it myopic but it's a much smaller view of the overall marketplace.
So as we've looked at that that's how we know that the overall marketplace was going to drop by about 50 basis points.
Now the interesting thing about IEO is that QSR makes up the vast majority of IEO.
And so when you hear us talk about IEO we are talking in a large part also about the QSR industry.
As we look forward and if you look at who's winning who's not winning in the marketplace we do know that we've gained market share we know there are a couple of other players that have gained market share.
And what we do is we continue to look at our performance relative to the categories of growth which I mentioned earlier which were chicken beverages breakfast and then we also look at the premium beef category which is why you saw it implement the Quarter Pounder line with the three different recipes which is why you've seen us leverage our beverage strategy which we still have some opportunities to leverage that to an even greater extent.
And so we're going to continue to do that.
But when you look across our product implementations this year they have hit each of the growth categories and so we feel fairly good.
Those products have met or exceeded the expectations we had.
As I mentioned we did see some offset based upon last year's promotional activity particularly around 20 Piece Nuggets and in some of our beverage strategies.
Okay.
Our next question is from Keith Siegner from Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
If I could just ask another U.S.
question kind of more broadly thinking about the IEO market it seems like a lot of the disappointment say versus our expectations at least on this side have come from IEO market disappointment.
If you think through the fact that you've got food at home now running significantly below total food away from home even though you're running below food away from home in terms of pricing I guess what I'm asking is is the setup that the food away from home industry might be pricing a little too aggressively in a low inflation environment? How do you think about the relative share trends across IEO versus food at home? Thanks.
Hi Keith.
I'm going to let Pete talk a little bit about what's taking place and relative to our own pricing.
What I would tell you and I mentioned it in my comments one thing we do see in the broader industry is we're seeing a lot of discounting price discounting rather than consistent value platforms which we have around the globe and we've put in place and we're going to maintain that consistency because it's important to consumers.
We know that but we have seen a lot of I'll say sporadic price discounting across the marketplace.
But relative to what we've done and how we've seen pricing I'll ask Pete to make some comments.
Yeah Keith one of the things I mentioned we're up about 1.5 in pricing in the U.S.
on a trailing 12-month basis.
That's 120 basis points below where we were a year ago.
It's clearly one of the factors that is contributing to comps maybe being not as strong as some would think.
When we look at the dynamics at food away from home it's up 2.5%; food at home up only 0.9%.
That's on a trailing 12-month basis through June so comparable to our 1.5% price increase.
But for the full year both food away from home and food at home are currently projected to be up 2.5% to 3.5% each.
So what will be interesting we will definitely be looking at those as we move throughout the year and making decisions about what we're going to do with price for the remainder of the year but as you point out to the extent that food at home continues to be at a significantly lower growth rate the grocery store is a competitor and that does impact the industry's ability to pass on price.
Okay.
Our next question is from Brian Bittner from Oppenheimer.
Thank you.
A bright spot in the quarter was the profit growth in Europe.
You had a slightly negative comp and you're able to somewhat increase the McOpCo margins there.
So can you explain how that's possible? How did that happen? And is that sustainable if we have continued weak flattish type comps over in Europe going forward? Hi Brian.
This is Don.
I'm going to ask Tim to make some comments about Europe and productivity.
I know he's made quite a few business to the marketplace there relative to what we're doing in McOpCo and how we're focused on our margins there and the profitability and productivity aspects of the business.
Tim? Brian first of all as Pete mentioned the UK and Russia have been two of our best performing countries in Europe which represent almost 50% of our company-operated margins.
But in spite of – along with that the team has really done a great job of fine-tuning their P&amp;L efficiencies particularly in labor scheduling and food cost controls so they've done a very good job on scheduling efficiencies and just working those through the P&amp;L so we're very happy with the progress they've made.
All right.
Our next question is from Matt DiFrisco from Lazard.
Thank you.
I guess just looking at the guidance and the end of the 8K there you talk about G&amp;A.
It looks like it's a little bit of a change from previous where you were 2% to 3% constant currency growth now you're flat.
I was wondering what came out of that? Is it simply just a lower outlook brings about lower compensation or is there – some of the technology spend that you did last year that you thought was going to continue at the same pace have you been able to save money or you're deferring that to '14? Thanks.
Matt it's really a combination of factors.
Obviously the technology spend we think is an important long-term differentiator for us and a lot of that is in the restaurants.
So we're appropriately pacing that.
There's other areas that we look at for efficiencies in terms of spending.
And then finally as you mentioned lower performance will yield lower incentive comp and so there's a lower outlook for that as well.
So it's a combination of all of those.
All right.
Our next question is from Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thank you.
Just two quick follow-ups.
First as we look at the European business seems like economists are getting a little bit more bullish on the European economy and like people are calling for bottoming in the middle of '13 and recovery starting late in '13.
So being that you get to service all those markets across Europe I'm just wondering on the trends you see within the data how would you size up the pace or do you feel confident a likelihood of recovery seem like France and Germany would need to improve before perhaps the UK and or Russia slows I'm just wondering how you'd size it up based on the data you're seeing? And the follow-up is just – I mean the quality of comments you guys gave for the rest of the – the remainder of the year being challenged.
I'm just wondering because you said fairly.
A couple of times I know you mentioned that you still grew revenues operating income and earnings in the second quarter and in the first quarter as well.
I'm just wondering if that's a reasonable assumption for the back half of the year or would that dynamic change? Thanks.
Hi Jeff.
Just a little bit maybe on the European economy and then as we talk about challenges for the rest of the year.
First of the all European economy I can give you a perspective.
All of us travel quite a bit to our markets.
I don't know – the economists may be a bit ahead of themselves.
That's my personal perspective but it's based upon the fact that if you look at GDP growth even quarter one versus year ago or even as you roll into quarter two France is still in a recession two quarters now that we've seen negative GDP growth.
We had Germany which is negative in GDP growth.
Spain is still suffering.
From an unemployment perspective you've got much higher unemployment than the norm across Europe.
Youth unemployment is something that is somewhat alarming whether it be in France at 26% Spain at 57%.
You've got markets – I was recently in Portugal and Ireland you got markets some markets may have bottomed out.
I would tell you some of the larger markets are still having some challenges.
So we're looking forward to the bottom out so to speak and then a resurgence.
At times you'll see a resurgence in some of the markets.
Europe for us means 39 different areas and countries that we're working in but it is a – it's still a challenged environment.
The wonderful thing for us and I call it a wonderful thing because if we weren't focused on having implemented the value platforms when we did about a year ago we would've lost more traffic.
At this stage of the game we are continuing to gain market share across the majority of European countries and that is the position we wanted to be in.
Solidify market share solidify customer visits those things then we know lead to – with business you can get sales with sales you can get profitability but you have to have the sales coming in the front door.
And so for us right now Europe is still a big challenge.
As we look across the rest of the year the notion – when we made the comment about challenge it is similar to the second quarter.
So as we see third and fourth quarters we see them similar to the second quarter where we still see the ability for us to continue to move the business forward however they are challenging environments and you know we don’t give guidance but we’re just really being as transparent as we’ve always been relative to what we see in the market places.
All right.
Next question is from David Tarantino from Baird.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
My question is on the CapEx guidance revision and I just wonder philosophically why the need to turn the CapEx for this year and you mentioned that you wanted to be conservative with that even though the returns on those investments look good.
So I’m just wondering what is going on on that line and what you might be seeing that’s giving you a pause there? David it's really only about 50 openings that we trim from the guidance.
So to your point new restaurant openings are our highest returning investments and the new openings over the last 12 months are no exception to that they have generally being performing well.
With the exception probably of China where with the chicken issues in China and the slower economic growth there that is the biggest of all of the markets contributing to the 50 store decline.
So they took a hard look at their inventory some of the sites they’re pushing off to the future are open.
And if you think about our opening cycle there is 12 to 24 months from the time we identify a site until we go to ground break so that’s a lot of time for the market dynamics to shift around a little bit.
So we’re just fine tuning around the edges some of the inventory and not making any dramatic changes to our outlook for our new restaurant openings or our overall CapEx spend.
Next question is from Mitch Speiser from Buckingham.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thanks very much and considering the U.S.
the Company operated margin decline of 110 bips.
Can you perhaps try and parse that out between cost pressures and promotional activity? Yeah Mitch.
Pricing – being down 120 basis points in pricing is probably the single biggest contributor to the margin weakness there but we had pressure across a lot of the lines in the P&amp;L.
So without that extra pricing wage rates little lower efficiency we threw a lot of new products at the restaurants this quarter.
So our efficiency per crew hour was down a little bit.
We had additional depreciation from reimages that continue and we had the increased additional advertising and promotional cost from the new product.
So we had on the cost side these incremental pressures that were not overcome by a stronger comp.
Our next question is from Michael Kelter from Goldman.
Yeah I guess with all respect throughout the economy being tough ultimately between the focus on value messaging and the new products that you’re saying you’re all hitting targets realistically it's just not moving the needle for you in this environment.
So I guess my question is; what do you need to do to adjust? Essentially other than the economy getting better what are you going to do differently to get more people in the doors in the next 6 to 12 months? Hi Michael this is Don.
First point and I want to reiterate it.
We’re winning in the market place.
When we look at market share across our major markets we are gaining market share and that’s an important factor here.
So if you ask what do we need to do to adjust? I think we need to continue to adjust.
We’ve been adjusting now for about the last couple of years relative to making sure we had solid value platforms.
We’ve ensured that we have a good mix of value and premium based products so we can gain as much margin as possible.
What we don’t have and Pete just mentioned it is we don’t have as much pricing power.
And as long as inflationary rates are lower and as long as GDP growth and consumer discretionary spending is softer we’re not going to move forward and take a lot of price because we know that it would mean guest count erosion longer term.
So we’ll be mindful of the price increases that we take.
We’ll continue to make sure that our value platforms are installed and strong.
We’ll make sure that we have a very solid menu pipeline which has helped us to as you see in the U.S.
to outperform the competition in mass and so when we look at what we’re doing now we think those are the right things to do.
Pete mentioned growing the business and developing new sites.
Our new sites are performing relatively well and so we’re going to continue to invest capital there.
The returns on reimage sites when you have less comparable sales that gets a little bit tight and we’ll continue to monitor that to Pete’s point is we always do from a financially responsible perspective but good pipelines good value good marketing campaigns those things will continue.
As I mentioned we’ll continue to invest in technology and we think we do still have some room to grow relative to some of the things we can offer our consumers from an engagement perspective there and we’ll continue to make sure we have good marketing spend good awareness relative to our advertising.
So we’re going to continue doing those things and implement those solidly.
We’ll continue focusing on the growth strategies we’ve talked about.
There is room to grow in beverages and in chicken and in breakfast and we’re moving breakfast around the globe.
So all of these pieces are the things that for us we still have a lot of work to do at McDonald’s and we’ll continue to focus on those areas.
Next question is from Jeff Farmer Wells Fargo.
Don I just want to get a better read on your view of the U.S.
consumer.
It looks like obviously both quick service and casual dining consumers in the U.S.
are pulling back on spending pretty dramatically in June and July.
So from what you’re seeing with your own customers what are some of the key economic drivers on the more conservative behavior and what I mean is just more specially the last couple of months it seems like a line has been drawn in the sand consumers have definitely stayed away from pretty much all forms of restaurants or at least cut down on their occasions I mean again just curious what your view is on what's going on? Hi Jeff a great question and the way you positioned it is accurate as we’ve seen it.
We have not drawn a direct correlation as if yet the sequestration or other I’ll say tactical executions that have occurred in the U.S.
what we do know is that there was a pullback to some extent and it does seem to be impacting the informal eating out industry a little bit more or so than broader retail.
So again what we have to do is make sure that we institute and continue to have solid value and we have to do that by balancing and also with some innovative new news this is going to be absolutely critical for us as we move forward.
We have to continue to invest in the business appropriately but make sure we’re mindful of the returns.
I don’t foresee this changing in the next couple of months which is why we spoke of the rest of the year being challenging.
And what we see in the United States is not unlike what we see in some of the other markets that are out there.
Having said that we feel pretty solid about the fact that we can continue to gain market share and that our focus.
And if we can do that we’ll gain additional guest counts we’ll gain additional sales and we’ll gain additional profitability.
The pricing piece that Pete mentioned again is going to be tougher through the rest of the year in terms of taking price.
So we’ll be monitoring that and measuring that relative to our margins.
But again the market place itself is a little bit -- it is a little bit tighter than we’ve seen.
But one thing we’ve never done at McDonald’s we don’t cry or whine over market conditions because all of us are in the same market conditions.
So we just have to stay focused on what we do best which is move the business in the way as we’ve discussed today.
Next question is from Andy Barish Jefferies.
Hey guys one quick follow-up and then one new area.
Just in terms of the monopoly shift does that open up the October window for a new product platform potentially here and then just on the new front on franchise margins they continue to slip a little bit; is that purely a function of getting comp back into solidly positive territory to see return or should we expect some of the higher D&amp;A and occupancy to continue to weigh at least near term on franchise margins? Hey Andy I’m going to let Tim make a comment relative to monopoly.
I think he’ll make a pretty solid point about whether or not it opens up another opportunity clearly we can speak to specifics but he just finished one of the reviews with the U.S.
business so he can give you a couple of headlines as to some of the things I discussed.
Relative to franchise margins we’ll have Pete make a comment on that after Tim.
Okay well Andy I can’t say specifically on what products we have coming in but we have a pretty robust fourth quarter -- third and fourth quarter coming down the pike.
And as far as monopoly we moved it in as everyone has stated already and really take advantage of the food traffic that we do have in our third quarter.
So product’s coming can’t get specific on it.
Andy you point out the franchise margins they are compared in the capital margins.
They're even more sensitive to the comp because the base of cost is more fixed.
So the depreciation and the rents are really – we really need a stronger comp to start to get that percentage to move upwards.
Andy too and I know we've talked about this and we've tried to relate on the call the new products that we've implemented have resonated with consumers.
And I want to make sure that everyone understands that IEO is relatively flat and declining in many of the markets around the world.
So we're not going to change that menu pipeline execution strategy.
It is absolutely working.
However we are facing some headwinds and so we'll continue to execute that continue to make our target to outperform in the marketplace as a whole.
But I think you are quite clairvoyant to the fact that there may be something that does come up in the latter part of the year relative to new products.
All right.
Next question is from Bryan Elliot Raymond James.
Thank you.
I'd like to talk about competitive environment outside of the U.S.
So the informal eating out market particularly in Europe has been soft for some time.
Are you seeing evidence yet of some shrinkage in supply and also thinking about China which has been through a meaningful short-term contraction if there's been any shakeout of competition particularly thinking of maybe of local type non-deep pocket type competition and if you're seeing any benefit potentially down the road from some of that? Hi Bryan.
Outside of the U.S.
some of the competitive sets are different.
I'll ask Tim to speak a little bit to some of the things that he's seeing out there.
But keep this in mind.
The U.S.
is – there are a couple of markets that are similar to the U.S.
and not quite to the U.S.
level relative to the competitive density of competitors as we know them.
In many of these cases you have more as we would define them smaller chains mom and pop type organizations.
So we do see consolidation in some of those smaller ones when you get into recessionary periods or macroeconomic conditions like these but relative to whether or not we've seen larger chains that are consolidating that's not something that I have seen.
But Tim I don't know what else we've seen out there in your travels.
Bryan a lot of couponing and vouchering going on but we're seeing a rise in the non-traditional competitors that we've faced in the past particularly cafes convenience stores bakeries and supermarkets coming up with ready-to-eat meals.
So that's been a resurgence for them particularly in Europe.
On China the overall chicken market is kind of taking a step backwards as it pertains to the IEO.
It's starting to dissipate now and coming back but particularly I would say in Western QSR has probably taken the biggest decline.
All right.
Our next question's from John Ivankoe JPMorgan.
Hi.
Thank you.
It seemed in the last release in the April release and on that conference call you were a little bit more protective about profitability in the U.S.
and I wonder if there is a change if I'm right in sensing that there is a change relative – how we're thinking about the business now? And of course I ask that in the context of the franchisees which I think make more money per store level than – I know make more money per store level than any other major franchisee group if they've really signed on to I think what you're asking them is less pricing continue with the Dollar Menu focus on driving traffic even if it doesn't necessarily come to an extent of increasing their near-term store level cash flow? Hi John.
Thanks for the question.
I would tell you the franchisees have done I think a stellar job in this environment and if you think about it from their perspective several things.
One is they've definitely been aligned relative to the things that we have asked of them focusing on the customer ensuring that we continue to invest in the business whether it be reimages or whether it be with new products and the new product introductions.
We have really accelerated some of those introductions and getting those to the marketplace because it's very important to have new news and exciting news as well as to execute value.
They have been very very aligned on the value campaign and platform.
Having said that they've given a lot of feedback relative to what does the Dollar Menu look like today and how we need to maintain that and what things we might need to look at in terms of any modifications at any point in time.
So I think the franchisees have done a really really solid job.
They've continued to invest in the business and we along with them in the business they are one of the greatest assets to this overall McDonald's family has.
I'd also add along with that our suppliers because they are in an interesting commodity and legislative environment as well as the franchisees and small business owners.
And they also have supported our system relative to how we want to be able to manage through these macroeconomic issues around the world.
And so I can't say anything but be complementary about what our franchisees have done relative to the cash flow investments their focus on the business their focus on the customers their focus on their employees and they're focused on a broader alignment around the McDonald system.
Next question is from R.J.
Hottovy from Morningstar.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to keep it in the U.S.
for a minute.
You talked about the new products innovations meeting or exceeding expectations.
I was hoping to get some color on the Dollar Menu just in particular your thoughts about the recent Dollar Menu performance and how that compares to your expectations especially with so much promotional activity in the environment? Thanks.
Hi R.J.
The Dollar Menu itself still represents about 13% to 14% of sales which is still in that same range it's been in.
What has benefited us has been the fact that it is a consistent execution and it still has tremendous alignment across the franchises and the McOpCo restaurants that we have.
So it is the value platform of choice.
Now we've done a couple of things to try to add some new news to that which also help us to be a little bit more margin accretive things like the Grilled Onion Cheddar Sandwich Hot 'n Spicy McChicken limited time offer selections that we placed into the Dollar Menu.
Even having done those we still remain at 13% to 14% of sales based upon the Dollar Menu.
So it is a solid platform for us.
The last thing I'll mention is early on we talked about the fact that there are – Tim mentioned we see a lot of discounting in the broader marketplace.
We know that one of the most important things that customers look for is consistency in terms of the value platform.
They want to know that they can depend on McDonald's to continue to deliver value every day all day and the platform for us is more than about short-term discounts.
It's about establishing customer loyalty versus being aggressive for one or two months.
We need long-term loyalty.
We want a strong customer base.
We want to make sure we drive business frequency and we want to support the introduction also of higher margin products so build the base so that when we implement new products those products have more awareness relative to our consumer base.
So we've established these branded affordability platforms around the world now and they are performing to the levels that we would like.
We have a couple of markets R.J.
that we still need to do a little bit of work and Tim is focused on some of those markets.
But by and large we're in a pretty solid place relative to the value platforms around the world.
Next question is Peter Saleh from Telsey Advisor Group.
Great thank you.
I know it's still early but maybe you could give us a little bit of a preview on your outlook for commodities for 2014.
We've seen the grain prices coming down and I remember last summer we had gain prices really shooting up because of the drought and your team in the U.S.
at least was able to do a pretty good job in terms of your exposure for this year.
So any thoughts on '14 would be pretty helpful? Yeah Peter it's premature for us to give any numerical guidance but you can imagine as you point out that our team is constantly looking at how do we best deliver that stable predictable price to the restaurants.
While we're not trying to be market timers we obviously do look at the markets to see when conditions might be better to layer on some coverage and you can imagine that we are working with our suppliers and our suppliers are putting hedges on going into next year to provide us some of that stability.
Probably at the Analyst Meeting in November it's when we'll start to give some numerical texture on 2014.
Your next question is Nicole Miller from Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
You've talked about new news and I’m wondering if it's fair to kind of assess that as evolutions of current platforms and I am asking because it seemed like you bought a lot of customization of these platforms to the menu and I’m wondering how you feel about that being a key driver of sales and profits versus your peer group? Hi Nicole.
I think you see both.
You'll see some areas that are customization if you would and I assume you're talking about things like the Quarter Pounder line which will also see some new platforms like you’re seeing with McWraps.
You will see us also do limited time offers.
So relative to beverages or whether it be the other products that we’d implement.
I think Tim gave some insight as to other thing that we might see in the U.S.
but this is consistent also Tim around the world.
Yeah and in the U.S.
Egg White Delight being able to put that different muffins and different carriers.
But as we move into the platform deployment of made for you you’re seeing more customization.
All right.
We have time for one last question.
Paul Westra from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Inc.</strong> Great.
Thank you.
I was wondering if we get an update on the value menu efforts in France particularly maybe Australia a bit.
I know you [indiscernible] menu there and given a softness economically I was curious to give as much color as we can about the mix the value effort there and may be the percentage of add-on sales within that menu that helps pay for it is that progressing as planned? And I guess a related question to the loose menu effort in Australia.
I’m just somewhat surprised about the overall comp going negative with the great success of the loose menu seems would have prepared you well for this year’s economic softness and curious maybe about market share changes in Australia as well? Hi Paul.
I will – I can speak to the end of that with Australian market share changes and then I will ask Tim to talk about the other part of your question which was France and France’s value piece.
Relative to Australia Australia is another one of those markets that at this point in time we see from their perspective you’re seeing some softer – clearly a softer economy youth unemployment in Australia is about 25.5%.
So they’re facing some thing unemployment for them has risen.
Having said that Australia is also one of the markets that we’ve had some solid share gains in and continue to have share gains in Australia.
The – so the broader marketplace we’ve seen some – we see some tough economy but we’ve also seen some share gain and we’ve seen our business meeting forward there.
And again I think the franchisees and the folks the Company employees and suppliers have done a good job there.
So Tim anything on France? Yeah Paul France if you remember us talking about Casse-Croute which is a Baguette Sandwich and a drink for under €5 has done extremely well for us particularly in the lunch day part.
France is gaining market share in a declining IEO environment.
The thing that we’re working on to address is looking at some erosion at the dinner time and the folks have done a really good job of putting some products in test to address that but it’s a tough environment there.
They’re gaining share at the expense of the rest of the IEO players.
All right.
Thanks everyone.
We got some final remarks from Don.
First of all thank you all again for being on today’s call and participating.
And as we wrap up the call I want to make sure that you all understand that while we recognize that this is a challenging environment we’ve been through challenging environments before as McDonald’s.
Our confidence in our brand and the competitive advantages of our system truly are strength and a reflection of our ability to build on and learn from the past having went through cycles before these are different when you see them in the broad nature of these around the globe.
But we’ve been purposeful and we’ve been agile very flexible in our local markets about how we address some of the challenges there.
We are going to be and continue to be strategic relative to the way that we plan and evolve based upon customers spending habits their discretionary opportunities and the fact that we want to be their favorite place and wait to eat.
So we look to evolving with our customers evolving in these marketplaces and leveraging our history to make sure we mitigate through these challenges.
Thanks so much for all of your support and your questions and have a great day.
This does conclude today’s call.
At this time you may disconnect your line.
Hello and welcome to McDonald’s January 23 2014 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald’s Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today’s presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald’s Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call today are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson; our Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen; and Chief Operating Officer Tim Fenton who is joining us for Q&amp;A.
Today’s conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available at www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today’s call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Don.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
As we embark on a New Year our systems focused on leveraging our competitive advantages to deliver great tasting and high-quality food and beverages at the speed and at the convenience that only McDonald’s can provide.
We have high expectations for ourselves and we have added high expectations for our brand.
And we will not waver in our commitment to delivering an exceptional experience for the 70 million customers who visit us every day.
Given the challenging year that we had in 2013 I want to reiterate that we remain committed to adapting to keep pace with changing markets.
We remain committed to investing to meet future demand.
And we remain committed to addressing performance opportunities in the current environment.
As we shared at the November Investor Meeting our primary focus is on resetting and strengthening the relationship that we have with our customers.
They are the driving force behind our mission and we continue to place them front and center in all that we do.
We continue to execute against our three global growth priorities to optimize our menu modernize the customer experience and to broaden accessibility because these are the areas where we have the most significant opportunities to differentiate our sales.
Our near-term opportunities revolve around optimizing current initiatives for greater customer relevance broader consumer reach and better restaurant execution.
In addition we prioritized our near-term efforts on improvements in key opportunity markets.
These include Germany and Japan which are experiencing sustained negative trends and the U.S.
and Australia which are significant contributors to consolidate a performance.
Specifically the leadership teams in these markets are developing more locally relevant solutions based on stronger consumer insights and more recent market learning’s.
This would help us to make the appropriate adjustments to regain momentum as we more clearly align with our customer’s needs.
Now let’s turn to 2013 global results.
In constant currencies operating income was up 1% for the quarter and 3% for the year.
Earnings per share growth increased 2% for the quarter and was up 4% for the full year in constant currencies.
For the full year global systemized sales grew 3% in constant currencies and global comparable sales grew up 20 basis points.
Comparable sales were down 10 basis points for the quarter.
Guest tracking was down across major segments reflecting initiatives that didn’t resonate as strongly with consumers amid a sluggish IEO industry.
2013 was a difficult year and we’re keenly aware of our short term challenges.
Due to economic predictions are mixed but most assumed some limited global improvement in 2014.
However we don’t expect significant changes in market dynamics given modest growth projects for the IEO industry.
Looking to January global comparable sales are expected to be relatively flat.
Now let’s shift to the markets U.S.
comparable sales decreased 140 basis points for the fourth quarter and 20 basis points for the entire year.
Operating income was up 1% for both periods.
Our U.S.
2013 results fell short of our expectations.
We introduced a number of significant new products and limited time offers at a quick pace to challenge more effective restaurant and marketing execution.
Our 2014 menu and marketing strategies better balance affordability with core products new choices and limited time offers.
For example the recent evolution to Dollar Menu and More intended to drive customer visits by offering greater value and variety while improving restaurant profitability and in today results are in line with initial expectations.
We have also adjusted the sequencing of product introductions making it easier for restaurant teams to execute especially when it comes to training and staffing.
So customers can truly enjoy an even better experience.
Now these adjustments are complimented by a consistent focus on core equities like breakfast where a unique competitive advantage exist for McDonald’s.
We’re enhancing the breakfast experience by creating more of a coffee culture through high quality McCafe products they pair very well with delicious foods both existing and new.
And additional change is underway focusing in our brand strategies as we work to better resonate with our customers.
In constant with other changes that we have made in the marketing organization yesterday we announced that Deborah Wahl will be joining our U.S.
business as Chief Marketing Officer.
We look forward to the fresh perspective that Deborah will bring as she leads the team as we refine our marketing strategies and our execution plans.
Now let’s move to Europe where comparable sales were up 1% for the quarter and flat for the year.
In constant currencies operating income was flat for the quarter and up 4% for the year.
Despite persistently low consumer confidence across the zone the UK Russia and France generated positive comparable sales for the quarter partially offset by negative comparable sales in Germany and Southern Europe.
The UK and Russia continued to grow promotions like Russia’s American Classics generated excitement and the introduction of appealing menu platforms including blended ice in the UK created additional reasons for our customers to visit McDonald’s.
The UK also remains committed to daypart expansion.
Efforts centered on extended hours breakfast and the family business are driving momentum throughout the day.
In France December marked five consecutive months of positive comparable sales.
Strong promotional activity and an ongoing emphasis on relevant value offers like Casse Croute help fuel our momentum.
Given uncertainty around consumer reaction to recent VAT increases and current economic indicators that do not reflect improvements in market dynamics.
We remain cautiously optimistic about France.
Let’s turn to Germany where we see significant opportunities for improvement with new Company leadership in place and fresh perspectives among our franchisee leadership team.
The markets goal is to stabilize this trend and begin rebuilding brand relevance.
Driven by deeper insights we’re refining our plans to focus on fewer yet better tactics than more closely aligned with local customer needs.
For example October’s launch of the McBaguette a two item value bundle that mirrors the very successful cash Casse Croute in France.
However with a German influence exceeded expectations because it's a high quality product at a price point where we previously had a gap to consumer expectation.
Let’s now shift to Asia-Pacific Middle East and Africa or APMEA where comparable sales were down 2.4% for the quarter and down 1.9% for the full year.
In constant currencies operating income was relatively flat for both the fourth quarter and the year.
Japan comprises roughly a third of APMEA’s comparable sales though the market contributed less than 15% to the segment’s operating income.
Amid a highly competitive environment Japan continued to experience significant comparable sales in guest count declines.
Along with new leadership in this market Japan is taking the steps necessary to strengthen the McDonald’s brand connection with consumers.
This includes repositioning its affordability strategy in concept with additional emphasis on hospitality and more relevant menu news for both the new and core foods and beverages.
In Australia comparable sales were relatively flat for the quarter.
The appeal of new McWraps and Salads did help to build average check.
Looking ahead the market plans – the market plans are anchored around being even more relevant with local consumers.
We are emphasizing value across all price tiers and we are launching more premium products to create excitement across the menu.
In China comparable sales decreased 40 basis points for the quarter a sequential improvement over the last nine months and were down 3.6% for the full year.
Our enhanced all day value platform is generating improvement and will continue to expand convenience initiatives including dessert kiosk and delivery.
And we will work to grow the family business across the market.
Given the opportunities inherent in a growing more prosperous middle class we also continue to grow through expansion in China.
We opened 275 restaurants last year.
Around the world our holistic approach which begins with the customer experience is guiding our actions.
And as our business continues to generate significant levels of cash our first priority is making disciplined investments in the opportunities that will grow the business over the long-term.
In 2013 we opened more than 1400 new restaurants and reinvested in our base of existing restaurants including our re-imaging efforts.
After capital expenditures we expect to return all of our free cash flow over the long-term to our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Last September our Board of Directors announced a 5% increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.81 per share in the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2013 we returned a total of $4.9 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
And in 2014 we expect to return approximately $5 billion.
In closing I remain confident in McDonald’s future and more specifically our ability to strengthen our relationships with our customers.
My confidence is grounded in the fact that we are targeting the opportunities that exist within our three global growth priorities to optimize the menu modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to brand McDonald’s.
Our plans are supported by a comprehensive execution approach which leverages all three legs of the system to satisfy customer expectations and drive improved business performance.
The alignment of franchisee supplier partners and employees is strong and critical to our success and our strong local market structures enable us to more deeply understand and better execute those initiatives which are most important to our customers in their local markets.
These distinct competitive advantages are the reason we are well positioned to deliver enduring profitable growth today and for the long-term.
Thanks again everyone and I will now turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
Though McDonald’s grew revenues operating income and earnings per share in 2013 our financial performance did not meet our high expectations.
However I am confident in the underlying strength of our system our business model and competitive advantages to deliver strong performance over the long-term.
We entered the year with a renewed energy around engaging more deeply with our customers.
We placed the customer at the center of everything we do and we have the resources and infrastructure to meet our goal of becoming our customer’s favorite place and way to eat and drink.
So how will we do this and what will be different in 2014? We are leveraging consumer insights to better understand how we can deliver on evolving consumer needs.
This includes enhancing our value based messaging and reengaging with customers in more compelling ways from our marketing and promotions to the order points that are restaurants.
We have identified areas where we can improve and are prioritizing the initiatives that are most impactful to our customers and we continue to move forward with investments that will drive long term growth than returns.
Turning to 2013 performance so revenues grew modestly at 2% we prudently managed our expenses and maintained full year combined operating margin of 31.2%.
Our operating margin continues to compare quite favorably to other large global consumer companies and restaurant businesses.
Our profitability is driven by restaurant margins.
Franchising remains core to our business model with 81% of our global restaurant operated by local business men and women.
Franchise margins account for about 70% of total restaurant margins.
In constant currencies consolidated franchise margins increased 2% to $1.9 billion for the quarter and 3% to $7.6 billion for the full year.
Our franchise business model is resilient ultimately dependent upon topline growth to maintain or expand margins over time.
As a result of relatively flat comparable sales and higher occupancy cost the consolidated franchise margin percent declined 90 basis points for the quarter to 82% and declined 60 basis points for the full year to 82.4%.
Consolidated company operating margins declined 60 basis points to 17.2% for the quarter and fell 70 basis points to 17.5% for the year.
Higher operating cost in both periods amid weak comparable sales contributed to the margin declines.
We’re diligently managing restaurant expenses but we expect cost increases to continue pressuring margins in 2014.
Looking at segment performance in the U.S.
negative comparable sales in fourth quarter combined with 2% higher commodity cost and increased labor costs resulted in a 50 basis point decline in company operated margins to 19%.
For the full year margins declined 110 basis points to 18.4% primarily due to higher labor commodity and other expenses coupled with weak comparable sales.
From a pricing standpoint we ended the year with a 3.1% increase in the U.S.
This is a result of several smaller menu board increases taken through 2013 and an effective 50 basis point increase in November due to the introduction of the Dollar Menu and More.
The food away from home inflation index ended the year up 2.1% which was at the low end of the expected 2% to 3% range.
For comparison the food at home inflation index was significantly lower at 0.4% well below the expected range of 1% to 2%.
Overtime we seek to price in-line with food away from home.
As we look to 2014 both food away from home and food at home inflation is currently projected to be up 2.5% to 3.5% although updated forecast are due in the coming days.
We will continue to monitor these two indices closely.
Balancing our desire to drive traffic to our restaurants with strategically managing margins and cash flow.
On the expense side we expect 2014 U.S.
commodity cost increases of 1% to 2% with more pressure in the first half of the year.
Turning to Europe in fourth quarter this segment increased company operated margins 30 basis points to 19.4% as positive comparable sales performance offset 1% higher commodity cost and increased occupancy expenses.
For the full year margins increased 10 basis points to 19.2%.
Europe’s company operated margins benefited from strong performance in France as well as Russia and the UK.
Combined these markets contribute over 60% of Europe’s company operated margin dollars.
At year-end Europe’s price increase excluding Russia was about 1.5%.
We remain very deliberate with our pricing given cautious consumer sentiment VAT increases in markets like France and ongoing austerity measures all of which pressure disposable income.
Europe’s 2014 commodity costs are also expected to increase about 1% to 2% with more pressure in the second half of the year.
In Asia-Pacific Middle East and Africa our three largest markets experienced negative comparable sales in both fourth quarter and the full year with Japan having the most significant impact.
Though the challenges differ across markets we believe that emphasizing McDonald’s key advantages of value convenience and service will be critical to long-term growth in this segment.
We tailor these advantages in different ways within each local market from providing affordable entry points through dessert kiosks in China to enhancing everyday value platforms in China and Australia to expanding our web ordering and delivery service in Japan.
Markets across APMEA have some of our best customer service scores and we are encouraged by our continued progress.
Quite simply we want more customers to visit McDonald’s more often.
We will continue to innovate and invest across the diversified portfolio of markets within this promising area of the world.
Relative to profitability APMEA’s company-operated margins declined 180 basis points for the quarter to 12.6% and declined 170 basis points to 14.2% for the full year as higher labor occupancy and other costs pressured margins.
New store openings in China continued to negatively impact APMEA’s margins in both periods as well.
Consolidated G&amp;A was flat in fourth quarter and down about 3% for the full year in constant currencies.
The full year decrease was driven primarily by lower incentive-based compensation.
As discussed at the November Investor Meeting we expect 2014 G&amp;A to increase above $200 million or 8% in constant currencies reflecting the impact of below target 2013 incentive pay expenses associated with our worldwide Owner Operator Convention in April and sponsorship of the upcoming Winter Olympic Games in Sochi and cost to support restaurant growth capacity enhancements and digital initiatives.
Our full year 2014 effective tax rate guidance is 31% to 33% although we do expect volatility between quarters given our global business.
As a reminder first quarter 2013 results reflected a one-time tax benefit of nearly $50 million related to the retroactive impact of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.
This contributed $0.05 to EPS in first quarter last year which we will be lapping this quarter.
McDonald’s resilient business model continues to generate significant cash from operations.
As Don mentioned our first use of that cash is to reinvest in our business.
We are the global market leader and we intend to continue leveraging this competitive advantage.
We will accomplish this through a balanced measured approach to investing in new and existing restaurants to drive future growth than returns.
Looking to 2014 over half of our $2.9 billion to $3 billion of capital expenditures will be used to open between 1 500 and 1 600 new restaurants.
We will grow to the opportunity in both established and emerging markets further enhancing our diversified portfolio.
The breakdown for openings in our geographic segments is as follows: 250 in the U.S.
320 in Europe and 830 in APMEA including about 300 new restaurants in China.
We also continue to modernize our brand through re-imaging.
We updated 1 529 locations in 2013 a little shy of our projection of over 1 600.
This shortfall was spread fairly evenly across the segments.
As we continued – as we make continued progress and some markets reach completion our passive re-imaging is naturally slowing.
This is reflected in 2014 plans that call for over 1 000 total re-images.
This reduction is also the result of planned kitchen investments in the U.S.
that are being prioritized in 2014.
These new high density kitchen prep tables are designed to deliver enhanced service capabilities and menu choice to our customers.
Lastly let me touch on foreign currency translation which negatively impacted fourth quarter EPS by $0.01 and the full year by $0.05.
At current exchange rates we expect first quarter EPS to be negatively impacted by $0.02 to $0.03 with a full year negative impact of $0.05 to $0.06.
As always take this as directional guidance only because rates will change as we move throughout 2014.
We begin 2014 energized by our opportunities yet mindful of the challenges in front of us.
We’re the global leader in a $1.2 trillion highly fragmented industry.
We’re one of the strongest brands in the world with significant competitive advantages.
Together with our outstanding owner/operators and suppliers whom we believe are the best in the business.
We proudly serve 70 million customers every day and we aligned to drive enduring profitable growth for the McDonald system and our shareholders in the years to come.
Thanks now I will turn it over to Kathy to begin our Q&amp;A session.
Thanks Pete.
I’m going to now open the call for analyst and investor questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Again we will try to give as many people possible the opportunity to ask questions.
So if you can try to limit yourself to one we will get back to you for a follow-up as time allows.
Our first question is from Brian Bittner from Oppenheimer.
Kind of big picture thoughts question here.
I just think about over a decade you know for the last decade up until 2012 you guys really average the same store sales increase around that 5% range and you know overtime and Don you’re at the heart of this but you guys had such compelling bottoms up drivers in the business and just we’re executing against much lower sales per unit than you set at today.
But as you said year-to-date seems the bottoms of drivers have just faded a bit from what they used to drive and the bottom-line I guess comps have hit this sluggish cycle and the question here is there anything that you see from a new platform perspective or new business layer perspective that you can go after to get back to those mid-single digit comps across the system or do you really sit here and look at your businesses today and think about it much more is being relied on the macro and much less about specific things that you can do to drive it.
We really believe Brian the strategic areas that we need to focus on to grow this business into the future.
Those are somewhat consistent and we still have opportunities and those being around our menu and the menu being relevant really enhancing the customer experience and you guys know quite a bit about the execution focus and getting back to a stronger customer relationship this year as well as accessibility and affordability.
Those areas are the right strategies; this affordability aspect is a very very key component of our growth as we move forward.
So we think we’re in the right area with those strategies.
The key is going to really be to reestablished the trust of customers.
When we look across the broader range that is one of the consistent things that we see and that means basic execution at a restaurant level market engagement at a much stronger level and also to make sure that our menu is relevant.
There are some other aspects of that that we have talked about being digital engagement we have really not played in that arena in a strong way and clearly you all know based upon them and some of our conversations that our intent is to be much stronger with regard to our digital outreach and digital engagement focus.
So we’re focused really you mentioned macro-economics.
We’re focused on those things within our control to drive our performance.
This is going to be a market share battle and a market share battle gain in order for us to move the business but we believe we have the right strategies and the right focus at local levels in the markets to achieve the goals that we have.
One of the things we have all discussed is that we got to really get back to a much stronger focus on what we call 5P execution.
When we talked about the plan of win people product place price promotion.
Those five areas we have got to make sure that we’re maxing out our execution strategies for whatever initiative that we implement in any market around the world.
That’s going to help us create that relevance again with our customer.
So those focal points along with the priority focused on the key markets that we know we have challenges in and an even stronger fashion which Tim and teams are doing.
I believe will get us the growth that we need not only for the current year but as we move forward Brian.
All right our next question is from Matt DiFrisco Buckingham Research.
My question is with respect to margins.
I think you alluded when you talked about APMEA specifically about China having a little bit of a drag obviously because it’s a company-owned mix where it’s a franchise mix but I wonder if you could comment on China the company-owned margins is there de-leverage there as well I would assume with the slower comp? And then if you could sort of tie that in also how we should think Pete of the direction of the comp I am sorry the margin in the U.S.
when you rollout and we start to see the kitchen equipment being put in there? Absent a comp lift would we be seeing also a margin benefit from that initiative of new equipment coming into the stores?  Alright Matt I will give it a shot.
China as you mentioned we saw both.
Our comparable stores did have a decline in margin as well as the impact of the new restaurants coming online although that impact of the new restaurants was less than it was a year ago.
And as I think the excess you listened or we are at our investor conference you heard Dave Hoffmann talk about some of the initiatives they have underway with their go-to-market strategy to look at bringing cost out of that development the new development there which will further lessen the impact of the new openings on the margins going forward there.
So that piece of it is moving in the right direction but as you mentioned China as well as all the markets around the world margins are a top line game.
And to the extent that we aren’t driving the comp sales that we need there the margins will continue to be a little bit pressured.
In the U.S.
specifically U.S.
around the kitchen equipment but more broadly one of the positives if you will out of the fourth quarter was we saw some margin benefit from the dollar menu and more pricing aspect.
So we did see a little bit of positive impact to the chef there.
As we rolled this new kitchen equipment out it’s going to have a couple of different impacts.
One obviously some of what we have talked a lot is design to improve our throughput improve our order accuracy offer more choice and variety to the consumer.
So from that standpoint obviously that’s a – should be a positive for the business.
It’s on the negative side of that so to speak.
It will be additional investment.
It will have additional depreciation associated with that some additional training.
So in and of itself it’s not a one single piece that’s going to make or break the margins next year.
We will continue to see commodity pressure.
We had about 14 states raise minimum wage here effective January 1 with others making noise about doing the same thing commodities healthcare costs.
So costs will continue to be a challenge for us in 2014 as we think about the margins.
Thanks very much.
And more broadly Don or Pete we are in a tough operating environment than you have been in a while your advantage versus the peers seems to have shrunk and these are all things we have known for a while maybe sales get better because you continue to push out these initiatives but it may also be that we are just in a lower sales environment.
So if that is a backdrop what are the other things that you consider in looking at how to enhance the performance.
So for example many of your peers over the last several years have gone through more significant refranchising rounds.
Is there an opportunity there? We have talked in the past while looking at your balance sheet it doesn’t seem like that’s something you are inclined to do but maybe willingness to revisit that.
Looking at even corporate cost cutting are there opportunities there to create a leaner organization given this leaner – these leaner economic times or leaner performance times.
Any thoughts there will be helpful?  Yes John thanks much for the question.
Let’s go back to how we view and look at performance and some of the data and what we actually see.
If we look in the U.S.
particularly one of the things that we see today is a bit of a bifurcation on a consumer base.
So some of the fast casuals are performing a bit better and customers are skewing that way a little bit more as a result of a bit more discretionary income and that economic class of individuals.
So we also know that those customers that tend to come to us are fairing quite as well in the current economy in the U.S.
Having said that what we have to do John in the near term is focus on the value base focus on some of the things that we know are going to be critical in terms of the execution of our menu.
I am going to ask Tim in a moment to kind of speak a little bit to the key markets because I don’t want to just pass over that too briefly.
There are a lot of opportunities we feel we have in the key markets.
So Tim will give an update there.
Relative to looking at things like refranchising opportunities.
We’re constantly looking at that John and yes we do have a longer term plan relative to where we refranchise and opportunities there along with optimizing the portfolio in our major markets.
G&amp;A wise we are continuously looking at that and clearly as a pay for performance culture we don’t perform as Pete mentioned the incentive based compensation in that part of G&amp;A comes down.
There are other areas that we reduce G&amp;A and it's because we’re continuing to focus on some strategic changes to our structures and our efficiency and effectiveness.
So we’re going to continue to look at those areas but I will tell you we have to be customer relevant.
The way to drive the business is going to be through the top line growth which means the execution in the restaurant it means the product focus that we have and it means the way that we’re addressing customers and engaging them.
So with that Tim if you wouldn’t mind speak a little bit to some of the key markets that you see and opportunities.
Key markets that we’re looking at obviously the U.S.
Germany Japan and relatively new leadership in the U.S.
Germany and Japan as well and each team is focused on making those adjustments necessary to regain the momentum.
Specifically in the U.S.
energizing consumer messaging and market execution.
We stumbled a little bit last year with too many new products too fast and create a lot of complexity.
As we mentioned in November reestablishing our breakfast with a lot of emphasis on beverage and coffee.
We know that coffee drives the visits at our breakfast time and I guess one of the biggest things that we’re looking at and U.S.
is focusing on peak hour execution.
That goes hand in hand with the enhancements of our prep table.
It gives us more capacity in those peak hours and of course menu choice.
In Germany we’re going to focus on fewer but better tactics built around deeper insights behind what really addresses Germany’s needs.
We are responding to the café and bakery it really kind of impacted McDonald’s affordability and relevance by introducing such products as the McBaguette fulfill that price point gap.
And of course strengthening our value program and focus more on core and continuing to push breakfast even though it is a low base it is growing for us there.
Japan taking steps that we frame what the brand represents to our customers and repositioning the markets affordability strategy.
We can’t go head to head with the 45000 convenient stores on price alone we realize that.
So we really have to put emphasis on our hospitality a new menu news both new and core.
All right our next question is from Joe Buckley Merrill Lynch.
I know you mentioned the Dollar Menu and More was meeting your internal expectation so far but could you talk about the extra-value menu experience in 2012 versus the early Dollar’s are more experienced in the latter part of 2013 and how are they comparing contrast? Yeah I know you had to back away from the extra-value menu and just kind of curious the reaction to Dollar Menu and More why you’re encouraged by it and what do you think that’s staying power and can it kind of move the customer traffic needle as you suggest was the goal.
First of all if you look back at 2012 we had extra-value menu we had extra-value meals plus we had Dollar Menu.
Rather confusing not only to our customers but actually kind of confusing to us.
With the Dollar Menu and More it's meeting our expectations during the test.
It was designed to really stretch out our products of variety and give us flexibility in pricing.
It's simpler it's easier.
It's only been in stores for a couple of months and the couple of months was through the holiday period.
We’re seeing slight gains in guest counts and of course as Pete mentioned earlier it's margin friendly.
So far so far so good and it was a good transition and evolution for where we had to go with our value menus and dollar menu.
Hey Joe if I might you know one thing and I have mentioned this in the comments to get back to a stronger relationship with customers.
to be very honest extra-value menu while a very solid attempt was based in mining out additional profitability the consumer part of that from a consumer benefit was not as strong as Dollar Menu and More.
Dollar Menu and More is customer focused customer based builds out to core equity and yields that value the customers in that way.
Extra-value menu was really a reformulation of certain products adding some others just to build profitability.
So this is what we mean by getting closer and getting back to a strong relationship with the customers.
Hi good morning.
Don and Pete actually I have a follow-up to maybe that last comment where you talked a lot about using consumer insights to drive the business more so than you have done in the past? And I think Pete mentioned in his remarks that you have identified some areas where you need to improve? And I know you have alluded to a lot of it so far but maybe it would be helpful if you could give some specific examples especially in the U.S.
where it looks like the relative performance has been pretty soft in the recent months? What have you learned from consumers where McDonald’s brand is currently missing the mark and maybe how does that translate to the tactics you are going to use going forward?  I will tell you what David what I would do is I talk to a part of this and I want Tim to talk a little bit to the operations piece of it because that’s a big part too.
So again and I know it’s going to sound like Don you continue to mention the same thing but I am going to go back to customer relevance.
In the U.S.
one of the challenges we have is we have lost some of our customer relevance and we have lost it across several parts of the day.
So relative to the breakfast part which Tim just mentioned this notion on coffee is not just about coffee it’s about our breakfast business.
Coffee too is a big part of the lead for breakfast but we have great tasting food.
If we lose relevance in coffee then we are going to lose the transaction which yields food purchase.
And so we have got to make sure that the food is relevant and that the awareness around McDonald’s as a kitchen and a restaurant that cooks and prepares fresh high-quality food is strong and pronounced in our marketing and our messaging.
So we have got to get back to that on food.
We have got to get back to an energy and excitement in our marketing balance in the execution of it.
And that’s something that all of us have noted Jeff Stratton and the team in the U.S.
have noted.
And you have seen some of the changes which again Tim can update you on relative to even personnel changes in the U.S.
So that’s one of the specifics in the U.S.
that I could speak to.
We talked about value but Tim maybe on this operations front because that’s another big one.
One of the things we did last year David we overcomplicated the restaurants.
If you remember we introduced McWraps we introduced Egg White Delight we introduced Quarter Pounder Toppers and really didn’t give the restaurants an opportunity to breathe.
We instituted a gatekeeper really with the intent of doing fewer products but better execution.
We mentioned a little bit earlier the capacity on the prep table that allows us really to have more capacity during our peak hours where we haven’t been able to particularly in some of our drive-through restaurants service quickly and fulfill the capacity that we wanted so fewer products better.
One other thing and you talk about insights and I want to mention Jeremy historically we lost some share based on our insights to non-traditional competitors cafés and bakeries.
At the same time when we were pulling off some of our value offerings bakery stepped up with value offerings and some of our trade went to non-traditional QSRs as I said bakeries and cafés.
We have learned about that.
We are designing our strategy to how we can go back to mitigate that but that’s a deeper understanding of consumer insights market by market by market.
Thanks.
In the past McDonald’s would have operations upgrades like Made for You or the beverage station and that will allow your marketing machine to get cranking over several years oftentimes driving the sales layer.
I am trying to figure out if some of these changes that you are doing with the prep tables could be an enabler from an innovation and marketing standpoint as well as something that helps you with peak hour capacity and execution.
Could you comment on that please?  Yes.
I will make one comment on the marketing piece and there is – again there is another capacity piece to this.
On the marketing end David you are right one of the things that we have done and actually we didn’t do it nearly and strongly with Made for You back in 1998.
We implemented Made for You but we really didn’t come out with a strong marketing campaign that was correlated to it.
We have individual markets that didn’t start to benefit but we didn’t hit it as strong.
To that point even today customers don’t realize to the greatest extent that at McDonald’s we are making that sandwich preparing that in the back of the house after you place that order.
What does this mean? It means that there is a notion of that again that relationship and the awareness the customers have about who we really are as McDonald’s and what we are able to deliver in that kitchen which is a customized sandwich for you.
It's something that we really need to be able to advance in our marketing messages more now.
Challenges has been there has been a little concern as to whether or not and how hard we can go with that messaging if we didn’t think we had more capacity headroom.
So with that in mind we have done some things with the kitchen and Tim maybe a little bit high density.
Yeah well the high density UHC cabinets we have allows us more capacity and the prep table enhancements not only gives us flexibility and customization with other toppings it gives us the capacity and some of the existing products that we had that we had not to get really operationally technically but we had a cross over and replenishing during peak hours was the last thing you want to do but with the refrigerated rail that we’re adding and we should have this all into the system between the May - June timeframe.
It is all just some flexibility with different variety of the toppings jalapenos avocado (indiscernible) and different spice sauces if you will.
There is a lot of flexibility and more customization.
So it's capacity on existing it gives us flexibility for new products and new toppings as we go forward.
And then we got to tie those together David to your point we have got to tie the marketing messages and awareness into driving this.
That’s one of things that you are referenced quite a bit when you talk about coffee.
We referenced PR marketing and the operational pieces together to drive that category and we will do it again.
Next question is from Jeff Farmer Wells Fargo.
Just following on the I don’t know throughput side you’ve discussed the high density the prep tables lot of other plans but are you guys planning to add labor to these restaurants? How should we think about that moving forward?  That’s another priority that we have and in fact our (indiscernible) is right now working with all of our operators on just that.
Staffing positioning and scheduling as far as putting the right people on it at the right time particularly during our peak hours.
We have to have the additional staffing required for some of the complexity that we have.
That was I think one of the stumbling’s we had last year with all the new products we brought in all at the same time or within close proximity.
So definitely it is a priority for us and beefing up staff and particular on peak hours and weekends.
Next question is from Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Just a question on kind of broader Europe and I think we have talked about this few quarters about but France seems to have joined the UK and Russia perhaps in recent months.
I know Don you mentioned the string of positive comps there and that leaves I guess Germany as the weak major market.
One I’m just wondering if that’s fair and two I’m just wondering how we should think about ’14 whether or not Europe could be the silver linings for the broader company it does seem like at least on the macro data that we see that the trends are stabilizing or perhaps improving across broader Europe.
I’m wondering if that is the case where the brand McDonald is seeing that and if what would be a good way to play the improving European macro and if there is anything specific to talk about in Germany and I know you mentioned new leadership but anything else that we should expect to help send that comp to the positive side?  I think Tim mentioned some of the things that are taken place in Germany right now and I believe that you know what’s different about Germany aspect is that this we had a refocusing before.
We put something’s in place that were customer focus.
We only executed them for shorter period of time and we pulled them out.
I think that’s been a lot of learning’s relative to what we should do in Germany along with the fact that whenever you execute a “best practice” it can’t be adopted.
It has to be adapted which is also the difference between McBaguette and Casse Croute.
So relative to Germany that’s one of the things that we knew we had to be able to do.
France I want to echo a comment I made around cautiously optimistic.
I think our French team as are we; we have seen some a trend a positive results.
France is still an economy that’s got some troubles to it.
There is a VAT increase that I mentioned we also have some there is some decisions that will be made soon relative to the French government from a social charge and austerity based prospective.
We will have to take a look at we hope that it will stimulate the economy which will be good for everyone but right now France is still at a point where the 2014 IEO projection is to be down 10 basis points and so it is not a market that is come out yet but we have seen some positive things and in the face of all of those our teams have done a fabulous job.
Southern Europe is an area that still has some challenges.
And those are macroeconomic challenges.
And we just got to make sure we maintained relevance in that area.
So Europe as we always say Europe is not a country.
And so when you divide it across the various segments we see some positive areas and then we see some areas that are still difficult.
So we are optimistically looking at performance across Europe but there are still some challenges there.
And just to add Jeff the IEO projections are really modest going forward the UK plus 50 basis points and Germany plus 50 to 80 basis points.
Hi thanks very much.
I have two questions for you if you don’t mind.
The first one is on the high-density tables and when I hear additional capacity or additional customization is the sense that occurs in the – I think slower service times more than I do faster service times and I apologize for this question because I actually haven’t those tables in news so I don’t really understand how they work.
So how does additional customization not equal slow at service times? And then two can you may be provide a definition of what met internal expectations means just because the use of the triple times relative to initiatives in 2014 that really haven’t delivered whether it’s reps or (indiscernible)? Well they may have met internal expectations they didn’t really drive the business forward and they are also now using that term associated with the dollar the new dollar menu and more? Thank you.
Hi Howard.
I will take the piece on internal expectations and I’ll let Tim to talk more about the high density kitchen and impact on operations.
But when we say internal expectations we have clearly a business case for each and every individual initiative that we implement.
We have certain criteria that we establish whether that be based upon guest count growth it might be sales growth profitability aspects.
So we look at those business cases and we have internal expectations set around certain targets.
We also have expectations set around the overall accretive nature of an initiative to the broader business.
And so when we look as we measure whether or not something was effective and whether or not we are successful we measured against those internal criteria.
You guys typically hear us talk about the consolidation of all of the initiatives which then roll up into an incremental benefit in a comp sales or something that might be associated with our operating income at a total level.
Howard on the capacity anytime during our peak hours if I can keep people in place and not have their feet moving to restock or to get something else or have crossed over last year we deleted angus it’s a slow moving product for us.
So we are working with two proteins and a beef in the kitchen.
When I can have the capacity in the prep table well people don’t have to move I am just putting different toppings on.
You have got the protein coming down the prep table like an assembly line if you will and we are just adding different condiments on.
And again monitoring the pace and the rate of new products that we bring and giving our crews and management ample time to train and get used to before we switch it up and change it on.
Across your biggest markets have you noticed any change in the competitive environment over the let’s say the last month or two that’s kind of a deviation from the trend?  Well in the U.S.
last month in fourth quarter we had I guess a higher competition as it pertains to value and discounts and so on.
And I would say maybe a little bit more in China in the fourth quarter and maybe specifically in Australia but it’s a very competitive market out there lot of price going on and it’s a fight for market share.
It’s a street fight and we are getting at it.
Thank you.
I actually wanted to follow-up on margins because the restaurants company-operated restaurant margins look better broadly speaking than I would have expected given some of the sluggish top line and what you have said about your leverage point.
So the two questions are can you just talk a little bit more about where there might be opportunities there on that line item.
Going forward you said costs are going to be a headwind but just how well you can manage that line? And then related note the outlook for food away from home and food at home inflation and positive fruition [ph] but I don’t think we’re really seeing that in the commodity markets.
Can you talk about what you think of as kind of your sweet spot translation where you have the ability to take price but it's not so much that it's a real drag on margins physically with U.S.
and then broadly.
Thanks.
In talking about margins the fourth quarter actually did exceed our own internal expectations when we started the quarter.
So if you recall I gave some guidance that imply we expected margins to be down a little bit more in the fourth quarter than they really were and if you look as we look at the reasons for that it was really France and Russia outperformed in the fourth quarter relative to their initial expectations and actually Germany didn’t decline as much as they had originally expected.
So Europe was a big piece of that but also the U.S.
as I alluded to earlier some of the check benefit that we got from the Dollar Menu and More in the two months it was in was to the positive side as a ledger and also their cost came in just slightly under where they had expected for the quarter.
So it was a combination of factors in different markets that led to that.
When we think about 2014 you know food away from home projection of 2.5% to 3.5% the reason I said in my remarks that we expect an update shortly is with the commodity trends and everything else that’s going on.
That number might come down a little bit.
Now certainly it does also include labor in the restaurants and I mentioned minimum wage increases in 14 states is a piece of impacting that as well but right now we’re going to continue to monitor that indices.
We’re also going to look at food at home again that only grew 40 basis points this year.
I doubt it will grow 2.5% to 3.5% which is the current forecast based on where commodity trends are but at the end of the day we’re going to look at the pricing as we always do to try to balance growing traffic in the restaurants but also looking at profitability all through that screen that Don mentioned of continuing to improve our relevance with our customers and value is also one area to where relevance to customers matters.
All right we’re running a little low on time we’re getting close.
So we’re going to take a couple more.
Next is Andy Barish from Jefferies.
This is Alex Chan for Andy.
I wanted to go back to talking about APMEA.
During 2012 it seemed like check was really down and traffic kind of held up and this past year in 2013 that kind of reversed I guess how do you find the balance there and when you look at that how do you think about China and kind of avoiding that same issue?  Well China specifically they got as an industry hit the QSR and ideal [ph] with the chicken situation that happened in December of 2012 and then the rehit of the Avian influenza and a downturn in just the macroeconomics.
Something not unlike what we saw back in 2008 we bounced back in 2009 and 2010 and ’11.
So we in China specifically we stick to our strategy.
We feel we have got a sound strategy; we’re being strategic on our openings.
We are being strategic on our menu pricing and our points of distribution.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Will Slabaugh from Stephens.
I had a follow-up question on margins at the restaurant level in particular.
At the Analyst Day you talked about the three straight years of margin compression.
So I wondered if you can speak more specifically to that path and margin stabilization.
Could that occur this year and then maybe more specifics around what that expansion might look like and how that might take place from here?  As we looked at the margins over the last couple of years actually just recently looking at a kind of a detailed breakdown by quarter-by-quarter by the line items.
One thing that was consistent across the years is that you know the cost pressures kind of in general were in a fairly tight range.
It wasn’t a huge spike one way or the other absent commodities which could have more of a significant impact but they weren’t a significant driver of the margin decline as much as the variation in the top line.
And I know we sound a bit like a broken record but the importance of driving comps in our business to margin profitability is so important and then getting back to that relationship with the customer improving our relevance is going to lead to that improving top line which then has that margin flow-through benefit and restaurant level cash flow growth it’s really the key to getting the economic engine moving in the right direction again.
Strengthening the brand to differentiate it was one of the stated intense and another one was the primary focus of the cash flows is to reinvest in the business.
I am just wondering given that strength in underlying cash flow generation in a balance sheet that yes I think it clearly provide incremental capital should you want to do why not accelerate investments now both re-imaging and kitchen investments simultaneously.
Is there an operational hurdle to doing so because it seems like this is a major competitive advantage that McDonald’s has because in acceleration of this reinvestment in this environment be one of the ways to rekindle and reignite that relationship with the consumer? Thanks.
Hi Keith.
I am going to speak to (indiscernible) and I will ask Pete to speak to the other part.
The notion of accelerating reinvestment one of the things that we found across the business and history has dictated to us is that you have to have a balanced focus as we grow the business.
So one of the reasons that you haven’t seen us just say we are going to put all of our dollars right into China and let’s just go hard because we also have other emerging markets that we also want to grow and we want to grow consistently.
By growing consistently it allows us to build up the associated infrastructure from a supply chain perspective the talent that we need to manage the market and build out the real estate development as well as our ability to be able to put dollars into market and create awareness within those markets to build comparable sales to be able to be a sustaining business model.
And so as we look at some of the areas around our capital investment and deployment we want to be balanced and measured.
If it’s something like a kitchen based reinvestment there is a pace that you can’t go at in the restaurant and at the same time make sure that you are maintaining the penultimate focus which is to focus on customer satisfaction and expectations.
If we change all of the market at one time and went out and got a bunch of general contractors what we would find is that we would lessen our ability to satisfy customers and we wouldn’t spread out these activities and execute and affect the plan.
So this is one of the reasons you guys talk about we will have a moderate and a steady pace but on a base as large as ours our steady pace is pretty aggressive for other people.
And so this is the reason we say that.
There are some other implications than Pete to probably talk about a couple of those from a financial perspective.
Yes Keith.
I mean it is much less about the capital because as you know we have the ability to throw more at it but you alluded to operational it is sequencing and getting these things done in a way it takes a lot of planning and resources both internal and external contractors to change out the kitchen equipment in 14 000 restaurants around the U.S.
So all of the time and energy you need to focus on that to the extent you also try to focus on accelerating re-imaging and a lot of the same kind of contractors or internal people are needed for both types of projects you do start to dilute the effect and not get the desired outcome.
In addition we have over 2 000 franchisees in the U.S.
So this has to also be done through them considering their individual capacity their individual cash flows their individual organization strengths.
So while I agree with you on paper it sounds like going faster could be a quicker path to getting some of these relevancy issues dealt with that Don mentioned.
The reality and practical nature of a large franchise system with somewhat limited resources in terms of the competencies to work on these kind of projects gets us to kind of the pace that we are adding.
And to Don’s point I think it is a fairly aggressive pace in and of itself.
So once again thanks everyone for joining us on the call today.
We really appreciate that and we appreciate your interest in McDonald’s.
Our confidence in our brand and the competitive advantages of our systems are truly a reflection of our ability to learn from our past to be quite purposeful and agile in the present conditions and environments that we operate in and strategically plan and evolve with our customers as we look to the future.
As we mentioned from the onset we are confident in the McDonald’s business and we’re confident that we have the right information data and business acumen to address the key markets and the other opportunities that we have going forward.
So thank you all once again and have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Hello and welcome to the McDonald’s April 22 2014 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald’s Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today’s presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald’s Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson and our Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen.
Today’s conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also applies to our comments.
And these documents are both available on our website at www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are any reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today’s call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
For now I’d like to turn it over to Don.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
We began 2014 with our strategies and our business miles sound and intact.
From a financial standpoint our system’s number one goal remains enduring profitable growth which starts with continuing to grow customer visits and comparable sales.
From our diversified geographic portfolio that leverages the entrepreneurial power of local ownership to the breadth of our menu across day parts and meal occasions our strategies infrastructure and investments support this goal.
And while we expect the market dynamics to remain similar to 2013 we do have experienced effectively competing in challenging operating environments and I remain confident in our ability to be successful at McDonald’s.
Our global growth priorities are focused on ensuring that we remain relevant and appealing so that more customers will visit us more often.
We’re focused on optimizing our menu so that we offer our customers food and drinks that have strong appeal on modernizing the customer experience in our restaurants so that that experience for each customer is more memorable; and on broadening accessibility so that we deliver on unparalleled convenience.
The key to our growth lies in our ability to place the customer at the center of everything that we do.
Over the past few months I had the opportunity to visit our priority markets the U.S.
Germany Japan and Australia with Steve Easterbrook Pete Benson and Tim Fenton.
We focused on more deeply understanding how each of those markets are adjusting their plans to address current challenges and adapt to the environment and to our customers’ expectations.
There were four opportunities that were common to these markets and are being fortified in many other countries in which we operate.
First we're strengthening our planning process to more effectively bridge consumer insights into the right customer center plans and actions while striking the right balance against our internal financial objectives.
Second we're strengthening our marketing messaging to better resonate with customers and create stronger awareness.
Third we're enhancing our affordability platforms to ensure our value offers are consistent and clearly message.
We want our customers to feel good about the value that they get when they visit us at McDonald’s.
And finally we're more effectively balancing our focus on the core menu including the Big Mac Egg McMuffin and our world famous fries.
Our core products are familiar favorites for our customers.
They truly represent McDonald’s to all of our customers and at about 40% of total sales they are an incredible business asset for us that requires a constant drumbeat of communication.
Now our area of the world our local market teams are translating these learnings along with specific market findings into comprehensive action plans to improve the customer experience.
A good example is the recent changes made in U.S.
marketing to more directly align our marketing efforts with targeted consumer segments.
I’ll talk more about this change and actions being taken in the other priority markets a little bit later.
It’s important to underscore that it will take time for consumers to notice the changes and reward us with increased visits.
This is not about a silver bullet; rather it’s about optimally sequencing multiple customer focus initiatives and executing them very well.
While we expect results in these core markets to remain volatile in the near-term we are confident in our ability to improve overtime.
Now beyond our priority markets we continue to pursue targeted growth initiatives that drive system wide performance.
In addition to our ongoing emphasis on menu these include brand extensions like McCafé beverages desert kiosks and delivery; they include increasing our global footprint through new restaurant opening in both established and emerging markets and by continuing to modernize our restaurants through reimaging.
And also by leveraging the investments that we have already made in the restaurants particularly relative to restaurant technology like our global point of sell platform and in-store wireless access to support our digital efforts focused on engaging more deeply with our customers and differentiating the McDonald’s experience.
Finally in addition to market level activities we are also evaluating opportunities to enhance shareholder value while maintaining long-term financial strength.
Now Pete will speak more about this area of focus in his comments.
Let me switch gears now and discuss global results.
Year-to-date March our global comparable sales increased 50 basis points with positive performance in all segments except the U.S.
Operating income was up 1% in constant currencies and earnings per share was $1.21 a 2% decrease in constant currencies.
Comparable guest counts for the quarter continue to be negative.
Our priority markets of the U.S.
Germany Japan and Australia drove that decline.
Comparable guest counts would have been positive excluding those markets while recent signs indicate economies maybe stabilizing several of our major markets the projections for the informal eating out industry call for flat to modest growth in 2014.
With this as a backdrop April global comparable sales are expected to be modestly positive.
Let’s now move to performance by area of the world and address our priorities going forward.
In the U.S.
comparable sales for the quarter were down 1.7% and operating income declined 3% driven by negative guest counts due impart to severe winter weather.
The U.S.
is focused on strengthening the customer experience through better operations and service execution balanced focus between our core and new products and enhancing marketing effectiveness while maximizing our opportunities to grow our breakfast.
Because service is such a foundational element of the customer experience we recognized the need to elevate our service levels to ultimately build visits.
During the first six months of this year our franchise and company-owned restaurants are engaged in what we call a reset which emphasizes the importance of proper staffing scheduling and positioning of crew to build restaurant capacity particularly during peak hours.
Now early I mentioned changes that have been made within our U.S.
marketing group.
We’ve adjusted our marketing calendar so that we are introducing the appropriate number of new and promotional products.
And we are better sequencing them to maximize restaurant execution and the contribution to comparable sales.
We are also looking to harness the power of our marketing strength especially in support of our core menu.
We are focused on creating a greater emotional connection between customers and our core products through our advertising and media spend.
Those things combined with the fresh perspective of our new U.S.
Chief Marketing Officer these balanced menu changes and focused media strategies will allow us to strengthen our appeal to customers by offering them what they truly want great food and great service at an affordable price.
Finally as the leader of the important and growing breakfast day part we’ll continue to build on the strength of our morning business.
Today customers choose McDonald's because of our great product cooked in our restaurants and our kitchens.
We grab fresh eggs we grill sausage and bake it we bake biscuits and we toast muffins all to serve up a delicious breakfast that is accompanied by our outstanding McCafe coffee.
These things truly set us apart and position us to continue growing this day part into the future.
Now moving over to Europe.
Comparable sales were up 1.4% for the quarter and operating income was up 4% in constant currency.
Positive comparable sales performance in the UK France and Russia was partially offset by Germany’s negative results.
While we’re encouraged by positive comparable sales trends and recent economic indicators that appear to be stabilizing in many markets across Europe we remained cautious in the near-term given a tenuous operating environment.
Both the UK and Russia have successfully focused on growing breakfast while balancing the core menu with strong promotional activity that is resonating with local customers.
In France successful marketing support for premium products and limited time offers along with the stronger affordability platform have contributed to the 8th consecutive month of positive comparable sales growth amid of declining IEO industry.
Germany is one of the priority markets with persistent negative sales and guest count momentum.
The new management team is working to rebuild consumer trust through a more relevant and consistent affordability platform.
We’ve also adjusted our menu and marketing calendar to do a better job of connecting with customers by reducing and better balancing our core menu favorites with new food and beverage offers.
Now let’s shift to Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa where comparable sales were up 80 basis points for the quarter and operating income decreased 2% in constant currencies.
Solid comparable sales performance in China and many other markets was somewhat offset by weakness in Japan and to a lesser extent Australia.
In China comparable sales increased 6.6% for the quarter partly reflecting the lap of the residual effects of consumer sensitivity related to last year’s supply chain issue in the chicken industry.
China’s ongoing focus on brand extensions like delivery and dessert kiosks is strengthening our appeal as a convenient brand.
Sales from our delivery business continue to grow at a double-digit pace.
And while about 30% of the total restaurants in China offer delivery these restaurants are concentrated in our key cities and offer additional customer benefits such as minimum delivery times and 24-hour service.
We continue to see significant growth potential throughout APMEA.
In China we plan to open about 300 new restaurants this year.
We also continue to accelerate our franchising efforts; about 15% of restaurants in China are franchised as of the end of the quarter and we are on track to achieve our mid-term target of 20% to 25% franchise restaurants.
In Australia recent comparable sales are negative due in part to the shift and timing of the monopoly promotion this year.
The market is enhancing its affordability platform by adding new meal bundles to the Loose Change menu to strengthen our value offer and remind customers that we have something for everyone.
Japan continues to experience negative comparable sales in guest count trends amid a highly competitive environment.
Looking ahead Japan is focused on offering more relevant food and beverage choices increasing the focus on the family business and repositioning the affordability platform to rebuild our customer connection and stabilize our performance.
As we look forward the market is also monitoring consumer reaction to the 3% consumption tax increase that occurred on April 1st.
Around the world we’re working hard to ensure our actions are driven by what our customers want and need from us today and tomorrow.
As our business continues to generate significant levels of cash our philosophy regarding the use of cash remains unchanged.
Our first priority is to reinvest in the business to capitalize on the sizeable long-term growth opportunities that exist.
And after reinvesting in the business we’re committed to returning all of our free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
In the first quarter we returned $1.2 billion to shareholders through dividend and share repurchases combined.
I want to close by reemphasizing my confidence in McDonald’s future.
Approximately 70 million customers per day across a geographically diverse portfolio of over 35 000 restaurants is a very strong foundation from which we operate.
Our infrastructure and our fundamentals are sound.
We’re leveraging the power of our proven business model our investments in restaurant capabilities and modernization and our hard earned competitive advantages to pursue the sizable opportunities that are before us.
At the same time we’re thoughtfully evolving our approach to remain relevant making appropriate adjustments to navigate near term challenges while driving enduring profitable growth for our system and for our shareholders over the long term.
Thanks again everyone and I will now turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
The McDonald’s system entered the year with the realistic view of our near term opportunities get a firm focus on our path to long term success.
We are diligently managing those things within our control while continuing to position the McDonald’s system for future growth.
The battle for market share is expected to persist given projections for flat to modest category growth in our major markets this year.
But over the long term the $1.2 trillion global and formal leading out category should grow more significantly and I expect McDonald’s to fully participate in that growth.
One of the reasons I am confident in McDonald’s future is the strong phase off of which we operate.
First quarter results were in line with our expectations and highlighted the resiliency of our system and financial model.
Though top line growth was challenged McDonald’s generated $1.9 billion of operating income.
This is an impressive number.
But I am even more encouraged by the significant long term opportunities we see to drive future growth.
Turning to first quarter performance.
We are primarily a franchiser with 81% of our global restaurants franchised; as such our profitability is driven primarily by top line performance.
Modest comparable sales growth combined with higher expenses and lower gains from sales of restaurants contributed to a 60 basis point decline in our combined operating margin to 28.9% through March.
The largest component of operating income is our franchise margins representing approximately 70% of total restaurant margin dollars franchise margins which are driven by a relatively steady and predictable stream of rent and royalties grew to approximately $1.8 billion in the first quarter a 3% constant currency increase driven primarily by expansion.
The consolidated franchise margin percent decreased 60 basis points to 81.1% highlighting the need for stronger comparable sales gains to offset increased expenses and maintain this margin percent.
Global company operated margin dollars grew to $723 million while the margin percent decreased 10 basis points to 16.1% due to higher labor commodity and occupancy cost which were offset by positive comparable sales.
In the U.S.
company operated margins decreased 10 basis points to 17.3% as the positive impact from higher average check primarily driven by pricing was offset by negative guest counts and higher commodity and crew labor costs.
First quarter commodity cost in the U.S.
rose nearly 3% driven primarily by higher protein cost.
We expect similar pressure in second quarter than easing throughout the second half of the year.
The full year outlook for the U.S.
grocery basket remains a 1% to 2% increase.
At the end of March the price increase in the U.S.
was about 3% higher versus a year ago.
While the food away from home inflation index is 2.3% through March it is projected to be up 2.5% to 3.5% for the full year.
In addition we have seen more significant increases over the past two months in food at home inflation which is also projected to increase 2.5% to 3.5% for the full year.
We watch these indices closely yet are also mindful of cost pressures not only in 2014 but next year as well when making our pricing decisions.
Turning to Europe company operated margins increased 30 basis points to 17% as strong performance in France and the UK was partially offset by higher commodity costs in Russia due to the impact of the weaker Russian ruble on import cost.
Europe’s grocery bill was relatively flat in the first quarter and we expect more pressure in the second half of the year with the full year increase still projected at 1% to 2%.
And across Europe the average menu price increase excluding Russia is about 2%.
In Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa company-operated margins declined 60 basis points to 14% as positive comparable sales were offset by higher labor occupancy and other costs while the margin percent grew in several markets including China and Australia refranchising in Australia and the weaker Australian dollar negatively impacted the segment’s overall margin percentage.
In addition the new restaurant openings primarily in China contributed to the lower margin percent though to a lesser extent than in 2013.
G&amp;A for the quarter increased 4% in constant currencies.
Over half of this increase was due to our sponsorship of the Winter Olympic and parallel Olympic games in Sochi.
We expect to experience a more significant G&amp;A increase next quarter due to our worldwide convention and cost related to other initiatives such as restaurant growth capacity enhancements and our digital capabilities.
First quarter effective tax rate was 32.4% and represented a significant increase versus the prior year rate of 30.1% which was aided by a tax benefit of nearly $50 million.
We continue to project the 2014 full year rate to be between 31% and 33%.
We [already] committed to investing in our business to drive future growth and returns we allocate capital in a discipline measured way opening new units across a diversified portfolio of markets while making prudent investments in existing restaurants.
We are on track to open 1 500 to 1 600 new restaurants this year including about 500 in affiliated and developmental licensee markets.
We also expect to reimage over a 1 000 existing restaurants.
The rollout of the new kitchen equipment in the U.S.
is progressing nicely and we are on track to have it installed in all restaurants by mid-year.
As I discussed at a couple of investor conferences last month we are moving with more urgency to address recent financial performance in our priority markets.
In addition to these efforts which Don covered we're actively looking at ways to improve shareholder returns by optimizing our capital structure while maintaining our long term financial strength; optimizing our ownership structure including certain refranchising activities especially in markets outside of the U.S.
and scrutinizing ongoing G&amp;A while appropriately supporting our franchisees and our growth initiatives.
As I said at the conferences these additional areas of focus do not represent a change in strategy or financial philosophy they fit squarely within our business model.
We are not beginning with a given target in any of these areas but instead are evaluating them with the ultimate screen of creating value by doing what is right for the business over the long-term.
Financial discipline has been a cornerstone of a plan to win and that certainly will continue because I believe a strong financial foundation is a critical component to building enduring profitable growth.
It's premature to comment on any specifics but we expect to provide an update on our progress over the next couple of months.
Lastly let me touch on foreign currency translation which negatively impacted first quarter results by $0.03.
At current rates including the stronger euro we expect second quarter EPS to be minimally impacted with a full year negative impact of about $0.03 to $0.04.
As usual this is directional guidance only because I know rates will change as we move throughout the year.
In closing I'm confident in our fundamental business model and our competitive position.
We're the global leader in a $1.2 trillion industry yet have less than 8% market share providing significant opportunity for future growth.
Our geographically diversified portfolio and various ownership structures allow us to optimize our investments within a market.
We are aligned with our outstanding owner operators and suppliers to leverage our distinct competitive advantages.
And we are making strategic investments today to seize those opportunities to create long-term value for our customers shareholders and the entire McDonald’s system.
Thanks.
Now I’ll turn it over to Kathy to begin our Q&amp;A.
Thanks Pete.
We’re going to open the call now for analysts and investor questions.
(Operator Instructions).
So our first question is from Joe Buckley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Could you give us a little bit more color on the U.S.
kitchen assembly prep tables maybe how many stores have them currently and I know you said you expected the rollout to be complete by mid-year but also in addition to the number since what you’ve learned so far in terms of speed to service or greater product assortment to variety? Hi Joe this is Don.
Just a little bit on the prep tables.
The high density prep tables and I think that’s what you’re talking about relative to the kitchen changes in the U.S.
are really they are key enabler for the future menu and the reason that they are is that they give us a few things we don’t have today.
One of those being room to add more ingredients another being [material well] which enables us to include fresh ingredients.
It also helps us relative to the way that the kitchens are structured so that we have a mere image of time and it’s on both sides of our preparation table.
And we won’t have to ergonomically; you won’t have to reach across the table for our crew to be able to prepare some of our foods our sandwiches and our products.
These things together really help support our future vision of the menu and that doesn’t necessarily mean that we are going to add a lot of things but what it does means is it gives us the capability to optimize some of the products we have and it gives us the flexibility to have some new toppings that will help us to be able to customize some of the food products that we have.
The U.S.
is on track to meet its completion goal by mid-year and it’s going quite well.
In addition to that Joe the other thing that the U.S.
is doing now and I mentioned it in my comments is what we call is reset which is focusing back on staffing and scheduling and positioning.
This is really really critical because at this point in time and with the volumes that we have in the restaurant we want to make sure that we can handle the peak hour capacities that hit the restaurants.
And so a combination of those things with the way that we’re rationalizing the menu to make sure we are not implementing too many new products with a better balance of focusing on the core and new products those things all together are really what this major focus in the U.S.
is right now and it’s kind of a back to the basics with some enhancements in terms of our productivity and capability in the restaurants.
Our next question is from Brian Bittner from Oppenheimer.
Thank you.
It just feels like the biggest opportunity here in the near-term is Europe it’s 40% of profit contribution very similar to the U.S.
and your operating profit did decline in the U.S.
and APMEA but it was positive 6% in Europe and I think this was despite your largest European market Germany being negative.
And so just focus on Germany for a second tell us really what you think is going on that can help turnaround some of those self inflected balloons in that country? And really I just feel if Germany gets turn Europe can really accelerate from here and therefore the profits of the company can really accelerate from here.
So if you could just focus on Germany for a moment that will be helpful?  Absolutely Brian so a couple of things in a broader set.
As we talked about the key priority markets and I mentioned some of things that we saw relative to commonalities.
And those things really are what I will consider to be a translation of consumer insights into the action plans very strong and making sure that we are not trying to merely drive profitability on the end but we’re focused on customers and the insights around customers.
There are several things relative to Germany and these things are being addressed now by the leadership team that’s there.
One is Germany is a very price sensitive market.
And if we look at our performance we have a couple of main issues; one being our core EVM movement and from a competitive perspective actually the bakeries in Germany are doing quite well.
What customers have mentioned to us is that there is several things that we need to focus on; one is to reestablish our relevance because our menu boards have done a little bit out of whack.
What I mean by that we’ve implemented a lot of new products similar to some of the implementations in the U.S.
system and it really has confused customers to a certain extent.
The other thing has to do with our pricing and our strategic relationship on the menu board.
And this basically is the relationship between the value-based components and the rest of the limited time offers and the core EVMs.
We’ve got to make sure that there is a much more rational and strategic pricing structure our teams are working on that.
And lastly is the balancing of marketing and that is the balance between our core menu that I’ve talked about with Big Macs Royales or Quarters fries how we leverage and talk about those things along with value along with limited time offers offers like the (inaudible) products in Germany.
And so the combination of having a consistent balance there with having a consistent messaging around affordability and also making sure that we reestablished the relevance particularly with the offers we convey via our menu boards and marketing are the things the market’s focused on.
As we were having our session in Germany it’s clear that the new leadership team that we have in place there is focused on these things.
We also had a chance to meet with the franchisees in the Germany.
They are very understanding of the situation that we’re in there.
And frankly one of the things that galvanizes McDonald’s system is when you have poor performance and an impacted cash flow.
And I know that our franchisees along with our company team there and it is a new team are all focused on improving the situation there and improving our aggressiveness in the marketplace.
Next question is from John Glass from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Pete when you talked about optimizing the business model little more can you of the three big buckets you’ve outlined which do you think is going to have the biggest impact or potentially the biggest impact to shareholder returns? And can you talk about how you plan to convey this information is it in next quarter or is it inter-quarter and is this the whole plan or is it just kind of an update we’ll get a lot of these updates along the way?  All right good question John.
I think you have to take -- the three levers that I mentioned you really have to take those in combination with what Don said in his comments about the focus on the four priority markets.
So taking all of that together is really the combination of all of that is what’s going to drive the value over the long-term for shareholders and the system not anyone of those items in isolation.
And as Don mentioned to turn the sales trends line in those big markets it’s going to take a little bit of time.
And so as we look at what else is there within our business model that in the meantime we can do to be accretive to value looking at opportunities on the balance sheet as we said though we want to maintain that single A rating that’s been a cornerstone of our business model over the last 50 plus years and is an important piece of our financial strength and flexibility.
Refranchising; at 81% franchised obviously that’s our primary method of doing business.
While we’ve done refranchising over the last couple of years we think there is opportunities to accelerate that.
And so of the financial lever that's probably the one that has the most opportunity to drive value.
And that by its nature is going to be a multi-year plan when we talk about the details.
It's going to be a multi-year plan and it's really primarily focused outside the U.S.
And but it's also prudent for us to take a look at our G&amp;A spend especially as we know there are growth opportunities in areas like digital where we want to allocate more funds and rather than have all of that be incremental we're looking for ways to reallocate so that we can finance those and live within a certain G&amp;A envelope.
So you can expect to hear from us by the end of the second quarter.
And I think what you'd expect to hear is something broadly that covers kind of all of those areas and not just one or two of the specifics.
Next question is from Jeff Farmer from Wells Fargo.
Great thanks.
Good morning.
What are the opportunities you see at breakfast? Have you increasingly focused on a day part as a potential same-store sales driver? It seems like it's been your attention there has been up to a little bit here recently? Thanks Jeff.
First of all relative to breakfast I mentioned in my comments customers choose breakfast at McDonald’s because our breakfast tastes great.
It has very very high consumer score freshly prepared products every morning as I mentioned we actually crack eggs we cook in our restaurants.
This is not a microwave deal we actually cook.
We have grills and fryers and ovens.
And so that's the reason that we're able to prepare breakfast.
The other thing is our breakfast model is also focused on how we serve up that breakfast quickly the customers that are on the go.
And so we continue to focus on those areas of strength that we have.
And we have been serving breakfast now for over 30 years and it is our strongest one of our strongest dayparts clearly clearly one of the strongest from a profitability perspective the strongest.
And so we will continue to focus on our breakfast opportunities.
The U.S.
is focused today primarily on breakfast be a coffee and then our handheld sandwiches that we have at breakfast and also on some of the quality and freshness use that I have just talked about.
And so those things will continue to focus on continue to focus on the operational opportunities we have there in staffing and the scheduling and positioning of breakfast as well.
Next question is from David Tarantino from Baird.
Hi good morning.
Just one quick clarification on the last question then a separate question.
First on the breakfast sort of initiative or focus there; is that being done in response to this competitive activity for example the Taco Bell launch and maybe could you comment on whether that is having an impact on your business or not? And then the second question comes back to the focus on the reset initiative in the U.S.
And it sounds like maybe some of the initiative there is focused on better handling the complexity but one of the things that you haven’t talked about is whether you’d be interested in reducing some of the menu complexity to sort of fine-tune the operations and whether or not that’s an opportunity; so perhaps could you comment on that as well? Thanks.
Thanks David.
Just a couple of points one is there has been breakfast competition for a number of years in the U.S.
market.
And we’ve had some of our major competitors that may run at breakfast and seems every year there is a someone new that is making a run and none of them have really stopped their focus on breakfast whether that’d will be the closer end and competitors or if that’s sandwich shops or that’s taco shops or anything else.
Everyone has an opportunity and they wanted to look at breakfast.
We have not seen an impact relative to the most recent competitors that entered the space.
One of the things that happens at breakfast if anyone enters customers would try the breakfast that it’s new it will be something that they have not seen in the marketplace.
So we expect customers to try.
But what we also are confident in is our ability to execute at breakfast with again the things that I mentioned relative to being a restaurant to cooks and we have a delivery service that’s capable of satisfying the time need if you would of consumers.
I think that new entrants into the market always bring a different level of attention to breakfast which in many cases supports us.
Our breakfast continues to be a positive driver in our business in the U.S.
And actually sometimes when these entrants come in it forces us to focus even more on being aggressive relative to breakfast.
I know you have just recently seen the coffee execution in the U.S.
and our free coffee offers which really are about supporting our breakfast and supporting our breakfast foods as much as they are about reintroducing Americans to a delicious cup of McCafe coffee.
So those are the things we do there.
On the reset end I did mention in my comments a bit about reducing potentially this reduces the complexity.
When you have a number of builds in the restaurant basically what you are doing is you are leveraging the various condiments and products in the restaurant to build those sandwiches.
If you can go to a more streamlined menu board approach and then still have those comments or condiments so the customers can customize a bit  it will help in terms of reducing if you will complexity.
Having said that though customers want very taste.
And so we need to be able to deliver that.
They also want familiar favorites like the Big Macs and Quarter Pounders Filet-O-Fish Nuggets price and we need to be able to deliver on that.
And we will be able to do both of those things the system that the U.S.
is putting in place on reset just calls us back to a basic operations focus on our restaurant.
And it helps us to enable better productivity with some of the things such as the high-density prep table and the high-density kitchen set as we have.
Next question is from David Palmer from RBC.
Good morning.
In your prepared remarks you mentioned that you’re strengthening your planning process to effectively bridge consumer insights with the right customer centric plans and marketing.
I am curious about what that means have we already seen the fruits of these changes in your marketing are big changes coming soon perhaps you can give us a sense of what you think is the marketing opportunity after some self diagnosis? Thanks.
Several different points thanks David for the question several points mentioned.
On the consumer insights we have tremendous amounts of data within the McDonald's system.
Question is whether the data is then being translated directly to the specific action plans that we see being executed in the marketplace.
And that is a combined effort between the franchisees and the market our leadership teams and our supply chain and our supply chain leaders.
So we’ve got to make sure that we’re translating those consumer insights.
The whole notion here is that you can’t be driven based upon optimizing profitability even in the face of external pressures relative to the P&amp;L.
We still got to remain grounded in the consumers and that is what we saw at some slight gaps on the priority market.
So we’ve got to get back to that consumer focus while mindful of some of these additional cost pressures to make sure that the plans are robust enough.
But that is combined with several other things that I mentioned one is the marketing messages.
So if we are more streamlined and focused relative to this consumer insights to action plan then the marketing focus and the messages won’t be so disbarred.
And what we’ll be able to do is focus that strength and highlight that strength a little bit more solidly.
The other thing that we saw was that affordability is one of those things that tends to get a little bit of less focus in tougher times and so in many of the markets we fell off of our affordability messaging a bit in some of the markets they are coming back on that.
And then the core menu balance we were chasing a few too many limited time offers.
So for these primary focal markets this is going to take time.
I mean our planning process you know us well we plan with the franchisees and we plan not just two or three months ahead we plan six months nine months and usually a year ahead of time.
So it’s going to take a while to see some of these things layered in.
But it is about a series of multiple initiatives it’s not a silver bullet and these things will take a bit of time.
But I feel confident that our markets now are focused on leveraging the right processes incorporating the right discussion points with the franchisees and moving the business for the long term in the appropriate manner.
Next question is from Jason West from Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Just one around the overall portfolio review as part of also looking at CapEx and organic growth rate that’s been picking up a little bit the last few years and I know you guys taking a harder look at whether that’s the right growth rate for the business and the right CapEx spend for the business?  Jason an outcome so the refranchising plans are being built up market by market.
So as we said we didn’t start this with a particular targeted mind but we want the markets to come back to us based on their knowledge of franchisees their local business environment their growth potential et cetera and come back to us with a more aggressive refranchising plan than they have today.
And certainly one of the outcomes of that will be as we get more franchised that is less capital intensive.
So it will allow us to grow at the same pace at this pace that we’ve been growing at 2.5% to 3% new units with less capital.
And so it is definitely an outcome it’s not the primary objective of looking at the refranchising but it is certainly an outcome it makes us a little less capital intensive.
But it also makes it converts that a company operated earning stream into the more stable and predictable rent and royalty franchising income stream which we think is the most valuable piece of all of this.
Next question is from Will Slabaugh from Stephens.
Yes thanks guys.
Regarding the U.S.
can you talk about how you’d gauge the customer reaction so far at the Dollar Menu and More? And how you think you’re positioned there versus your peers to lower end? And at the same time could you kind of talk about that in the context of necessity there for a dramatic innovation to premium end as a big lever or is it at pressing in the near term at least as driving value and getting people in the door through your value proposition there? Okay.
I want to make sure I kissed the last part of that again possibility Will but I’ll give this is shot.
Relative to Dollar Menu and more again stepping back relative to value menu in the U.S.
during roughly the last 10 12 year history the U.S.
has evolved the Dollar Menu to ensure the menu offers our liable customer preferences several times.
Those changes have been made over this 10 year period to make sure we stay relevant.
But we’re also mindful of the profitability aspects and the execution aspects of these menus within the restaurant.
And we want to make sure that we provide the right things for our customers and we can do that over a sustained period of time.
So when we look at Dollar Menu and More it is another of those evolutions.
Dollar Menu and More as a percent of total day sales seems to be relatively in line with our historical averages.
And we’re not seeing any dramatic change to the usage of Dollar Menu and More.
And so right at this point in time Dollar Menu and More has performed to the expectations that we have had.
I think the last part Will that you have mentioned was relative to with the relative to premium products and the role that premium products played I would say is there is a balance between what we just talked about with affordability Dollar Menu and More our core menu offerings and our premium base products.
So when you see Clubhouse Burger in one of the local window -- one of the national windows you will probably see coming up in a local window it maybe some mentions of breakfast maybe some mentions of affordability or mentions of a limited time offer product.
So Clubhouse Burger work grade nationally which you will also have to marry that along with some of the value messaging you will also hear some beverage messaging and breakfast messaging.
So that marketing calendar has to accommodate all of those there is definitely a place for new food and innovation new beverages and innovation we just want to be mindful of the core offerings we have giving them the appropriate leverage in the marketing calendar as well as dayparts like breakfast.
Next question is from Matt DiFrisco from Buckingham Research.
Thank you.
My question is with respect to the price and I wanted to know how that might look with obviously a lot of states having some minimum wage and California going up to increasing their minimum wage over a couple of years here.
In your planning process is that 3% price that you mentioned domestically being held is that what we will see carried out and already assumes to absorb some of that minimum wage or is there an ongoing dialogue with franchisees as far as what type of minimum wage response they might have? Yeah Matt.
You know there are actually 13 states at the beginning of the year that raised their minimum wage anywhere from $0.10 to a $1.
And that’s before any potential federal minimum wage impact.
So as I mentioned in my remarks we look at the traditional indices that tend to guide our pricing decision.
So food away from home projected to be up 2.5 to 3.5 this year.
I think inherent in that is you do see franchisees generally around the industry not just McDonald’s anticipating some of these higher input costs.
So they have got what the states have already enacted today.
They have got the discussion about a potential at the federal level for a lot of them the healthcare mandate kicks-in in 2015 so they have to be mindful of that.
So these cost pressures are definitely on everyone’s mind as you think pricing yet as Don mentioned you have to strike that right balance between everyday affordability and providing them premium products that will drive them into the restaurant as well.
But as we get too focused on individual profitability and less focused on the customer that’s when we start to run into some of these challenges.
Our next question is from Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Great thank you very much.
Just focused on the U.S.
business and the competitive environment perhaps obviously ex the weather and I think you have talked about kind of the QSR promotional activity kind of ramping up I know you mentioned the free coffee promotion; you guys are doing more locally perhaps we have seen kind of buy one get one Big Mac type products.
So I am just wondering whether you could talk first and foremost just about the competitive environment specially with you guys having perhaps lowest share to some of your competitors over the past couple of quarters.
And as it relates to that the breakfast which it seems like so far so good that it’s fairly steady at I believe you said roughly 25% of sale I am just wondering if you can give us some insight that we don’t perhaps have on the broader category and maybe how the category is growing relative to how your 25% has grown or contracted over the past year or so? Thanks.
Thanks Jeff.
I will try to answer; I think you got about four or five different questions in there buddy.
But the first one relative to the U.S.
U.S.
comparable sales trend stabilized during the first quarter of ‘14 and we saw sequential improvement in our reported results comp results as well as narrowing of the gap to the QSR sandwich competitive set.
And excluding the impact of this year’s severe winter weather our U.S.
comparable sales for the first quarter would have been relatively flat.
We had about 1.4% a little over 1.4% impact due to weather which we don’t often talk about weather because you know next year one it’s much better we probably won’t talk about it either but truth of the matter is it did have some level of impact to us but for you I will put that in the appropriate perspective.
We don’t plan around weather at McDonald’s we plan around customers.
A couple of other things; we continue to see some the IEO industry in the U.S.
is still relatively flat.
So we know that there is going to be a market share battle so we’ve got to focus on those things that our customers are focused on and desire.
So in the U.S.
there is a focus around breakfast and coffee as I mentioned there is focused on balancing our core menu along with some of the limited time offers like you just saw with the Clubhouse Burger and Chicken Sandwich.
And we’ve got this basic focus on operations to ensure that we can satisfy the needs of customers particularly during the peak hours.
So that gives you a pretty overall perspective I’d say of our U.S.
business and the state of that.
From a breakfast perspective I mentioned it a little bit earlier our breakfast is strong and it continues to be a solid performer relative to our overall day part segments.
And what we want to make sure is that we just continue to focus on the strengths that we have.
And actually we have not talked as much about the quality aspects of our breakfast we haven’t talked as much about the fact that we have restaurant business that cooks.
There are entrants into the marketplace that don’t have the same capabilities we have.
And so we're going to leverage the strengths that we have and leverage the capabilities we have to inform customers of the fact why we’ve been in the breakfast business for over 30 years and why we have become America’s favorite place to eat breakfast and we don’t plan on giving that up.
Next question is from Sara Senatore from Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you very much.
I just want to follow-up on the U.S.
business and in particular in the context of some of the commentary about maybe focusing on profitability maybe the expenses resonating with customers.
So can you just talk a little bit about the margin structure there? First is it still the case that you need a 3% comp to lever expenses should it be higher because it sounds like you are looking more for traffic driven comp? And then I guess what’s the right margin company-operated over the long-term if I look back 20 25 years it’s averaged something close to 18% in U.S.
and Europe.
Do you see anything that suggest it should go up or down from here or structurally just that is going to change with your margins? Thanks.
Hi Sara.
I just want to make a quick comment and then I’ll turn this over to Pete on margins.
First of all we have a fantastic group of franchisees in the U.S.
business.
Matter of fact next week we have our worldwide [convention] where our franchisees from around the world will be there and we're looking forward to the dialogue and discussions we’ll have.
So when we talk about profitability what we're talking about is very viable businessman and businesswomen who look at the overall environment and are looking at some of the implications of commodities along with legislative pressures and then they will make decisions relative to their businesses.
So if we talk about a focus losing a bit of the focus on the customer it’s not because we don’t have solid business people or we have people that are trying to squeeze the business they are looking at the overall perspectives of profitability which they should do.
What we've got to make sure is that our focus relative to profitability starts and ends with a customer focus and those visits to the restaurant and that's why we talk about the balanced plans.
So I just wanted to reiterate that fact I don't think we could have better franchisees but just like us within the company we've got to make sure that we all stay focused on the customers.
And in terms of the company-operated margins Sara we've historically said in a normal environment and we've defined that as being kind of a 2% to 3% inflationary environment.
In that kind of normal environment we need a 2% to 3% comp to maintain margins.
And our assumption in that is that half of that comp is coming from check and half of that is coming from traffic.
And so what you saw this quarter is we've got a disproportionate share the comp was negative while we had over 3% price increase.
So we had a disproportionate impact of the price increase this quarter is why you saw margins down only 10 basis points.
So we as Don mentioned in those four priority markets getting the sales and guest count trend lines stabilize and going back positive is what's going to have the most significant impact on our margins.
We've always stayed at the top-line gain and we really need that comparable sales growth and the traffic growth to be able to benefit and leverage that profitability.
So that's our focus and really there has been no structural change that would cause us to believe that overtime we can't continue to grow those margins as long as we're generating those positive comps.
Your next question is from Karen Holthouse from Credit Suisse.
Hi.
What are the -- in your prepared comments you mentioned there is going to be some increased investments on the digital side in G&amp;A and how does that maybe relate to some of the things we’ve seen in the past about testing for mobile app or what sort of form some of that medium or longer term digital initiatives might add what sort of form they might take? Thanks for the question Karen.
Relative to our overall digital strategy this is something that we have been looking in many of our markets around the world for some time.
However it’s not been what I would say a systemic strategy where we’ve leveraged the overall strength of McDonald’s.
So our digital vision is to bring in entirely new level of convenience and fun to the McDonald’s experience.
And what we have done to be able to move that forward is identify a couple of areas about opportunity relative to that digital strategy one is the field -- really around experience and the fact that technology can enable us to enhance the customer interactions with our brand and many people would know of that by payment ordering redemption type opportunities as well as customer relationship management.
The second area is an area of engagement; it’s really how we engage customers both with us telling the story of some of the things we mentioned the quality messages around McDonald’s the opportunities within the McDonald’s system as well as our marketing campaigns and engaging social media to a stronger level.
So we are going to continue to do that.
And from a global strategy perspective it’s really a framework that then allows the local markets to be able to move forward more effectively will also leverage the strength of McDonald’s system globally relative to our strategic partners as we move forward.
So we’ve got several markets that are test markets around the world and we are leveraging from the things that they’ve already done.
And we are really looking to be able to scale the best ideas we have while those things are then combined with some of the global strategies and strategic partners that we have that are much larger in terms of their scope to help us along on our digital journey.
Our next question is from John Ivankoe from JP Morgan.
Great.
Hi thank you.
I think at this point just wanted to tie a couple of things up.
Don I don’t think anyone either within McDonald’s or outside of McDonald’s would have said that you are an organization that was not run without consumer insights over the last two years.
In other words you have always been a consumer insight driven company.
So I just wanted to get a sense from your perspective what really will change quantitative qualitative what have you over the next couple of years? And maybe with that you mentioned you have answered to a question in terms of how you plan with franchisees over a 6 or 12 month period in terms of products and promotions what have you.
So not necessarily in terms of the cost of G&amp;A but maybe how that G&amp;A is being spent is there a possibility of changing the way that decisions are made in the speed of which various decision are implemented at a market? In other words do you need to change kind of your entire decision making process and how things get implemented at the store level as we are clearly in the market that’s moving much faster than it was over the past decade or so?  Thanks for the question John.
We will always remain focused on being locally relevant.
And that’s the reason we have as you know John some of the market teams out there in the field and they do a great job.
And that is also to help us move quicker.
So when it comes to many things at a local level that’s the way we will continue to operate by leveraging those local teams and the local insights on consumers.
You asked a question about whether or not things have changed relative to consumer insights and data we have always had data we’ve always attempted to leverage those insights as we put forward the plans.
The only thing that’s different and we’ve been through this in cycles is that when you have external pressures a number of them sometimes our focus can shift a little bit more to how we ultimately will drive profitability at a restaurant level to handle some of those cost structures and we lose a little bit of the front-end of those insights.
And as a result we focus more on the margin side of the business than we do on the guest count side of the business.
And we know guest counts correlate to our overall results of profitability.
So all we’re saying that’s happening in the markets now is a refocusing on that front-end of the insights and a refocusing on how those insights need to translate to plans that are customer focused.
First we always will have the profitability aspects in mind as we plan but it’s got to be customer focused first.
And all of the markets and our franchisees are well aware of this but it can happen in cycles and when it does we just have to make sure we call that out and we go back to the drawing board around how we move this business based on customers.
And our last question is from Andy Barish from Jefferies.
Hey guys it’s Alex on for Andy.
I want to go back to the European business and ask you a little bit more about Russia and whether or not you saw any impact from the political unrest in the region and how that business is trending and if anything is kind of changed there in terms of the strategy with respect to value and premium products.
Thanks Alex Pete and I will kind of double team this one a little bit.
First part relative to Russia one of the things at McDonald's and we’ve done this in all of the markets around the world.
First and foremost will always be the safety of our employees and our guests.
That is of the highest level importance to us.
There has been no major incidents related to their safety in these current markets whether it’d be Russia or the Ukraine or Crimea or anything has happened in the current situation.
Our restaurants generally are operating as normal some are temporarily adjusting that evening hours based on customer traffic and we have three restaurants in Crimea that have been closed due to suspension of necessary financial and banking services.
And so that kind of gives you a state off relative to Russia.
There are some financial impacts and currency impacts and I ask Pete to speak to those.
Yes Alex.
During the quarter the ruble was down about 14% and it was down a little bit more subsequent to the quarter end.
And why that’s relevant is Russia imports almost 50% of their food that they use in the restaurants and those imports are denominated both in euro and U.S.
dollar.
So when the local currency devalues like that they have a financial impact.
So locally they had a 200 basis point impact to their margins in Russia from the devaluation that translated into about a 55 basis point impact on total Europe company operated margin solely from the devaluation.
So if you assume the ruble is going to stay at this depressed level the rest of the year that’s something we’re going to be battling with for the rest of the year in our European margins.
That said Russia has some of the most profitable restaurants around the system so they are about 10% of our consolidated margins but they are less than 5% of our overall operating income.
So in the grand scheme of things to the overall profitability they are less than 5% but they do impact the margin line somewhat disproportionately because of those imports and because of the high volumes and the high margin they do run.
Okay.
That’s all for Q&amp;A.
And I’m going to turn it over to Don for a few final closing thoughts.
Thanks everyone again.
And as we wrap up this morning’s call I just want to make a couple of comments about where we are positioned as McDonald’s and where I see us? We remain committed to our strategies as we make thoughtful decisions to mitigate some of the short-term pressures and grow this business over the long-term.
This has been consistent in terms of our approach I have even more energy and passion around it today than I did 23 years ago when I joined the company because I know that this is a solid leadership team and we’re well aware of what it is we need to accomplish.
I’m confident about our future; we have defensible competitive advantages some of those we’ve talked about; our resilient model and the alignment across our owner operators our suppliers and our company teams to drive enduring profitable growth for our shareholders and our system.
So I thank all of you for your participation and for your thoughts about McDonald’s and we hope that you have a great day.
Thanks again.
Hello and welcome to McDonald’s July 22 2014 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald’s Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today’s presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Kathy Martin Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald’s Corporation.
Ms.
Martin you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
With me on the call are our President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson and our CFO Pete Bensen.
Today’s conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by phone webcast and podcast.
And before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
And both documents are both available at www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today’s call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Don.
Thank you Kathy and good morning everyone.
Before I discuss our second quarter results I wanted to provide a brief perspective on our performance relative to our expectations.
I also want to share with you how our strategies have evolved to guide our actions going forward.
As we shared with you at our Investor meeting last November and in the last couple of quarterly calls we entered 2014 well aware of the challenges we face for comparable sales and margins amid ongoing broad based challenges and cost pressures throughout our P&amp;L.
And we don't expect any material changes to this operating environment in the second half of the year.
Our financial model is built on growing comparable sales which in turn drive profitability.
So when comparable sales are relatively flat as in second quarter our ability to grow income is significantly impacted.
We've often said that there is no one silver bullet or single solution for driving sustained growth.
In fact the key to our success over time has been that we've executed multiple initiatives simultaneously.
Enduring success requires an ever stronger foundation.
So we're pushing forward on a multiple fronts as we focus on those areas within our control to enhance our relevance and appeal to consumers.
Earlier this year we evolved our Plan to Win Framework refocusing our planning and actions on what matters most to our customers; relevant food choices easier engagement with our brand through digital and greater transparency into the quality of our food and what we stand for as a brand.
Serving good food through good people and being a good neighbor in the communities in which we operate is what McDonald’s stands for.
In April we shared our updated global Plan to Win framework with the more than 15 000 franchises suppliers and company employees at our Biannual Worldwide Convention.
Our decentralized system is now moving forward as we run with more than 35 000 restaurants in 119 countries aligned around an evolved global Plan to Win framework and executing in a way that takes into account local consumer needs and local business environments.
As we work to regain business momentum we are pursuing two parallel paths.
First we are strengthening key foundational elements of our business to deliver our better overall customer experience today.
And second we are making progress on comprehensive strategies in pursuit of the sizeable growth opportunities that lie before us.
These activities are interrelated and together they position us to drive profitable growth over the long turn.
Let me talk first about the work currently underway for foundational elements of our business today.
These include value first.
We are evaluating the relationship between pricing and quality perception across our menu board and that's because value is one of our grand pillars.
So we must continue to fortify our position within this key consumer attribute.
Second operations and service; around the world we are enhancing our operations and service platforms to improve the customer experience and ultimately increase visits.
This includes the service reset in the United States and servicing kitchen enhancements in Europe.
Third marketing.
We are taking actions to reestablish our marketing leadership position globally.
In some markets this means adding fresh perspectives by bringing in new leadership or agency partners.
In others it means heightening our awareness of how customers use McDonald’s and creating stronger messages to reinforce our place in customers’ lives.
And around the world we are also strengthening our creative messages by placing greater emphasis on the quality of our food and again reestablishing the emotional connection that our customers associate with the McDonald’s experience.
The fourth area is simplification.
We are streamlining our merchandizing menu board and product offerings and in addition to making it easier for customer to order their favorite products this will reduce complexity in our restaurants which in turn should enhance accuracy and speed of service.
Getting these foundational element right is critical to maximizing the impact of the additional growth initiatives that we are actively pursuing within the strategic priorities of the Plan to Win framework.
Specifically these growth initiatives include menu customization and personalization digital engagement and brand trust.
In the area of menu customization and personalization our initial efforts focus on delivering the best burger experience to our customers.
I'll talk more later about our learning lab we recently established in the United States to help us better understand what matters most to customers in this arena today? We are also accelerating our digital leverage as we talked about before leveraging learning from markets like France and Australia we’re now executing some elements of our e-commerce digital strategies.
We are also testing various additional elements of our strategy in other markets like the U.S Sweden and the UK as we refine and execute our global digital vision.
And we are taking meaningful action to become even a more respected brand including our work with the World Wildlife Fund and the Alliance for Healthier Generation which was found by the American Heart Association and the Clinton Foundation.
These represent just the subset of our broader sustainability efforts.
We are pursuing these initiatives holistically and building on investments we already made to deliver an unparalleled experience to our customers and consumers in general.
It’s these combined efforts that give me confidence in the future and our ability to drive enduring profitable growth for our system and our shareholders over the long turn.
Let's now turn to performance for the quarter.
Global comparable sales were relatively flat for the second quarter and comparable guest counts were negative.
Operating income was down 1% in constant currencies and earnings per share was $1.40 a 1% increase in constant currencies.
Several markets delivered solid results stronger operating income performance in China the UK and France was offset by weaker performance in markets including Germany Japan the U.S.
and Australia.
These four markets remain priority areas of focus for us and I'll talk more later about the actions we're taking in these markets to reignite momentum.
We're moving with a sense of urgency but recognize that it will take time to see the results of our actions.
Our franchise business model is a clear advantage for us but it also requires alignment around our plans and actions and this takes time.
Once allied it takes time to enact changes in the restaurant and time for customers to notice the changes we've made and reward us with more visits.
Therefore we expect continued volatility across markets for the second half of the year and expect full year 2014 global comparable sales to be relatively similar to year-to-date June performance with July global comparable sales excepted to be negative.
Let’s talk more specifically about performance and the actions we are talking by geography starting with the U.S.
In the United States comparable sales for the quarter were down 1.5% and operating income increased 1%.
While comparable sales were disappointing the U.S.
is making progress in three critical areas improving service through the operations reset focusing on menu and strengthening our marketing position.
The service reset was designed to place greater emphasis on the critical role of proper staffing scheduling and positioning in our restaurants across all the day parts.
Over the last six months our operation support staff are making [inaudible] with all franchise and company owned restaurants to recalibrate around service and customer experience standards.
Restaurants across the U.S.
are now executing as planned and we are beginning to see a reduction in order accuracy complaints.
From a menu standpoint we are placing greater emphasis on the balance between our core classics and the number of new products that are being introduced into the marketplace and this is to ensure that they can be delivered at the speed and convenience that customers expect from McDonald's.
We are also continuing to innovate.
We recently started a restaurant on the West Coast and created a learning lab to help better understand what matters most to customers when it comes to delivering the absolute best burger experience.
It definitely starts with great ingredients like our high quality burger 100% beef with a pinch of salt and pepper but it’s more than that.
It’s about creating an engaging experience which addresses all elements of customer sensory perceptions and leverages the investments that we already made in technology reimaging our physical plans and digital to create a more personalized memorable experience that our customers will feel good about.
The U.S.
is also taking actions to strengthen marketing leadership.
We reorganized the marketing department and are reallocating our median mix to place greater emphasis on digital channels.
We are also strengthening our creative to connect more deeply with customers placing an even greater emphasis on the quality of our great food and on the strong emotional connection that our customers already have with our great brand.
Let’s now move to Europe where comparable sales were down 1% for the quarter and operating income was down 4% in constant currencies.
These results reflect solid performance in the UK and France partially offset by weak results in Germany and a slowdown in Russia.
The UK’s track record of solid performance continues due in part to its strong customer centric planning process.
While second quarter comparable sales were positive they softened compared to recent trends partially because we are now lapping last year’s successful blended ice rollout.
We continue to grow market share through strong premium promotional activity which is complemented by an ongoing focus on breakfast extended hours and side-by-side dry fruits.
Comparable sales continue to be positive in France and we are gaining market share despite a contracting informal eating out industry.
The recent launch of our new premium Chicken Patty in April helped reinforce strong food quality perceptions in the marketplace.
Germany remains the primary area of focus as negative sales and guest count momentum continues.
The leadership team is actively working to reset the foundation focusing its efforts on improving our food quality and value perceptions and regaining consumers trust.
These include strengthening our marketing organization in creative and evaluating our affordability platform and ensure that we offer compelling values to customers across the entire menu.
Now let’s shift to Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa where comparable sales were up 1.1% for the quarter and operating income increased 1% in constant currencies.
Strong comparable sales performance in China as well as positive performance in many other markets was somewhat offset by continued weakness in Japan.
In China comparable sales increased 8.8% for the quarter partly reflecting the lap of last year’s Avian influenza.
Given volatile consumers sentiment in China we’re focused on enhancing our all day value platform to drive traffic and grow market share.
At the same time we are building on our strong momentum in breakfast and through brand extensions such as delivery dessert kiosks and mid-café.
In Australia affordability remains key to driving traffic with consumer confidence at the lowest levels since 2008.
We're strengthening our value proposition by relaunching our Loose Change menu with compelling value offer and we're also making it easier for our customers to enjoy the great tasting McCafe beverages that they have grown to love.
Negative momentum Japan persisted amid a highly competitive environment and a contracting informal eating out industry.
The leadership team remains focused on regaining customer relevance and loyalty by repositioning the affordability platform to resonate more strongly with customers while working to differentiate the McDonald’s experience through menu innovation and a focus on the family and happy meal business.
Around the world markets continue to adjust their plans to be even more relevant to customers but we have recognized again that it will take time to reignite momentum.
Overall 2014 is a year of strengthening the foundational drivers of our business activities that are critical in enabling and advancing our longer-term strategies.
Even during periods of softer performance our business continues to generate significant levels of cash.
Our first priority regarding use of cash is to invest in our business to drive future growth and future returns.
In addition we've established an $18 billion to $20 billion cash return to shareholders target between 2014 and 2015.
Year-to-date June we've returned $2.8 billion towards that goal.
I want to close by reemphasizing my confidence in McDonald’s.
We continue to move forward as one system guided by the framework of our global Plan to Win and relentlessly focused on the significant opportunities that exist within our strategic global growth priorities to optimize our menu by serving our customers’ favorite food and drink to modernize the customer experience so that it's even more memorable to broaden accessibility so that we deliver unparalleled convenience and to become an even more trusted and respected brand.
We're moving forward thoughtfully and with a sense of urgency.
Our plans and actions build on our core strengths and I am confident that they will ultimately result in additional business from new and existing customers.
Thanks again everyone.
I'll now turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
The McDonald’s system and our financial model are built with the expectation of future sales growth.
Yet we know from history that our top line growth overtime is neither consistent nor linear.
In addition any growth is a product of the significant base off of which we operate which includes serving approximately 70 million customers every day and generating industry leading average unit volumes in virtually all of the countries in which we operate.
Importantly this large base also provides financial resiliency during periods of softer performance.
Though we did not meet our growth targets through the first six months McDonald’s still generated over $4.1 billion of operating income.
Our strong financial foundation allows us to remain focused on the significant long term opportunities that we believe McDonald’s is uniquely positioned to seize which is why we continue our disciplined approach to investing in targeted growth opportunities.
We know that enduring success requires an ever stronger foundation.
So we're pushing forward on multiple fronts guided by our evolved Plan to Win framework and the strategic growth priorities.
As Don discussed it takes time to evaluate and align with franchises on the changes needed and then implement them in our restaurants and time for customers to notice the changes and reward us with increased visits.
I am confident that we're taking the right steps to strengthen our foundation and position the company for future growth.
Our charge over the next 12 to 18 months is to accelerate the changes effectively communicate the enhancements to our customers and execute at the highest standards in our restaurants.
Now turning to the results for the six months ended June system wide sales increased 3% in constant currencies primarily due to expansion.
Combined operating margin declined 60 basis points to 29.7% over that same period reflecting the softer results.
McDonald’s is primarily a franchisor with over 80% of our global restaurants operated by local businessmen and women.
As such franchise margins drive overall profitability comprising approximately 70% of restaurant margin dollars.
In second quarter the franchise margin dollars increased 2% in constant currencies while the margin percent declined 60 basis points to 82.2%.
Expansion continued to contribute to the margin dollar growth whereas soft comparable sales increased rent and depreciation expense and the impact of refranchising pressured the margin percent.
Global company operated margin dollars for the quarter totaled $816 million a 3 % decline in constant currencies.
The margin percent decreased 60 basis points to 17.1 % as relatively flat comparable sales could not offset cost pressures throughout the P&amp;L.
Europe's margin declined which I will discuss in a moment accounted for the majority of the global margin decline.
In the U.S.
second quarter company operated margins declined 40 basis points to 18.3% due to higher labor and 3% higher commodity costs.
As a result of effective risk management efforts and supplier production efficiencies we are maintaining our full year outlook for the increase in our U.S.
grocery basket of 1% to 2%.
In terms of pricing U.S.
is running about 3% at the end of June.
This is the midpoint for the full year 2014 projected food away from home inflation of 2.5% to 3.5%.
Through June food away from home inflation stands at 2.2%.
So we will be disciplined with future price increases as we move through the second half of the year.
In Europe second quarter company operated margins decreased 80 basis points to 18.6% primarily impacted by higher commodity costs in Russia and Ukraine due to weaker currencies as well as negative performance in Germany.
Russia and Ukraine import approximately half of their commodities most of which are denominated in either Euros or U.S dollars.
For a perspective Russia and Ukraine accounted for nearly all of Europe second quarter company operated margin decline.
Europe's projected full year commodity cost increase remains at 1% to 2%.
Excluding currency commodity costs were relatively flat in the first half of the year which implies a second half increase of about 2%.
Our menu price increases in Europe vary by market with the overall segment averaging about 2% year-over-year.
Turning to Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa company-operated margins for the quarter decreased 60 basis points to 13.7% as positive comparable sales were more than offset by higher labor occupancy and other costs.
In addition new restaurant openings negatively impacted the segment’s margin percent though to a lesser degree than a year ago.
The decline in the margin percent was also impacted by the mix of relatively lower margin markets like China contributing a greater share of the overall margin dollars.
That being said we are encouraged by the margin percent improvements we are seeing in certain individual markets including China in this high growth area of the world.
With our current sales outlook and expected currency volatility in some of our company owned markets we expect continued pressure on consolidated company operated margins in the second half more significant pressure in the U.S due to higher labor expenses partly as a result of planned minimum wage increases in several states and likely less benefit from pricing.
Second quarter G&amp;A expenses increased 3% in constant currencies primarily due to our biannual worldwide convention in April and higher employee costs partly related to our long term growth initiatives.
One of our key competitive advantages is our size and scale and our conventionist integral and maintaining alignment so that we could move together as one system.
We have reduced our full year projected constant currency G&amp;A increase from 8% to 4% to 5% primarily due to lower incentive-based compensation as a result of not expecting to meet our growth targets.
Even with softer performance the McDonald’s business model continues to generate significant amounts of cash.
Our first priority remains at reinvesting this cash in our business to build future returns and enhance shareholder value.
These investments are balanced between opening 1 500 to 1 600 new restaurants and re-imaging over 1 000 existing locations in 2014.
We remain committed to this effort and are making steady progress towards these targets.
Through June we've opened 461 new restaurants globally and relative to reimaging we've completed about 90 projects in the U.S 100 in Europe and 120 in APMEA.
Similar to prior year’s new restaurant openings and reimaging projects tend to be more loaded in the back half of the year.
Lastly let me discuss foreign currency translation which positively impacted second quarter EPS by a $0.01.
At current exchange rates we expect minimal impact on third quarter EPS with a full year negative impact of $0.04 to $0.05.
As usual please take this as directional guidance only because rates will change as we progress through the second half of the year.
In closing I remain confident in the choices we're making to position McDonald’s for enduring profitable growth.
We're patiently and deliberately making investments to-date to strengthen our foundation and leverage our significant competitive advantages in the $1.2 trillion global and formal eating out category.
Thanks.
Now I'll turn it over to Kathy to begin our Q&amp;A.
Great thanks Pete.
I am going to open the call for analysts and investor questions.
(Operator Instructions).
So we're going to start with Brian Bittner from Oppenheimer.
Thank you very much and good morning.
I guess my question here is how much do you believe your ability to regrow same-store sales of the system is really completely under your control at this point and what I mean by that is you look at your business and your peak sales per unit really without game changing platforms in the pipe with competition that's I mean arguably more of a headwind than you've ever witnessed.
And so I guess what I am trying to understand from your perspective is what is it really that you can tweak at this point given all these factors.
There is really going to be some serious incremenality of this asset base you talked about better service improved marketing getting better practice and I just wonder if that's enough to really continue to try to get incrementality out of a $2.6 million-$2.5 million as has been designed?  Hi Brian this is Don thanks for the question.
Brian I think there is two different things that are taking place.
If I look at the longer term and you are asking kind of two questions I think the short and the longer-term.
If I look at the longer-term Brian I would tell you the strategic growth priorities that are set for the U.S.
business and around the world are solid very solid and they are really focused on -- let's take the U.S.
menu customization and personalization and I mentioned starting with Burger leadership accelerating digital engagement actually both the engagement and the experience so e-commerce is a part of that along with some other things that we're looking at delivering to our customer base.
And then enhancing the overall brand relevance and thrust particularly around our food quality and employment opportunity images and the side of the business that people look to relative to that.
So and those things are part of a much broader sustainability movement if you would in McDonald’s than many people have seen I feel really really good about where those strategies are going.
Those combined with some of the broader development strategies we've seen in markets like APMEA those longer-term strategies are solid.
In the shorter-term what we're looking forward is to fortify the base the foundation of McDonald’s today so that we're ready for those growth opportunities.
So to your point as we look at the basic market is strengthening right now.
Are we're making sure that the presence that we have the awareness that we have and share of voice that we have are solid strong and allocated to the appropriate media that's being fortified.
But look at the operational reset in the U.S.
it is focused on the peak periods and our ability to deliver at those peak periods which has something to do clearly with the productivity in the restaurants and the staffing levels in the restaurant and these are things that our leadership operators have discussed in United States with our U.S.
team and they are moving forward on those things.
So supported by breakfast the food quality messaging the operations focused on the peak periods and staffing scheduling positioning and reasserting market leadership those are foundational pieces.
But they have to be re-established Brian.
Those to your point are probably more incremental.
The other things that I mention are longer term growth strategies are stronger relative to how we look at growth into the future.
Next question is from Matt DiFrisco from Buckingham.
Thank you.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit or give us an update on the the back of the house prep tables in the United States and if we could expect what type of margin benefit at the store level have you seen there were the benefits you can talk about that as well as any sort of new products that we could see as far as with the extended refrigeration life what does this enable you to do maybe going down the line? Thanks Matt.
I'll talk a little bit about you know broader menu pipeline and Pete talk about back of house.
Relative to the broader menu pipeline in the U.S.
right now they are really focused on the balance between our core products the core classic favorites the Big Macs the nuggets et cetera and also the new products and new innovation.
There are numerous products and ideas that are in the pipeline and in the global pipeline from around the world.
Our U.S.
team is currently testing some of those and looking at some of those.
They are still in the areas that we've mentioned of chicken beef breakfast and beverages.
So if I look at the broader menu of that part is intact.
The relative to the kitchen and the productivity and efficiency and issues in the kitchen the high density kitchen was intended to give us more flexibility and allow refrigeration on the prep table which gives us a little bit stronger capability relative to products.
You will see -- will have seen a couple of products which you will be seeing more products relative to that but I want everyone keep in mind this is going to be a balanced approach.
It is not all new products and not taking care of the core classics and favorites because we need to see baseline improvements in all core products as well as a boost over the baseline based upon the new products that we implement.
Our next question is from Joe Buckley Bank of America.
Hi.
Thank you.
Sort of about broad question you’ve been talking about the global operating environment and certainly operating environment in the U.S has been soft for a couple of years now.
And the strategies you are implementing are very execution focused and really haven't changed but also don’t seem to be gaining traction.
What sort of we thinking about the next 12 to 18 months from an incremental change that can drive sales? And then secondly does it make sense to keep opening stores at the pace the current pace of expansion I guess I'm asking the question globally but especially in the U.S.
where I think you have couple of 100 next doors targeted if I'm not mistaken? Hi Joe thanks for the question.
Last part first if you look at the U.S.
and you look at a couple of hundred stores keep in mind a large portion of those are relocation base restaurants that we have.
So on a percentile basis the U.S.
is not opening a lot of stores.
We are opening an opportunity and there continues to be market opportunities for McDonald's.
But there is not a lot of restaurants in the U.S.
I think their number’s about 120 stores net in the U.S.
business.
So the broader development opportunities and growth opportunities across the Asia Pacific Middle East Africa region across markets like Russia clearly Pete I and the team are looking at some of the markets like the Russias of the world given this the current economic environment and determining what we decide to do Russia China what their pace of growth looks like.
We do that in an ongoing way.
In the U.S.
the focal point that we have to grow this business is as I mentioned secure the foundational elements of the business.
We got to make sure that our restaurants both company-operated and franchise are operating at the right level.
So this is not about one side or the other side this is simply about making sure that the restaurants are running well and if they are staffed effectively.
Clearly there has been some level of trepidation relative to staffing up our restaurant based upon some legislative impact of things that are coming down the pipe such as whether it be healthcare reform or the potential of minimum wage from a federal perspective but even more broadly more state minimum wage increases.
So there is a little trepidation relative to that but as I mentioned earlier the franchisees with our company team in the U.S.
have really had some great discussions around what they call operations reset and are focused on building a business at those peak periods.
We understand how profitable that is across the day parts but we are also not giving up on the growth strategies.
Those growth strategies around digital engagement around what we are able to do with our ability to have a balanced menu and to afford customization for our customers then incorporate it with some of the things that we are looking at it doing relative to re-establishing a higher respective brand profile for McDonald's all those things are going to be well intact and moving forward.
So over the next you know 12 to 18 months expect to see focused us on both those parallel paths.
In the near term you are going to see more on the foundational piece through rest of 2014 you will see more of the other aspects at some point in 2015.
Our next question is from David Tarantino from Baird.
Hi.
Good morning.
I just wanted to piggy back on the last question and maybe ask from a big pictures perspective why do you think it's taking so long to stabilize the sales trends in places like the U.S.
and Germany and I guess part two of the question would be is do you think a need to make more radical changes to the strategy than what you are talking about based on the trajectory of the recovery or maybe lack of recovery that you are seeing? Hi David.
Thanks for the question.
I'll speak about this in two different ways.
One is I'll give a little update on the priority markets and the other one is really how do we look at I‘ll call it turnaround time.
The -- taking the turnaround time piece first we are clearly moving with a sense of urgency and anyone inside the system knows that and it's quite an aggressive sense of urgency toward the end of the first quarter we had priority market business as we had talked about earlier on one of our calls post that time the market themselves with the franchisees and company employees have been getting together to discuss the local action plans that it takes to drive the business.
It just so happens in most of these markets those opportunities are around the three areas we've been talking about around the value/affordability arena around the strength and focus of our marketing and how we are marketing with a balance between core and new products and also making sure that as we look at our broader business that we are focused on bringing customers forward and they understand the transparency and food quality levels within McDonald's.
So those things are things we’re moving forward aggressively on and markets are putting those plans together.
In a franchised organization like ours it does take some time.
As I mentioned the strength of our system is our franchisees there is no doubt about it.
At the same time it takes time to get that alignment and in time to get these things in a restaurant in time for them to move forward.
So we understand that we understand the timeline we want to do it right.
I don't want to continue to have implementations that are not consumer-based because then we come back six 12 months later and we are changing those again.
So we are doing these things in the right way with the right processes but it does take some time.
The other piece relative to the priority market just a bit of an update.
Different markets will take different times relative to their recovery pace.
If you all remember back in early 2000s the UK was a challenging market.
It took several years and interestingly enough to focus on similar things that we are talking about now slightly deeper hole at the time but we've been able to come back with a very balanced approach and we’ve had very strong market success.
Germany today is in that kind of a mode.
We got to have a big kind of a recovery.
It’s similar to the UK.
Japan is in a similar mode as that.
I think the U.S is moving forward at a bit more aggressive or stronger quicker pace if you would however it's still going to take time in the U.S.
as we solidify these foundational elements.
The Australia Australia also I think will be at a quicker pace.
We are able to still do some innovations in Australia while we fortify some of these base elements.
In all of these markets we've had some changes in our marketing functions in our marketing leadership.
Some of these markets had changes in our agencies.
We've had some other leadership personnel changes in some of the markets.
So we believe we are moving forward urgently and aggressively but we are also doing it in a way that will have some longstanding impact and believe me this is not the kind of thing that I'm comfortable about.
This is not the kind of thing that I would say I sleep well at night over thinking that the pace of change is as quickly as I would like but I know that the markets are going through this in an appropriate way and an appropriate pace and they are doing it with a sense of urgency.
Next question is from David Palmer from RBC.
Thank you.
It does not look like McDonald’s is descending traffic like it's done in similar periods of low industry growth like '09.
You got price increases I think you said 3% and obviously you are not pounding away on the dollar menu like you did back then.
But I know traffic is important to you guys.
So when McDonald’s does improve its traffic how do you -- and perhaps it's a '15 event what do you think would be that driver the key ingredients for that is -- will it lean on operations changes and digital engagement or perhaps could we see a return to more active food news or something else? Thanks.
David I think you just hit them but again I'll say that there is parallel paths here.
We have to make sure that the foundation is strong enough to accept the digital strategies and engagement that we're going to be putting into the restaurant.
The operational foundation has to be strong enough for us to be able to move forward with customization and personalization at the level that we want to at McDonald’s.
Back in 2000 -- if you look into 2008-‘09 time frame this was a slightly different time frame.
Several things and I'll mention a couple of them.
One of them the strength of the broader legislative impact on cash flow was not as aggressive.
Having said that what that means is that clearly as a franchisee or a franchisor as we look at the margins there is as I mentioned earlier there has been some trepidation around if you step up then is this going to hurt cash flow even more.
But I think that the strength of the U.S team with our franchisees is addressing that and beginning to address that appropriately relative to the need for us to do that to move into these growth strategies.
So that part is a little bit different.
The other thing that is different is that back then we made a modification to the dollar menu which was merely product based and we were able to do that with one product change or at the time we had two product changes over about a five year period.
At this point we're looking at the overall pricing structure of our menu board because we've seen a bit of a split relative to the lower end of the menu and then the higher end.
All of these things the U.S team is looking at as we look at the price tier.
So there a couple of differences David nonetheless we're not giving up on value or affordability and I know it's one of the things being implemented in the U.S.
business.
And David as you think about pricing for the rest of this year we've said we're up above 3% trailing '12 June but in May we had about 90 basis points of pricing roll off from a year ago and we only replaced that with about 30 basis points pricing.
And as we look to that broader food away from home that's projected to be up 2.5% to 3.5% but it's only up 2.2% through June.
So we're keeping an eye on all those metrics too.
So don't think we aren't conscious of what that consumer is feeling today and their ability to come into McDonald’s more often.
And yet kind of walking that delicate balance between that aspect of the business as-well-as some of these additional cost pressures that Don mentioned that are coming down the pike.
Next question is from Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Don maybe a follow-up you talked a lot about the franchise system and how it takes little bit of time to move that system relative to if you owned it yourself.
At the same time I think you noted earlier this year the franchisees based on your meetings with them your discussions and what not they are still engaged and supportive of the corporate initiative and I guess you had your convention recently but perhaps that's driven by the fact that profitability is still close to peak levels.
But what are the complaints or rumblings you are hearing if any of late don’t know if any things that management feels the need that we need to prioritize this to address whether it's the new product news the promotional activity pricing remodels.
I am just kind of wondering how that sentiment how those relationships just over the past couple of years the struggles are trending? Thanks Jeff.
Anytime there is softness in cash flow we will have -- we have to have even more effective discussions even more planning together as to how we move the business and there will always be concerns when we see softness in cash flow.
This is a for profit business and so that's going to occur.
And our franchisees have those concerns as-well-as we do in company operated restaurants.
So just to set that stage we will always have -- when there is a softness in cash flow the conversations we're having now.
And the franchisees are not -- they are not at all time highs they have seen higher levels of cash flow.
And so they want to get back to some of those levels clearly and we want them back at those levels so they can have personal cash flow but invest in the business and invest in the communities the way that they do.
So we have engaged in clearly a lot more conversations and communications around where we take this business.
The other thing I’ll say though there is a realization that the franchises have they are not seeking and searching for silver bullet either.
They understand what they’ve executed in the past to grow the business has been a group of initiatives that have had an impact on multiple fronts.
So as we look forward into the future the fact that we’re talking about food and the food experience the fact that we’re talking about the in-restaurant experience with digital engagement experiences the fact that we’re talking about how this brand is perceived by consumers and the local communities all of those things fit very well together and I think the franchisees are excited about that.
Clearly in the current situation and environment there are concerns that the franchisees have.
And that is what we’re working through with them but I will say that our leadership groups have been at the table and have been solid relative to the way that they are given input cost and guidance and certainly as they’d like to see us move-in and we’re moving in many of those areas.
Next question is from Jeff Farmer from Wells Fargo.
Thank you and just shifting gears a little bit as you guys think about your plan to refranchise I think you said at least 1 500 restaurants by the end of 2016 how should we view that as potential impact on not only that consolidated operating income margin but also your ROIC number and again I just ask that in the context of -- I think we’re all pretty familiar with the margin tailwind that you saw going back to the mid to late 2000s with developmental licensing and things like that in Latin America big margin tailwind big ROIC tailwind as you look at these group of 1 500 restaurants how should we think about them? Jeff yeah good question thanks.
First of all in terms of the -- just the set expectations in terms of the timing we’ve done about 200 refranchises through this year.
When we think about it the next two years ’15 and ’16 will probably carry the bulk of that refranchising activity in part because there are some markets that we really need to build that franchising infrastructure around to get that going in a more significant way.
That being said directionally while we haven’t quantified some of those benefits that you’re calling out directionally those are benefits that we would expect to see to the P&amp;L.
So we expect franchising does have a favorable impact to our overall combined operating margins.
It does have a favorable impact to the G&amp;A levels that we need to support the business.
It does have a favorable impact to the ROIIC.
So those are all directionally consistent with where we plan to go with this franchising.
Our next question is from John Glass from Morgan Stanley.
Don I see moving with a urgency but around that you must have a set of deadlines internally and some goals and it seems like you’ve pushed this out originally maybe you’re talking about the first half of this year being a reset and then maybe some benefits in the second half now it seems like it’s really going to be pushed off in to ’15 so what are the milestones specifically that you hope to achieve this year or even next quarter towards those goals? And specifically when are we going to see tangible benefits from both the customization and the digital strategy either it’s this year or it’s ’15 what is the timeframe for those things? Thanks John the last part customization and digital strategies we’re seeing certain things in some markets already.
So we’ve got clearly as I’ve mentioned there are some things that we’ve been doing in France there are some things that we’re already doing in Australia from a test perspective.
You’ll see some limited testing in the U.S.
the latter part of the year 2015 again you’ll see more robustness in terms of some of the things that will come to market in 2015.
That is not saying that will be January 1st that is saying that it will be in 2015.
The aspects around what we’re doing on customization and personalization clearly there are some things that we’re looking at getting going this year relative to testing.
It’s a big system getting the operators engaged and I think the U.S.
system has begun to do that.
So I would say that you’ll see more of that in 2015.
That probably is as specific as I would get on that one.
I think that we also have if I look across Europe some very similar initiatives some of the markets as I mentioned UK Sweden are doing some testing on digital and again we just mentioned France where they are Australia will be a little sooner on the digital lane however that's 2015 as we look at that latter part of '14 you will see some.
So that kind of gives you the digital perspective.
The menu piece and reestablishing our leadership from a menu and marketing perspective when we talk about milestones the milestones I have for the priority market so in Germany we had to reestablish our marketing function we had to reestablish a more solid and balanced marketing plan and that is what the German team is working through now with the franchisees.
In Australia they are having some similar conversations and working through that aspect -- the balance between affordability core and the innovative nature of some of the new products.
Clearly in the U.S we talked quite a bit about that there is a sense of urgency yes there are milestones relative to certain things.
I have thoughts about everything from when certain changes occur.
We're in the midst of the planning process now and so we're looking at the plans for 2015 as we move forward.
However we have not given up on 2014.
We have a lot of activities now to show off the basis I've talked about and mentioned.
So from a milestone perspective believe me they are there they are aggressive we talk about them routinely and we see them as we visit the marketplaces.
What we are mindful of John is the fact that we want to make sure that this is done again so it has sustaining and staying power which means in our system this has to be collaborative approach between ourselves and our franchisees.
That's when things stay and last within -- in the McDonald’s system.
So I feel that it's moving in an appropriate direction.
I am impatient as well.
Believe me our senior team is our operators are but we have to do this and do it in the right way so that we have long-term enduring profitable growth and not just a flash in the pan.
But these are holistic solutions that will come together and I am confident they will drive the business over the long-term.
Next question is from Jason West from Deutsche Bank.
Yeah thanks.
I guess just following up on lot of the other lines of questioning.
You guys have obviously not been sitting on your hands in the last couple of years and you are seeing some progress in certain markets but overall some of these trends just seem to be getting worse.
So I am just wondering if you feel you like have identified why the traffic numbers are declining and you have much a better sense of that now than maybe you did a year ago.
And yes the learning lab that you mentioned on the West Coast to help understand what customers want kind of talk about how that's going to help you understand where the traffic is going and how to get people back in the stores? Thanks for the question Jason.
When we talk about our learning lab we have a learning lab in U.S.
[inaudible] we have a digital function over in Europe and France we had the architecture décor studio also over in France.
So we've looked at -- and we have a lot of data on consumers and what consumers are looking for from a trend perspective.
When we look at our base trend lines and why they move where they move why they would be [right] in these priority markets we do today have a much better understanding of exactly why.
We've had a bit of an understanding in the past however our actions have not coincided with the actual I would say the data themselves.
So when we put actions in place and we've heard some of the actions what we're doing now is looking at what those consumer expectations are and putting together plans that are directly linked and related to those consumer expectations.
That is what we're attempting to do.
So this is not chasing short-term sales or short-term guest counts we're looking to continue to have a sustainability to grew guest count sales and profitability.
So clearly there are things that we're looking at as we move forward and those are some of the initiatives as I've mentioned as we said on the problem.
Great.
The next question is from Sara Senatore from Sanford Bernstein.
Hi.
Thank you very much.
I want to jump over to maybe another part of world just ask about China because I know you have called it out as a point of strength.
It looked like maybe June slowed in China maybe pretty meaningfully.
I wanted to ask about that trend and I assume it's unrelated to some of the negatives press we've seen but if you could just comment on both of those dynamics.
As-well-as I think Pete mentioned maybe some there is still a drag on margins from that kind of the lower margin and the mix there.
Is that in anyway a function I think of you having gone after more of a value message or is it just the sort of continued need to kind of scale up to see the margins kind of hit more system wide averages? Sara it's Pete.
I'll start on the margin in the APNEA and Don will talk more broadly about the trends in China.
You know our APNEA margins over the next couple of quarters are going to be a little bit misleading because while we are seeing growth in individual countries so the quarter and end year-to-date we’ve seen growth in the margin in Australia in China in Hong Kong our three capital markets in APNEA the fact that we have refranchised in Australia which is our highest from a capital margin percentage is changing the mix to a lower margin percentage in total and the fact that the Australian dollar is weaker when you translate that in to U.S.
dollars that’s giving even less weighting to Australia’s high margins overall.
So that the segment virtually all of the segment decline was as a result of these weighting and refranchising combinations.
China itself grew margins in the quarter and year-to-date and the drag from the new stores was down significantly from a year ago.
Now positive comps are clearly a driver of that but the team you may heard Dave Hoffmann and the team over there talk about the go-to-market strategy which is a very concentrated effort not only in China but in some of our other emerging markets to really look at the cost of opening the new restaurants and challenging the level of investment that we need today or can we build the restaurant with a little less cost today but build in such a way that we can expand it easily in the future when you know sales volumes dictate versus building the restaurant today for a sales volume that we might not achieve until five years from now.
So a much smarter approach I would say to the development and we are starting to see some of those benefits already in our margins in China and Don can talk a little bit more broadly about the market.
Thanks Sara and thanks Pete.
Actually in China Sara our market the market is performing solidly quite solidly and I’ll give you a little bit of background little back drop on China relative to the economy and in our performance which actually if you look at our performance excluding the benefits of Avian influenza for the second quarter it still would have been positive.
And over a two year perspective we are growing our business in China we are growing market share in China top ten markets we’re outpacing the competition in terms of growing market share.
So we are growing solidly in China.
The macro-environment is still a challenge there is fluctuating consumer sentiment and it’s expected to carry over in the quarter.
So IO visits are starting to recover a bit but it’s a little bit lower then it was a year ago.
I would tell you that despite that some of things we have talked about in some of the other markets actually bode true for China and we made those adjustments.
So all day value we went from just a lunch time value to all day value platform that continues to perform well.
Again relative to Avian influenza we are comping on top of what the impact of that was brand extensions are helping us to move forward.
We focus on breakfast in China for the last several years that continuing to be a positive contributor.
Some of these things are even in the face of other initiatives that we implemented some of the things we focused on with the night business last year.
So China is actually moving in a positive direction and we feel -- we feel solid about the performance in China.
It is still a challenging economy however and everyone should realize that GDP is below 8% and we know what that means.
There is still some acceleration in some of the operating related cost leverage of the labor as they look to normalize if you would or redistribute to some of the wealth across China.
So everyone grows a bit.
But they are still growing on [mobile] we are still growing dry fruits our sites at the peak points are solid in terms of new sites that we’re opening.
We culled some of the sites last year because we thought they may have been too early.
I think [Kenneth] and the team has done a great job with that.
So relative to China we are feeling again that the performance in China is solid.
Great.
So we have six folks still in the queue.
I know we are just about out of time.
But we are going to take those six.
So for those of you who can stay over for few minutes you know we will carry on.
So next question is from Bryan Elliott from Raymond James.
Good afternoon and thanks.
Just as you look at the news this week out of China are we at a tipping point are you considering potentially backwardly integrating to protect your brand and what really are the solutions to the situation there from a suppliers standpoint.
Hi Bryan.
You know we have some very solid suppliers across the McDonald’s system and they as we are committed to the highest standards of food safety for our customer.
And that's always the number one priority.
As we look at some of the alleged issues that are taking place now.
If those things clearly are confirmed at a level that we would think it is a higher level decision that has caused us to have a breach relative to consumer trust we would deal with that effectively swiftly and appropriately.
We are no longer serving a product from the primary facility there that has the challenges and the issues.
I know that there is a couple of other facilities that they had that have been cleared now by the Chinese government the management thoroughly investigated.
We are cooperating fully with the authorities.
As you know we do have audits of our suppliers.
In this case we do feel that we were a bit deceived relative to one of these plaints.
So we are clearly looking at that.
What does it mean from a broader perspective relative to integration of the supply chain; we enjoy and have benefitted from what we call the three-legged stool which is the supply chain as a separate entity just as our franchisees are a separate entity other than McDonalds Corporation.
They bring us great innovation.
They have grown with us in multiple countries around the world they understand our expectations they understand where we value consumer safety and our standards and they understand the fact that they would be under scrutiny if there is ever a challenge relative to our consumers.
So we continue to make those points and we continue to drive forward to make sure that we protect our customers and protect the broader brand interest as we move forward on issues like this one.
Next question is from John Ivankoe from JPMorgan.
Hi great thank you.
Just some related U.S.
topics if I may I remember back in 2002 again I think actually using some franchise consultants you really drove some QSC in the franchisees and either showed them a path to measurable improvement at the store level or showed them a path to exiting the system.
So at what point are you kind of like in another phase in terms of kind of getting a 20 year commitment out of franchisees and making sure you have the right people on board with you? And the second kind of I think related topic is around the effectiveness and the efficiency of our advertising and your product development.
It does seem to be lagging your peers even a fraction of the size.
So I was wondering if there was a structural opportunity to change the effectiveness and the speed to market of that advertising and product development in the U.S.
or whether it's just I think as I’ve heard that it’s just about improving executional tactics.
Thanks.
Right John thanks for the question.
Relative to the franchises and John we have a lot of collaboration and committees that are shared between the franchises and the company and our suppliers.
So as we engage and address the business we move forward we are -- we have a lot of communication with each other.
One of those points of communications clearly every year is around operating standards of McDonald and what we call growth criteria and also the restaurant operation improvement process which is really focused on quality food quality service and cleanliness in the restaurants and we've had a clearly a lot of conversations about how and when and where and what the processes are for abiding by that.
We still have those processes in place.
Those processes started back to your point in 2001-‘2 timeframe.
They are in place everything from a process for improvement for those restaurants that are not performing at the appropriate levels to how we look at franchise engagement how we look at our own company operated restaurant performance.
So we don't need to have a separate initiative and I think as you talked about it was almost I got a sense of an upper out kind of a conversation.
We have ongoing conversation with each other relative to the performance of our restaurants and clearly are we having those now? Yes we are we have them all the time.
But what's important is that we focus on the standards and adherence to the standard not some kind of a process to move franchises out of the business.
We have a process and frankly based on our improvement processes we tend to be able to improve the business in a different way.
We are no more or less aggressive than we were in 2002 at this point in time.
It is very similar.
Relative to marketing there is a focus on marketing effectiveness.
You are absolutely right as we look at shareholder voice as we look at the impact that our creative has as we look at the reach that that creative has and we look at the distribution outlets and our media allocation.
Having said that there is also a focus on how our marketing messages are conveying the emotional quotient if you would of the brand and that means there has to be changes.
So when I mentioned leadership changes in marketing or agency changes those are not incremental effectiveness changes John those are changes based upon the fact that we may not be getting the content or the reach or the awareness that we desire and demand as a McDonald’s brand.
And when we make those changes we don’t do it lightly.
Those are the kind of changes that we need to drive the business and those changes are occurring in several of our critical markets around the world.
Next question is from [RJ Hardwe] from Morningstar.
Thanks for taking my question.
Wanted to dive down into Europe a little bit more.
Looks like the June results the negative 3.4% comp little bit softer than what we’ve seen Europe had recently been a point of relative outperformance.
Just wanted to make sure there wasn’t anything more than this just the things you mentioned in Germany between the marketing changes there as well as the Russia situation going on whether are you seeing competition intensify or seeing less impact from reimagining or some of the menu innovations there just kind of want to get a better sense of your perspective on Europe.
Thanks RJ.
I think you hit it pretty well.
Germany still remains weak and showed further deceleration in the second quarter.
As I mentioned our teams and the franchisees and the changes we’ve made in terms of leadership and process those things are moving forward.
It’s going to take a while in Germany.
We have lost share in that market.
If I look at France and the UK those markets are gaining share and our performance has been solid and we had similar conversations about France several years could we make the turn and some of the things that we put in place in France has proved [inaudible] on the affordability and we’ve added great balance across the menu in terms of the core product.
We’ve has new innovations we’ve added digital strategies that have been implemented.
So those things are even in a very-very tough environment our business in France is still providing and so I think it goes to show all the things that we’re talking about are not just things that we dream up but they are the things that we have implemented in the markets around the world.
So France is still performing UK is performing as we mentioned they just last lapped on top of the blended ice rollout but we still have a solid performance there a very balanced approach to the business and we’re still moving forward and growing.
There has been one thing we’ve seen a little bit of decline in retail footfall traffic but aside from that RJ nothing I would say was much broader than that point.
Russia slowdown in comp sales there the economy has recently entered a recession.
It’s taking a hit based upon the geopolitical issues they are paired there.
There is lower consumer confidence.
We have seen some new competitors enter the market but as you know that is a market that we have been in a market that we’re growing in and growing with the right crews and we feel very good about our positioning there and the opportunities in front of us in Russia but at this point there is -- we are seeing some softness in Russia.
I think largely due to some of the geopolitical concerns and consumer confidence.
Next question is from [Howard Penny from Hagi].
Hi thank you very much.
Don the last time you’ve gone through an extended period of declining same store sales it took a much bigger event and a major sort of restructuring to get to realign the organization.
I know you put forth the plans to improve sales and you believe I honestly believe that you think you believe you’ve got the right plans but the fact of matter is you might not have the right plan and there could be some give and take and it might not work as you’ve laid it out.
Do you have a contingency plan or back-up plan to what might not work or what you put forth today and what are the chances do you think that an extended period of sales will lead to a bigger sort of effort to improve your top line sales? Thanks very much.
Thanks for the question Howard.
I know you and I talked recently when we were together at the investor meeting last year some of the basic fundamental things that we talked about are things that we’re focused on now to shore up the business clearly.
Relative to contingencies it is the great thing about the McDonald’s system is we are in 119 countries.
We have a very diverse portfolio of [witnesses] so we have the opportunity to test multiple things in parts of initiatives in different areas of the world.
So when I talk about the digital strategy part of the test was taken place in France.
What we’re implementing as a result of those learnings in Australia what subsets of that are being tested in the Sweden and the U.S.
and the UKs of the world really as we formulate these strategies we’re constantly I guess you’d say iterating around the improvements in the data that we’ve seen in several markets.
So relative to the contingencies I guess I would say it’s almost a live in contingency as to the way that we implement major initiatives.
So the digital initiative being one the customization and personalization efforts being another even on those it maybe based upon a different product complement.
So in the U.S it's going to be about Burger leadership many markets across Europe it will be about that initially.
There are other areas where it would be the chicken platforms and portfolios.
So we're learning as we go.
Outside of focusing -- the things that we're focused on are we know we have to get much better at and they are also areas that we believe great opportunity for us.
So the whole notion of the respected brand and our sustainability based efforts and how things play out not only have we've done some of those historically but most people don't know about them and we have to even get that even more accelerated.
So we know that that's something our customers want and it bodes well relative to our business plan.
What we're doing around customization and food it goes right at what consumer are asking us for across demographic tiers and so we know they are the right things to do.
I would tell you Howard the broader question that is out there now and the broader question that we're answering in the local markets is around what we do to shore up the foundation now even in these environments even in these economies even with the other cash flow impact points that maybe out there how we ensure that together we move to show off the base so we're ready for the incremental customers that will come and we build up our peak periods and so that kind of is the foundation of it.
We have to -- your point it's almost an evolving contingency plan.
And believe me there are several other areas that we're looking at outside of the ones that I mentioned but those are the ones that we know would be a solid part of our future growth strategy.
Next question is from Keith Siegner from UBS.
Thank you very much.
I'd like to circle back to a question on the consumer insights from earlier and maybe just ask you in a different way especially given how much attention this got at the November Analyst Day last year.
Forgetting the plan for a second just looking at that data that you are collecting which I understand is pretty robust.
The customers who aren't coming as much or maybe aren't coming these days why are they saying that's the case.
I mean what are they highlighting and kind of how has that evolved as the year progress.
Is it a lack of compelling new news is helpfulness or quality in general coming up more often is it the -- what are the folks not coming actually saying in the data? Thanks.
Well Keith that's a big question for a global brand.
Just the U.S.
If you look into U.S.
there are several things that we see in the U.S.
You all know that the QSR industry as a whole is soft in the U.S.
There are a lot of things that are out there in the U.S.
right now ranging from as I've mentioned some of the legislative matters that are on the board relative to impact of healthcare next year potential minimal wage changes what happens relative to the immigration reform cost particularly around [inaudible].
There are challenges and changes relative to legislation in terms of whether or not there will be re-ups on some of the tax credits tax benefits.
So there are a lot of things that our franchisees are looking at relative to cash flow.
That is one of the things that then flows through relative to execution in the restaurant.
When we first began operations reset we were hearing some customers at the restaurants were getting too complicated it was a little confusing on the menu boards.
We needed to get some level of simplification.
I would say at the same time we're saying and customers are saying we want a little more customization or personalization but we want some different taste.
We want some different condiments the U.S.
is moving forward with the high density kitchen and prep for that.
We're also hearing that there are some consumer confidence related concerns around discretionary spending.
In the U.S.
we see a bifurcation based upon what's taking place in markets that are greater than $75 000 from an overall income perspective and those that are less than say $45 000.
These are two different worlds today.
Those markets at the higher end discretionary spending are still flowing fairly well markets at the lower end it's a little bit tighter.
The geographic positioning of McDonald’s around the U.S.
is broad and so we're in both of those sub markets and pretty good distribution.
That's a little different than some of our competitor set.
So clearly the economy is a bit of a concern and we're hopeful that the economy will continue to improve and that improvement will be across all segments.
But we also have to make sure that we're thriving in this environment so having the right affordability messaging which maybe slightly different in some of these markets than it is in others.
All right.
Our last question is from Paul Westra from Stifel.
Great.
Thanks.
Very similar question to Keith's about the U.S business.
Maybe talk a little bit about more if you could about the weakness perhaps in the overall U.S.
QSR category and specifically do you sense any incremental competitive challenges coming from the convenient store business which you mentioned before and the low end perhaps and perhaps quick casual on the high end.
I know this year emphasis is on the increasing frequency of the base business and perhaps base consumer the ones have stabilized perhaps talk a little bit about the more intermediate term opportunity or product line expansions maybe -- or maybe regain some share from these lower end and higher end categories?  Yeah Paul.
I would tell you that several years ago we began to have conversations just around broader market segments and sets and what we were seeing.
I would tell anyplace a person can stop we view as a competitor whether it’s a petrol station or it’s a convenience store it’s a grocery store ready to eat food or take home food we view the whole set a competitor.
As we look at our business when you got that many places that you can view as a competitor what you have to focus on is what you are good at and what you know you can excel at and differentiate.
We know that the speed of service at McDonald's the accuracy of the service the food quality even in our segment which is a quick service restaurant segment are critically important.
The transparency of our food and the fact that we know that we have very high quality food at McDonald's is one of the messages that I think we have to get out even stronger and it’s one of the things that the overall quick service industry has struggled with for years and years and years.
And so we believe that some of things that we have talked about from many personalization customization high density kitchens highlighting some of the condiments on the prep table those things also help us but it also had to be spread throughout our marketing and our awareness campaigns those are the things that we are focused on and make sure that those things take place.
You know as you look at food away from home right now we know that the food away from home industry is one of that is still increasing albeit about a two percentile rate interestingly enough food at home is 2.4% increase.
So they’re all in the ball park of normalization I guess I call it normal inflation at this point in time.
If one of those shoots up or down we have to take note of it relative to what that meets to our affordability platforms.
If the economy gets better or worse we have note of that relative to what impact it may have on our breakfast business.
So there is a lot of things we look at.
I couldn’t give you Paul you know super specifics on any one item but there is a lot of things we have to look as we mentioned in the business particularly in the U.S.
and go forward.
Okay thanks.
And we are going to go right into Don’s closing comments.
Thank you all very much.
We wanted to take a little extra time because we know you have questions interest relative to the McDonald's business.
I want to thank all of you for joining us this morning.
We remain committed as you can tell to the Plan on Win and our strategic growth priorities as we work to strengthen the key foundational elements of our business and I have mentioned how critical those are.
We know that we can drive our business through the growth initiatives that will enhance our customers relative to the field.
We are seeing that in some of the markets around the world.
Those initiatives and implementations will be broader as we move forward.
Our defensible competitive advantages our resilient business model the communications and alignment that we strive for and have with owner operators our suppliers and company teams those things give me confidence that as we execute our plans to drive profitable growth for our system we will be successful and our shareholders will reap the benefits of that over the long-term.
So thanks again for joining us this morning.
Have a great day everyone.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Hello and welcome to McDonald’s October 21 2014 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald’s Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today’s presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Stent Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald’s Corporation.
Mr.
Stent you may begin.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson and Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen.
Today’s conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available at www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today’s call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
And now I’d like to turn it over to Don.
Don? Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying that we are disappointed by our recent performance which fell short of our expectations.
Global comparable sales decreased 3.3% for the quarter operating income was down 14% in constant currencies and earnings per share was $1.09 a 28% decrease in constant currencies.
Third quarter results remain pressured by a number of internal and external factors.
A significantly higher tax rate which was due to an increase in tax reserves in certain foreign markets impacted earnings per share by $0.26 per share.
In addition the supplier issue in China negatively impacted EPS by approximately $0.15 per share and the estimated impact of store closures in Russia and the Ukraine impacted EPS by $0.01 per share.
Excluding the impact of these items earnings per share for the quarter would have been relatively flat compared to last year.
Pete will talk more about these impacts shortly in his comments.
This morning I’d like to share our strategy for growth and discuss the actions that we’re taking to improve performance in the U.S.
and our priority markets of Germany Japan and Australia.
In some of our markets the reality is that we haven’t been changing at the same rate as our customers’ eating out expectations or more specifically their expectations of us at McDonald’s.
So we’re changing.
And we’re changing aggressively as we refocus on building the business for the McDonald’s system and for our shareholders.
The key to our success will be our ability to deliver a more relevant McDonald’s experience for all of our customers.
We have listened to our customers and we’ve listened to our customers around the world and better understand what their future experience should look like.
Customers want to personalize their meals with locally relevant ingredients.
They also want to enjoy eating in a contemporary inviting atmosphere.
And they want choices; choices in how they order choices in what they order and how they’re served.
These things make up the McDonald’s experience of the future and we‘re building the future today.
Our efforts to create this experience in our restaurants build upon the investments that we’ve already made including the Made for You operating platform modernized decors and leading edge point of sale and mobile technologies all brought together in a visible tangible way to enhance convenience for our customers.
In addition to free Wi-Fi in most of our global system we integrated Apple Pay across 14 000 U.S.
restaurants including our drive-throughs.
We are the only restaurant to offer this payment convenience in drive-through.
We’re also giving customers more choice in how they order and where they eat.
Our multiple order point strategy in countries like France and Australia at self order kiosks as well as mobile orders and payment which support both counter and table service.
Even more importantly we’re offering our customers even more choice as it relates to our menu.
This new concept which we call Create Your Taste combine the custom premium burger platform with the service enhancements I just described to deliver a new dining experience that complements our modernized restaurants.
It’s all of these initiatives combined that create the McDonald’s experience of the future.
Now we've already moved beyond the innovation centre we've already moved beyond the learning labs to initial implementation in markets including Australia the UK and France.
And while the food and service components of the experience of the future will look slightly different in each market based on local customer preferences I am excited about our ability to differentiate the brand and grow the business.
In the US we’ll fully activate this new experience in three markets by the third quarter of next year and plan to bring additional markets on board as they are ready.
And in Australia plans are already in place to scale the experience of the future across the country next year.
We’re working through our global activation plan now and I expect to share more on our next call in January.
Let’s talk a little bit more about the US and the specific actions that we’re taking to improve our business today.
There is no doubt the US is our biggest area of opportunity relative to financial performance.
The questions I receive a number of times as well or not we can drive additional growth in this very important business unit.
Quite simply the answer is yes.
As you know Mike Andres took the helm of the US business earlier this month.
Mike is a progressive strategic thinker whose deep understanding of consumers and the market place is complimented by a significant industry experience.
This past week Mike and I met with our US company and franchise leaders to discuss the tangible steps we’re taking collectively together the reverse business trends today.
We also discussed the actions we’re taking to better connect with customers through our food the service we provide and the experiences that we create.
We’re accelerating efforts to restructure the U.S.
organization and provide more economy at the local level so we can satisfy our customers based on their unique taste and preferences in the markets.
This shift will enable us to better harness and build on the thinking and the power of the 3000 plus franchises and their entrepreneurial spirit and our restaurant executives who are closest to local market conditions.
Our strong menu pipeline in conjunction with greater autonomy in the markets positions these markets to deliver stronger business performance.
This has been a historical strength to the US business and we’re putting it back at the forefront once again.
In January we will simplify our menu to better highlight customers’ favourites and to make the experience faster and easier for our customers and our crew.
This move will open up opportunities for local markets to pull from the robust global pipeline and introduce new taste in our key growth categories of burgers chicken beverages and breakfast.
It will also enable regions to address the unique needs taste and diversity of the local customers with products like the Chorizo Burrito Cheddar Bacon Onion The Clubhouse Burger Mozzarella Sticks and other menu choices that we have both in the U.S.
pipeline and the broader global pipeline.
The step after enhanced local relevance is providing greater personalization and customization on the menu.
And Create Your Taste is designed to do just that.
Our marketing approach is another key priority for us and one where we’ve implemented a number of significant changes in the process the structure and creative direction of our company.
We’re also engaging in more transparent dialog with our customers and consumers in general as evidenced by last week’s U.S.
debut of Our food Your questions.
This build on the success of similar approaches in the UK Canada and Australia.
We are actively inviting customers to join the conversation about the topics that matter most to them relative to McDonald’s particularly the quality of the food we serve in our restaurants.
Conveying the facts and adjusting misperceptions about the freshness quality and integrity of our ingredients appeal to our customers and supports the work we’re doing to offer greater menu choice.
I am confident in our ability to regain momentum in the U.S.
given the actions that we’re taking and the pace at which we’re moving.
Now let’s move beyond the U.S.
to China and Russia.
The supplier issue in China had a significant negative impact on the market’s third quarter results.
Comparable sales were down 22.7% for the quarter.
We are aggressively executing recovery plans in the impacted markets.
We were able to restore full menu to all restaurants in China and Japan by mid September thanks to supply chain and resourcing teams who were able to shift to alternative product sources for the 5 000 plus affected restaurants in less than 60 days.
We’re actively taking steps to rebuild consumer trust.
We recently launched a significant brand trust campaign in these markets and we’re providing compelling value offers to invite customers back.
We expect it will take six to nine more months for our business to normalize in the impacted markets.
Let’s move to Russia where comparable sales remain weak due in large part to the uncertain economic and political environment which is negatively impacting consumer sentiment.
With the instability expected to continue through at least fourth quarter and likely in the 2015 we remain focused on continuing to serve high quality menu items and provide a superior restaurant experience.
Another question I'm sure is on your mind is what are we doing to regain momentum in our priority markets outside of the United States particularly Germany Japan and Australia.
Germany’s third quarter comparable sales continue to be negative but showed some signs of improvement.
We’re adjusting affordability to drive guest counts to our new single double triple burger platform that provides greater value across the burger category.
At the same time we’re strategically increasing average check by promoting core premium and snack items in the markets.
Furthermore the recent changes we made to the marketing organization including a new chief marketing officer and advertising agency will provide innovative thinking and bring fresh new perspectives.
Let’s now shift to Japan.
While current results reflect the impact the supply issue in China weak comparable sales trends had persisted the past several years in Japan.
In addition to the work underway to improve food quality perception the market is working to strengthen its appeal to cost conscious consumers through a renewed focus on value.
Any size strength have been added to the ¥100 menu and new value bundles are now being offered at lunch.
And in Australia comparable sales in September were solid and represented the highest comp since August 2012.
The market is focused on leading with affordability and convenience by re-launching its loose change menu with additional value option in providing a new way for customers to enjoy McCafe beverages and that’s through the drive-through.
And as I mentioned earlier with aggressive support of the franchisees the market is scaling Create Your Taste in 2015 as part of our McDonald’s experience of the future roll out.
Around the world we’re changing and we’re doing it aggressively.
Our business is financially strong and so is our conviction and the future of brand McDonald’s and what we know we can become for our customers.
I’m excited about the work that's coming to life in our markets around the world; we’re tacking our challenges head on.
We’re building on the power of our unique operating model of franchisees suppliers and employees to position our business to deliver strong performance to our system and to our shareholders over the long term.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Pete for some additional texture on our performance.
Thanks Don and hello everyone.
In my nearly seven years as CFO third quarter 2014 was perhaps the most challenging because of the confluence of factors all pointing in the same negative direction.
Similar to Don I will depart from the usual approach to my prepared remarks.
Instead of walking through the income statement I’ll begin by discussing the four most significant factors impacting quarterly results.
From there I will provide the usual updates on some key quarterly numbers commodities pricing and currencies.
Then lastly I will address a couple of topics that I recognized are of utmost interest to you our spending levels and our business model.
Let’s begin by reviewing the significant decline in third quarter earnings per share versus a year ago which was primarily due to four factors.
The first was a much higher effective tax rate of 44.4%.
As indicated in our August sales release we expected the third quarter rate to be above our annual range of 31% to 33% primarily due to a change in our earnings mix.
Subsequent to that sales release two additional factors drove the effective rate even higher the tax and interest cost associated with an unfavourable foreign tax court ruling impacting 2003 through 2008 and the impact of additional changes in tax reserves related to income tax audit progression in certain foreign jurisdictions.
In total the court ruling and our audit related reserve adjustments negatively impacted third quarter earnings by approximately $260 million or $0.26 per share.
The second most significant factor impacting third quarter results was the China supplier issue.
In early September we estimated the total impact from loss sales expenses associated with our customer recovery efforts and the tax effect of these items to be in the range of $0.15 to $0.20 per share.
The actual impact was approximately $0.15 per share and the impact was felt in virtually every line of our P&amp;L.
The markets most affected by this include China Japan and Hong Kong which collectively represent about 10% of global system wide sales and about 5% of global operating income.
Work is underway APMEA to rebuild customer trust now that our supply chain and restaurant inventories have been largely restored.
While we expect our business to fully recover the pace of recovery is difficult to forecast.
With sales trends showing signs of improvement our best estimate is that it will take at least six to nine more months for our business to return to a normalized level.
Based on our current internal forecast we expect the supplier issue to have a negative impact on fourth quarter results in the range of $0.07 to $0.10 per share.
The third significant impact on this quarter’s result was the decline in the McDonald’s U.S.
business.
The segment operating income declined $107 million or about $0.07 per share primarily due to soft comparable sales which contributed to margin declines.
The fourth most significant impact on our third quarter earnings was the decline in Europe’s company operating margins driven by Russia and Ukraine due to the economic slowdown decline in consumer sentiment store closures and weakening currencies in these markets.
In fact these two countries accounted for substantially all of Europe’s third quarter company operating margin decline.
Next I want to provide an update on some key financial items commodities pricing and currencies.
I’ll start with commodity cost for the U.S.
and Europe.
For the quarter U.S.
commodity cost rose 3% primarily due to higher beef and dairy prices.
This pressure is expected to continue into the fourth quarter.
As a result our revised full year outlook for the U.S.
basket of goods is an increase of 2.5% to 3%.
Excluding currency Europe’s commodity costs were relatively flat for the third quarter.
We have reduced our full year outlook for Europe’s grocery basket to reflect an increase of no more than 1% which implies relatively flat commodity cost for fourth quarter.
In terms of menu pricing the U.S.
is running about 2% at the end of September versus year-to-date food away from home inflation which stands at 2.5%.
At 2% our current pricing is notably lower than the 3% pricing level we were at in June.
We felt it was important to bring our pricing more in line with food away from home so we did not completely offset the prior year price increases that rolled off during third quarter.
This pressured third quarter margins and we expected to continue into fourth quarter.
As we’ve said before our preference is to keep pricing at or below food away from home index as we continue to balance the importance of driving guest counts with profitability.
Our price increases in Europe vary by market with the overall segment averaging about 2% year-over-year.
Foreign currency translation negatively impacted third quarter EPS by a $0.01.
At current exchange rates which reflect a stronger U.S.
dollar we expect a negative impact of fourth quarter EPS off $0.05 to $0.06 with a full year negative impact of $0.09 to $0.10.
As usual take this as directional guidance only because rates will change as we move toward the end of the year.
Given these internal and external pressures we remain focused on those things within our control.
At the top of the list is our overall spending.
Starting with capital expenditures at the beginning of 2014 we announced the capital expenditures would be $2.9 billion to $3 billion for the year.
In light of our recent performance and current market conditions we are proactively reducing this.
Our 2014 spend will now be approximately $2.7 billion which will be lower than our capital spend last year.
Through September we have opened about 750 new restaurants totally and expect to open about 1400 new restaurants this year fewer than the 1500 to 1600 originally planned.
This reduction is driven primarily by fewer openings in markets like China in response to local market dynamics.
Earlier this year we indicated we were scrutinizing our G&amp;A spending.
Internally we refer to this initiative as resourcing for growth a name that I think embodies the strategic intent of our process to identify key resources with the potential to be deployed more efficiently and effectively toward our critical growth drivers.
For several months now we’ve been working with third party experts to thoroughly analyze our cost structure in both our corporate and U.S.
functions including our overall organization structure and staffing levels in order to fund key growth initiatives.
Based on our preliminary work we are targeting to identify and redirect nearly $100 million in savings for future long term growth initiatives such as the digital strategy and McDonald’s experienced of the future.
As we move forward I do not expect a significant reduction in our total G&amp;A expense but firmly believe that we are taking appropriate and prudent actions for the long term.
We are balancing the need to curtail spending in certain areas in light of the present situation while remaining committed to funding our more significant growth opportunities.
We expect to share more perspective on our 2015 G&amp;A outlook in connection with our fourth quarter call in January.
As many of you have noted the McDonald’s business model and structure is somewhat differentiated in the restaurant industry.
In our wholly-owned markets which represent over 27000 restaurants McDonald’s is the landlord and the franchisor.
This secures long term tenure at our locations and allows us to make real estate and franchising decisions separately.
We are co-investing with our franchisees in the overall success of the business.
Accordingly alignment is critical and our model is built on a highly collaborative approach which includes engagement with franchisees who operate 81% of our restaurants.
This approach also requires more time and resources both of which we believe result in better long term decisions that benefit both our system and our shareholders.
We also believe that this partnership type approach has ultimately resulted in a superior and stable group of franchisees who generate industry leading average unit volumes and cash flows in virtually all the market in which we compete.
The business model has also served our shareholders well over time with our stock generating total shareholder returns that have exceeded both the Dow and the S&amp;P not only for the last 10 years but over the last 25 years as well.
While McDonald's total shareholder return has lagged the broader markets the last couple of years we are confident that the actions we are taking in both the near and long-term will position us to continue to deliver significant shareholder returns.
We will continue to consider new opportunity to enhance both short and long-term value.
Above all else we seek to balance the needs of all stakeholders from our shareholders to our franchisees to the broader McDonald’s system.
We use it as a critical screen for all decisions because that has been the key our enduring profitable growth throughout our history and will continue to be going forward.
Even with softer performance the McDonald's business model continues to generate significant amounts of cash.
During the first nine months of 2014 McDonald's generated $6.2 billion of operating income raised the quarterly dividend 5% to $0.85 per share and returned $4.6 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
McDonald's current three year cash return target of $18 billion to $20 billion is a testament to our ongoing commitment to built long-term shareholder value.
As we enter fourth quarter and prepare our plans for 2015 we recognized that improved results won't happen overnight.
Let me share with you our current view on how 2014 will close out.
While our underlying goal is to change the trajectory of our financial performance our internal projections assume continued sales and earnings pressure on the business in the near-term.
Given the nature of the factors that I discussed which are impacting our global business we expect top and bottom-line performance to remain pressured in fourth quarter with comparable sales expected to be negative in October.
Let me assure you that there is an acute understanding of the situation along with a strong sense of urgency to take the necessary steps to address our current challenges.
Hopefully you heard some of that on the call today.
We are confident that the work being done by our teams around the world will yield sustained profitable growth in the long-term.
We have faced numerous challenges throughout our history and have always managed through these cycles.
If you could travel the world and visit our franchisees and our restaurant teams you would share our confidence that we will manage through these latest challenges as well.
It all comes back to the strength of our brand our business model and our approach to investing and growing the business over the long-term.
Our North Star continues to be the customer in better delivering on their needs.
Since our founding in 1955 that has been the key to our growth and profitability.
Thanks.
Now I'll turn it over to Chris to begin the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Pete.
I will now open the call for analysts and investor questions.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question is from Brian Bittner of Oppenheimer.
Thank you.
As it relate to your U.S.
performance I believe the comp underperformed the industry by a little over 500 basis points in both July and August.
And I was wondering if you could provide what that gap to the industry looked like in September? Hey Brian this is Don.
Yes our comp gap in the month of September was a little over 600 basis points so a 6.3%.
Next question is from Joe Buckley of Bank of America.
Thank you.
A couple questions if I can.
So you’re talking about a couple of changes in the U.S.
a simplified menu effective in January and then three markets where you have either more extensive Create Your Own experience changes.
Could you talk about what a customer in the U.S.
restaurant is going to see broadly I would assume in January from a simplified menu? And then what they are going to see and experience in those three markets that I think you are targeting for the third quarter? And then just one financial question.
Pete the CapEx coming down make sense I think.
How much more room is there for 2015 in terms of that CapEx number coming down more significantly? Hey Joe.
First of all relative to consumers in the U.S.
in 2015 they will see several different things.
And I'll try to talk about a few of those.
One is because we are moving to more regionalize local windows again which is a strength of the McDonald system and we have moved away from that.
They will see more regional products throughout the U.S.
We have about 21 regions.
We have over 150 odd cooperatives across the United States and so those markets will get to pull down from shelf promotions.
And they can pull down from some of the broader menu pipeline offerings that we have.
So customers will begin to see that again and there will be a stronger balance between the regional markets and then the national base marketing.
As you may recall the regional markets typically will focus on offerings and promotions the national markets will focus on the quality the brand McDonald what we are talking about relative to our people in larger events.
So that's one major change that you will begin to see and customers will see.
The second one is going to be how we engage in conversation with our customers through both social and traditional medium.
So this is going to be something that's more felt and heard relative to dialog than it's just basically seen.
With the launch of Our food Your questions is a great example of that and that is a platform we will leverage across the year.
You will see initial expansion of the experience in the future in those three markets that we talked about.
Experience of the future is much more than just Create Your Taste it is a broader service experience it is a broader digitally engaged if you would mobilily engaged experience in the restaurants.
And some of you may have seen that relative some of our markets like France or what's taking place in Australia.
Also we will be launching the mobile app the global app.
In the U.S.
it will include promotional offers also some mobile payment opportunities such as Apple Pay and also some things possibly with our e-Arch Card.
And the last piece would be some of the markets may see some of the testing that would go on relative the various pricing structures that had been a balance pricing relationships across the entire menu board.
So these are some of the things that will be out and about in the marketplace.
And I’m sure our customers will give us appropriate feedback.
But we look aggressively to get these things moving.
And Joe its Pete.
Regarding the CapEx question a significant majority of this year's reduction was due to a reduction in openings.
And we are frankly scrubbing the pipeline and there is probably opportunity for that new opening number to go down a little bit more next year.
What we are going to continue to investigate as we move to finalizing the plans over the next month to six weeks is what is the level of reinvestment spending that we’re going to need around the experience of the future and some of these initiatives.
So when we get back together in January we’ll be able to give you more specific guidance not only on total capital but how that splits between new units and reinvestment.
Next question is from Matt DiFrisco at Buckingham Thank you.
I guess Pete can you just talk about how may be in context the recent struggles globally especially in APNEA may have impacted some of the things I think that people have also discussed or debated with you somehow opportunities possibly to refranchise take that 81% global number higher as well as maybe even divesting some businesses like Japan is there any impact to the valuation of what we might get from those of the cash proceeds? Given the near term struggles if you can give us any sort of color on that or does that sort of push down and kick the can down the road a little longer on maybe being able to see some of those monetization of that? Yes Matt for this year-to-date we’ve refranchised a little over 300 restaurants compared to about 225 a year ago.
So we were starting to see a nice uptick in the activity and 90% that refranchising this year was in our focus areas of Europe and APMEA.
As you point out -- and a big bulk of those were in China.
And so as you point out with the supplier ratio over there our activities are probably delayed slightly but I don’t think dramatically because this is a temporary event.
It will return to normal and the business model is still attractive and still franchisable.
So while it may be slightly delayed we don't see it having a significant impact in either our timing or our ability to extract value from those refranchising transactions.
Next question is from Nicole Miller Regan at Piper Jaffray.
Thank you good morning.
On the technology front I think I heard you say you are bringing some new technologies to U.S .markets.
Can you talk about how you chose them and if they’re giving a full suite of offerings or is it going to be kind of a layered approach? And then just a follow up on a number or comment around APMEA in saying it takes six to nine months potentially to get to a normalized level.
Could you define that is normalized less negative or positive? Thank you.
Hi Nicole I talk a little bit first about the digital piece and then we can talk about the recovery efforts over in China specifically.
Relative to digital as you may recall Nicole a couple of years we began to focus quite intently on our digital efforts and we have done several things.
One is that we move forward to be able to bring in appropriate talent to support our digital effort.
So we brought in Atif Rafiq who had a tremendous background in the tech sector and more specifically with Amazon.
We also have been hiring quite a few digital leads around the world from world class organizations.
And to that point we actually opened up our first digital office at San Francisco near Silicon Valley to continue to be able to recruit and bring in talent.
That is a critical aspect of how we select the applications and the platforms with which we move forward.
We also have several markets around the world that had a jump start relative to some of the mobile applications such as France with mobile pay and actually some promotional offers.
So we have leveraged that.
We did a major test in Australia to look at the actual global application what we call the global app which is built upon our new path technology system and allows us to continue to add on different applications to support various needs from pay and order to other things such as music.
We’ve talked about those in the past.
That global app will be launched in 2015 with some of the promotional offers in the U.S.
and we will continue expanding the already established mobile applications that we have in some of the markets outside of the US.
So we are pretty excited about those.
We are also excited about the relationship that we have begun to cultivate the most recent of which was Apple Pay and we’re the only restaurant as I mentioned that will be able to allow consumers to leverage Apple Pay in the drive-through.
And so and one of the only restaurant businesses that Apple has had a strategic partnership with.
So that is the beginning of some of the things that we are doing; there are more things that we have in the pipeline.
Relative to the recovery in China when we assess the six to nine months we work with the local markets and we look at their timeline there are several things that have been done there.
First of all in China we had to make sure that we can solidify the supply chain.
As I mentioned the folks did an aggressive job a great job aggressively of being able to really reallocate our supply chain in 60 days to ensure we can get China and Japan back up.
We also wanted to make sure that relative to anything that has taken place in that market there are food safety processes procedures was robust as they should be and as we wanted them to be.
We have hired outside food safety auditors to support those the things that we do in that regard along with additional training of our employees.
So those things do take a look at more time.
And then once we got supply back in the market place we began and launched our brand trust campaign which is a holistic brand recovery campaign focused on bringing customers back into the restaurant.
As you know in China if there is an incident such as avian influenza or food scare or food quality scare it does take a while for customer to come back to any restaurant establishment.
So that's how we have worked with our local market and some of the things that we have been doing and again we assessed it at six to nine more months before we see recovery.
Next question is from David Tarantino of Robert W.
Baird.
Hi Good morning.
My question for Don on the overall strategy.
I guess one of the hallmarks the way I understand it of McDonald's is the speed and consistency of the operations and I think you have highlighted some struggles on that front this year and I just wanted to get an update on your progress on improving your operations.
And then secondly I think a lot of the initiatives you are talking about the experience of the future sound like they might be adding more complexity to the system.
So everything from localization to create your own taste.
So I am just wondering if you could comment on your confidence level on being able to execute that that added complexity if you will? Thanks for the question David.
First of all you know anything that we would implement in an restaurant we have taken it require a bit of testing.
So relative to create your case has been through the innovation lab the innovation center and the testing protocols there it has been in a restaurant near the innovation center we moved it out to Lagoona we had had testing outside of the U.S.
in some of the markets and now as we move forward in Australia what they are really doing is the soft the front side of the role out in the Australian market.
And so we know that from an operational perspective we are able and capable of delivering this experience in the restaurant enabled by the technology advancements and the point of sale platform that we put into the restaurant.
So on the operational side they are relative to Create Your Taste we built very very strongly that that is doable.
We know it is based upon what we have done already relative to basic simplification of the restaurant and rating ourselves for things like Create Your Taste and for basic customer satisfaction at higher level.
In markets like the U.S.
they been through what they call an operations reset.
That operations reset combined with the minimum simplification efforts that our aimed at reducing complexity of low volume items.
That's an important part.
The complexity of low volume items are the things that we’re looking to simply and remove from the restaurants.
When we do that we enable ourselves to be able to then pull down additional products that we can flow through our operating system in the U.S.
Now one of the things that I would also add here is when you look at some of the things that we are looking to do in terms of products those products are actually made easier based upon some of the investments we made whether they be the point of sale system or may be things like the high density kitchen where we have more condiments that we are able to make relative to putting those things inside the Made for You cooking system.
So the Made for You system simplification of some of the items and our focus on operations are the reason that we have high confidence in Create Your Taste relative to the in store capability.
The other thing that I mentioned at this point and some of you already know this Create Your Taste is an in store execution as we began.
That is the way that we are delivering on that expectation and experience in the restaurant.
Customers seem to really really -- it appeals the customers in a great way and will continue doing that.
We have a different solution that we are work on relative to the drive-through.
Next question is from Jeff Bernstein of Barclays.
Great.
Thank you very much.
So a question on the U.S.
business.
I know in the press release and in your comments earlier you made -- mentioned I think that the issue at least from a sales perspective is more sustained competitive activity I know over the past year or two.
I think that was more down played I think was more you guys in the management believe and that it was more self-inflicted less about what these more peers might be doing.
But maybe just in terms of that change in view like what have the sandwich competitors done most recently that might have negatively impacting McDonald’s? And how much credit maybe do you give to the strength of whether it's just casual or whether it's the consumer push into better quality healthy offerings? I mean just seems like there is a confluence of factors that sound which might be now out of your control relative to self-inflicted.
Any thoughts on that would be great.
Hey Jeff.
We -- one thing we do not do too often Jeff and you probably won’t hear us do too often and that’s talk about for fact that our focus is now on competitive pressure.
What we do is acknowledge it; they’re folks in the marketplace that are doing some solid things.
I would still hold true to the fact that our biggest challenge is what we do at McDonald’s and how we move forward.
Do we have the aggressiveness in the local markets have we allowed the aggressiveness in local markets or have we been a little bit more focused on an aligned national platform which doesn’t leverage that local relevance.
And if I look that the local GRPs that I then assign against those local relevance products as they are putting for those in their local windows in the markets we have not been as strong as we need to be.
And I think that is one of the areas relative to our menu that you guys haven't seen and many of you have asked questions about.
What is in the menu pipeline? I think you'll get a broader chance to see that as the local markets as we get back to what we've historically done with local markets.
Allow them to pull down products that are relevant in their markets and to drive those aggressively.
And so we are going to do that.
Notwithstanding competitors that are there competitors have always been in the marketplace.
It can't be used as an excuse for us.
What it is is an opportunity for us to build our business by taking back some of those folks who are visiting others right now.
Next question is from Will Slabaugh of Stephens.
Yes.
Thanks guys.
I wonder if you could touch a little bit more on the U.S.
trends.
In September in particular what you would credit that slow down to despite the interest you're picking up little bit? And if also you could speak the different day for us such as breakfast where you did giveaway some coffee and then lunch and dinner where it seems like competition is both picking up on the value and premium end? If there is much difference in sales growth or declines I needed those (inaudible)? Will so a couple of things.
This year as you just mentioned in the U.S.
system they focused on coffee and also there was NFL promotion.
Last year it was comping against wings which do drive a higher average check in sales.
While not as successful as we wanted wings to be last year.
but by most measures it was still a solid promotion relative to going up against the NFL promotion and coffee.
So those two things did not deliver at the same rate while we were able to sample quite a bit of coffee.
And our breakfast business overall is up on the year and continues to be up.
The challenge that we have had is that it has to be about more than breakfast.
So when you look at that balance -- and I just talked about local markets we have got to focus on that breakfast and coffee aspect as well as focusing on larger sandwiches which enhance and increase that average check.
And so that was one of the gaps that -- the biggest gap I would say that we had in the month of September.
What we comped up against and also the fact that our promotional efforts were more sample based in terms of driving coffee than they were more of a breakfast building base just for that particular month.
And I know that the U.S.
system understands and realizes that as we move forward.
Next question is from Andy Barish of Jefferies.
Hey guys.
Just wondering more near-term and then 2015 kind of the extent of the McOpCo margin decline kind of Q4 versus 3Q? And then I know its early but how are you guys thinking about what you need to start to drive those McOpCo margins back higher whether its comps or the commodity environment for 2015? Andy good question.
For 2014 as we kind of -- as I indicated in my remarks we see continued pressure in the fourth quarter.
Reflecting on the factors that were impacting the third quarter right U.S.
the biggest factor driving the U.S.
decline vis-a-vis the decline in the second quarter was less pricing.
And so we would expect less pricing to still be a factor in the fourth quarter as well as the 3% commodity increase.
Those were the two biggest factors driving this quarter.
And thus we see it now will impact the fourth quarter as well.
In Europe virtually a 100% of the decline was in Russia -- was due to Russia and Ukraine.
75% of that was Russia the rest was the Ukraine.
With the relatively favorable commodity environment over there a lot of the other markets were doing fairly well on their margins actually.
UK was driving it and Germany continued to be the biggest drag on the McOpCo margins outside the Ukraine and Russia for Europe.
And it’s too early to give a picture on 2015.
But as you point out driving comps our McOpCo margins are really a top-line gain and driving comp sales is going to be the biggest key to getting that going again.
Next question is from Jeff Farmer of Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
I did hear your comments on minor reductions for future developments.
But why do you believe only a minor reduction is appropriate? And I guess what you mean by that is just going back to what other timeframe was the early 2000s U.S.
(inaudible) sales were soft you guys were losing shares.
And I think it was in the early 2000 2002 2003 along those lines you dramatically dramatically got new development and then within couple years life got better and realize that it's not all cause and effect it’s not that simple.
But again just sort of thinking bigger picture here what's the hesitation in pursuing your better is not bigger strategy in 2016 and beyond? Why don't you think that would not work again? Hey Jeff this is Don.
And I ask Pete to comment as well.
Let me just draw a little distinction here.
Relative to what happened in the early 2000s that development was taking place primarily in the U.S.
business.
So when we were -- in the U.S.
business we were trying to grow via development and that development was being driven across the market.
We were not as sophisticated as we are in site selection.
It was more based upon basically new unit movement or new unit sales and that is not the appropriate formula.
So today if I look at where we are growing that gives us some confidence relative to how we are growing at what pace.
When you're developing into markets like the Chinas of the world the Indias of the world some of the other markets across Europe and Asia Korea then those markets have yielded some more solid returns.
And so I just want to draw a little distinction.
This is a very different approach.
We have much high levels of site selection capability than we did then and it is not a concentrated and focused growth like it was in the U.S.
it's a much more diverse portfolio.
Yes.
And Jeff I just add a couple of points.
One the starting point is dramatically different from 2002.
I mean we are starting from a much higher position of average unit volumes.
And actually our new store returns are doing fairly well.
So as I said earlier to Andy comps are the key to getting the margins and the profitability going again around the fringes.
Turning a 100 or two openings up the portfolio for year is not going to have a dramatic impact.
And in fact the down point our site selection capabilities are too old the number of markets we are growing in is much more expanded than it was a little more than 10 years ago.
So we feel it’s appropriate to skim back a little bit but for the long-term perspective and growth of the business we are going to continue to open a units where it makes sense and where we are going to get good returns.
Next question is from Keith Siegner of UBS.
Thanks.
Pete of the over $200 million year-over-year reduction APMEA operating profit dollars how much of that reduction came from the loss of sales and the deleverage effect versus how much came from may be more discrete items like inventory write off as you throughout put (inaudible) or anything else that might be one time? If you could give us some color on those two pieces that would be very helpful.
Thanks.
Yes Keith at the operation income level the China supplier issue that $0.15 translated into about $180 million of operating income decline.
Roughly half of that was McOpCo margins.
So that I would argue was that clearly was sales driven.
Then the next biggest peach was our lower earnings pick up from our joint ventures notably Japan and while that had a little bit of inventory write off and some other costs that result would also mostly sales driven along with royalty some franchisee support and then finally there were probably about $20 million that was truly inventory write off and an additional supply chain cost to get that supply back on par in China and Hong Kong.
The next question is from Sara Senatore of Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you.
It’s just two kind of related questions.
The first one is the overarching concern I sometimes hear is that McDonald's is struggling to resonate with millennial consumers in particularly in the U.S.
And so I was wondering if you could talk about the two strategies that I think you might be most targeted to that group and whether you are starting to see any initial signs that you are getting traction? And those are -- and my interpretation would be the sort of digital social media and then also the our food your questions and just whether or not that strategy is working because it sounds like you are not actually changing recipes in response to concerns you just change kind of explain and alleviate some of those concerns.
So if you just talk realistically about kind of the millennial question? Thanks Sarah.
The real point so let me just broadly relative to millennial.
If you look at the quick service restraint industry there is a decline relative to millennial usages of the quick service restaurant industry.
I think that as we look at it as McDonald's what we believe that we are able to do is to appeal to some of those customers and clearly come into our business.
And so as we look at it and I should say appeal to more of those customers and customers use our business now but appeal to more of the millennials.
But it is a much broader aspect in the millennial.
Our Food Your Question is about creating a dialog.
It is not about a one question answer kind of a piece.
Usually there is a back and forth relative to ingredients platforms integrity sources in terms of where our food comes from.
It may be relative to social responsibility.
What we are doing relative to deforestation.
So there are a number of questions that come up and it is about engaging in a dialog.
We want to make sure that we are a transparent brand.
There are a lot of misperceptions out here relative to our food and what we want to do is make sure that we at least provide an opportunity for people to directly ask those questions.
So this for us is just a way for us to better build this brand and tell the truth about McDonald's and our supply chain which is absolutely fabulous.
And so that it the intent there.
On the digital front we believe that digital mobile technologies kiosk related ordering the opportunities to be able to allow customers choice in their McDonald's experience is good for all of our customers.
We think that there may be a skew clearly to a millennial that would be probably and even stronger skew towards those that are younger than millennials but as we move forward that is one of the things that we would be able to better define.
We do know that the experience of the future resonates well with our customers around the world.
We have four more questions.
So we will take those.
First David Palmer of RBC.
Thanks.
Just a follow up on that the millennial issue has been well documented but I guess we should keep in perspective that the U.S.
factory comps are up I think around 2% lately.
So do you believe that there is more of millennial issue with McDonald's and that's the differentiator and I suspect that you in your own self assessment see some other key differences there resulting in the widening gap to the industry and what you think those are? Thanks.
David I believe that relative to the comp gap so I think the comp gap is a combination of several things some things relative to what we are conveying out there relative to what others are conveying in terms of the menu offerings.
I think that is one of the challenges.
I think it is also about the value that we are offering or not offering and that is another aspect of the comp gap.
If you look at some of those changes the question is whether or not our value and our food options are resonating as strongly and so I believe that that is the fundamental basis of some of the challenges that we are having.
Having said that one of the ways that we best address that is by ensuring that the local markets have the opportunity to move forward to products and the offerings that will resonate locally.
When I say resonate locally that means resonate across the demographics of those local areas.
So that is everything from millennials all the way up to those that are more mature in the marketplace that are coming to visit McDonald’s or other (inaudible).
So what we want to make sure we do is have the right food the experience is right and we’re engaging customers to be able to have their choice and a great McDonald’s experience with great food quality and great service and a clean environment as we always done and at an affordable price.
When we’re able to do that at McDonald’s we’ll be fine within the marketplace in terms of generating sales.
The broader opportunity is to be even more relevant relative to the digital experience the restaurant of the future and the customization opportunities for our food and that’s what you heard us talk a little bit about today.
Next question is from John Glass of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
I wanted to go back Pete to the G&amp;A question and why you’re not seeing or don’t think you can actually get net positive reduction in G&amp;A? Your G&amp;A runs higher substantially higher at least on a per store basis than your peers and I understand you got more complexity but you’ve also got better scale.
So I guess just two questions you can respond to that but two questions I guess around.
One what is the chance you actually you will be able to see a net reduction in absolute G&amp;A in ’15 not how much but just can you do that? And secondly maybe help us understand the $2.5 billion in SG&amp;A how much is actually G&amp;A and how much is corporate versus what’s in the fields or in the divisions? Hey John.
As we talked about from the very beginning when we start talking about this scrutiny of the G&amp;A we believe that there are significant opportunities to grow this business by investing in the digital strategy and this McDonald’s experience in the future and so smarter for us we think to redirect resources to that.
And as I indicated we believe we’re targeting about $100 million from U.S.
in core to repurpose if you will or redirect to those initiatives.
And we believe over time we’ve continued we always look at ways to be efficient and more effective with our spend.
If we thought minus three was our trend line for the next couple of years you’d be hearing a more dramatic cut and taking cost out of this business because that would be the only way to continue to grow profitability if we saw that was a permanent change to our revenue stream.
But we don’t believe cutting our way to prosperity is going to be helpful for the long term of this business and smarter for us we think to redirect these savings into these growth opportunity that Don outlined.
Next question is from Howard Penney of Hedgeye.
Thanks very much.
Last night the CEO of Chipotle spent 10 minutes of his opening comments on his conference call basically attacking the legacy QSR operators with business models and I could just paraphrase as being broken given the type of food they serve.
And if I broaden those comments out to what CEOs of supermarkets like (inaudible) telling about more customers coming into the natural all natural organic GMO free products.
is Mr.
Ells first of all and the lot of things that you talked about today I can appreciate the need for the technology but it doesn’t feel like you’re really going in the direction where consumers are going.
So just curious as to you think that Mr.
Ells justified in his comment the legacy (inaudible) operators which I assume he included you in that comment.
Thank you.
Hi Howard thanks for the question.
Howard we believe that if you look at the broader market and you look at what customers are asking for they are asking for transparency they’re asking to know what’s in the food they’re asking for integrity of the food.
There are cases and there are markets where organics are drivers at a higher level.
But I would offer is that the highest level is more about their transparency integrity and also the ability to customize and have what they want on a sandwich or a burger.
I think it is what has given rise to so many very small but quite a few burger openings specialty burger house openings.
And so there is still quite a resonance relative to food there is a big resonance relative to how I can customize.
There is an appeal and you’ll see us in some categories looking to different products possibly organics we actually are doing it in certain markets.
But I would it’s not the main driver if you would we’re at the main drive but I mean we wouldn’t have the clearly the number of customers that we have today visiting the McDonald’s restaurant.
I will never say that someone else particularly (inaudible).
I know Steve I use to visit his first restaurant when we entered into an initial partnership back then when we were sharing the McDonald’s supply chain system which helped him as he move forward Chipotle.
But I would not say Steve is wrong or right I think each individual organization has to look at that and look at it through the eyes of the customers and what customers are asking them to deliver.
And so I think you’ll see a lot of changes though Howard I mean if these things become even more large even more trendy then that something clearly we’ll look even more aggressively at.
But we do have markets around the world that focus more on organics we have markets that focus more on locally relevant products.
France just finished up one of their launches and it was basically speaking about French beef; we talk about Australian beef over in Australia.
In the U.S.
I think we have some additional opportunities to talk about the fact that the vast majority of our food at McDonald’s in the U.S.
is produced right here in the U.S.
so we have some opportunities to talk about that in the U.S.
a little bit more.
Our last question is from John Ivankoe of JPMorgan.
Great thank you so much.
Don my perception is been that your previous health and wellness movement and I am not talking about just organic but just health and wellness in general but previously ‘80s and the ‘90s were driven from an older and drastic and maybe what’s different now is that the movement is being driven by younger demographic that's in younger demographic that according to your own data that you don’t have the appeal to as may be you did to that same age cohort 10 or 20 years ago.
I mean - you haven’t even mention the words for McDonald’s about health and wellness and just what kind of an opportunity that you would have and if I can ask the question directly I mean why is that really front n centre in terms of lot of the product development work that we’re talking about today? Great question John and actually it is.
Health and wellness defined by many of the customers that we talk to coming to McDonald’s were visiting the informal eating out industry.
And that's a big point those that actually visit the industry and buy food from the industry.
We - its translated into real and fresh in many cases and that has been a major driver of our strategies as we move forward.
Customers want real food and they want to make sure they understand that its real food and they want fresh food.
So they want to understand the sources or the origin they want to make sure that I know what’s it where it came from and the integrity of those sources.
And so what we’re trying to do is more visually depict that both in our marketing in our foods of question and even more importantly at the important movement of truth which is in the restaurants and for those of you visit our restaurants and been behind the counters you’re seeing the freshness and the quality of our produce.
However not everyone has done and seen that and so we want to make sure that we’re transparent enough to do that many times real and fresh is also conveyed.
If you look at it relative to those products those offerings that are selling the most it’s based upon the component make up of the food itself.
So it may be differences in cheeses differences in sauces all of these things either things that make up a great tasting burger or sandwich we’re offering today.
And so this is a direction that we’re moving in and we’ll continue to stay close John with our customers relative to what it is they want and what it is that they want to see because we can deliver that as a McDonald’s system.
That concludes our Q&amp;A.
So I’ll turn it over to Don who has a few closing comments.
First of all thanks for your participation this morning as we wrap up the call I really appreciate again all of you joining us.
We have a clear plan to regain momentum in the U.S.
and I think you’ve heard that and we want to regain momentum around the world as we aggressively advance programs and initiatives that are designed to deliver more relevant experiences and as we bring the McDonald’s experience to the future to our customers even faster.
We’re ready to drive our business forward by creating real and noticeable changes for our customers and partnership with our tremendous system of franchises supplier partners and company employees.
Our actions are intention and they strategically address what customers want from us today.
They’re based in the insights that we have gained from the marketplaces and they’re based in what customers will expect tomorrow.
I'm excited about the work that we’re doing and I'm confident we will achieve our goals.
I just wish you all a great day and a great weekend.
Take care.
Hello and welcome to McDonald's January 23 2015 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today's presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Stent Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Mr.
Stent you may begin.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson; and Chief Financial Officer Pete Bensen.
In addition McDonald's USA President Mike Andres will join us for Q&amp;A.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Don I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available on www.investor.McDonald's.com as are our reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Don.
Don? Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
2014 was a difficult year during which performance fell short of our expectations.
But it was also a building year.
As we entered 2014 we were well aware of the obstacles that we faced in terms of growing comparable sales and margins amid ongoing broad-based challenges and cost pressures throughout our P&amp;L.
Now while some of the challenges were anticipated others were not like the supplier issue in Asia Pacific and Middle East Africa and the volatile operating environment in Russia and the Ukraine.
And we experienced shortfalls in our internal plans particularly in key markets such as the U.S.
In response to these shortfalls we took a number of important steps to lay the foundation for our turnaround.
We're acting with a sense of urgency as these steps are critical to addressing current performance and to advancing our longer term strategies.
Specifically we renewed our focus on our customers with the evolution of our strategic plan.
We brought in new talent in several major markets around the world to provide innovative thinking and fresh perspectives.
We announced the changes that we are making to the U.S.
organization to put decision-making and accountability closer to the customer.
We redefined menu choice and personalization with the introduction of the Create Your Taste platform in Australia and the U.S.
We focused on the service experience through an increased emphasis on operations excellence and the initiation of our global digital strategy.
And we did more to bolster trust in brand McDonald's because we know that when our customers feel good about us and about eating at McDonald's they visit us more often.
Now let's turn to 2014 results.
In constant currencies operating income was down 15% for the fourth quarter and 8% for the year.
Earnings per share was down 14% for the quarter and 11% for the full year both in constant currencies.
Excluding the impact of the higher tax rate and the supplier issue in APMEA earnings per share for the year would have been down 1% in constant currencies.
For the full year global system-wide sales grew 1% in constant currencies and global comparable sales were down 1%.
Comparable sales were down 90 basis points for the quarter.
Looking to January comparable sales are expected to be negative due in part to the shift in Chinese New Year and consumer perception issues in Japan.
The changes we are making are designed to refocus our system on those areas that matter most to our customers today and for the future.
And that starts with deepening our relationship with customers to increase relevance drive traffic and position McDonald's for longer term growth.
Our actions are guided by our four strategic growth priorities which are broad enough that markets adapt and focus on those elements most relevant to the local customer basis.
Beyond our existing menu we are asserting McDonald's burger leadership by offering greater customization and choice.
Not only does Create Your Taste provide new menu news that excites consumers it has the potential to lift sales of core classics by bringing more customers into our restaurants.
At the same time we are strengthening the menu pipeline to create greater choice at the local level that reflects attributes like taste preferences and demographics and those things that makes each market unique.
Greater localization enables us to take advantage of those attributes and tailor our menu and our marketing efforts to strengthen our relevance and appeal to customers in those regions.
You will also see changes in our customer service models as we work to create more memorable experiences and to deliver unparalleled convenience.
For example multiple order point strategies include self-order kiosk table service or mobile order and payments will modernize our customers interact with our brand and quite simply make it easier to get McDonald's their way whatever that might be.
We're also strengthening the value proposition.
We're strategically evaluating pricing relationships across the entry level core and premium tiers of our menu.
At the same time we are thinking differently about how to encourage customers to bundle products and use add-on purchases to create a satisfying affordable meal.
We will also see a shift in the way we engage our customers and consumers in general.
We are being bold and direct as we talk about what matters most to customers especially the quality of our menu ingredients with multifaceted efforts like Our Food Your Questions in markets including the U.S.
Canada and Australia.
Collectively these changes create the McDonald's Experience of the Future which brings the work that's happening within each strategic priority together to deliver changes our customers will notice.
It builds on the investments we've already made in technology re-imaging our restaurants and operations improvement with an increased emphasis on tangible customer-centric innovations for menu and service to profitability grow the business.
We have enduring competitive advantages that have served us well over time and those advantages are even more relevant today.
Our size and geographically diversified restaurant portfolio allow us to test new products and concepts at a local level and then broadly scale those that are successful like we've done in the past with beverages and like we are currently doing with Create Your Taste.
McDonald's operates as one single brand allowing us to focus our energy and resources on evolving the customer experience and changing the way we engage with consumers while also leveraging the equity inherent in our iconic core products.
Our global infrastructure enables us to tap into a variety of perspectives and expertise.
Our franchisees are an integral part of the communities in which they do business.
Suppliers bring innovations in their disciplines and company employees focus on strategic direction to complement day-to-day execution in our restaurants.
And finally our strong financial foundation which is supported by industry-leading average unit volumes it enables us to pursue our global growth priorities in every type of operating environment while returning significant amounts of cash to shareholders each year.
Now in our July call we outlined the steps required over a 12 to 18 months period to strengthen our foundation and enhance our relevance and appeal to customers.
Having reached the six month mark we're beginning to see signs of progress in some of our priority markets.
While specifics vary across the markets the underlying formula has been very consistent.
In 2014 these markets brought in fresh leadership with new perspectives on how to get customers back in the restaurants.
They strengthened franchisee alignment in those relationships and reemphasized value and reenergized our marketing approaches.
We're already seeing a shift in Australia which has over 900 restaurants.
It started with fundamental improvements in our marketing efforts and across our entire menu and it was enabled by much stronger alignment with our franchisees.
We're building on this strong foundation with plans to roll Create Your Taste across the majority of our restaurants by the end of this year.
This is first of our priority markets to demonstrate signs of recovery with positive comparable sales and guest counts since September.
It will take longer to see an uptick in the U.S.
which has more than 14 000 restaurants across 22 different regions.
The changes we announced last year to create a flatter more nimble organization have opened the door for decisions to be made closer to the customer.
Mike Andres is on the call today and he can share more during the Q&amp;A about the work that's being done to take shape around our menu marketing and service which will enhance our relevance and appeal to customers.
Now over to Germany; negative trends are beginning to moderate with the month of December marking the highest comparable sales performance in more than two years.
While we expect an uneven recovery as market dynamics remain challenging in the near-term we are focused on driving sales and guest counts by strengthening value offers highlighting the quality of both core and premium products in our marketing messages and aggressively pursuing growth opportunities within the family and breakfast businesses.
Our position in Australia the U.S.
and Germany is much like what the U.K.
experienced in the early 2000.
We can and we will turn around these markets with a balanced approach.
Russia and China are also key markets that are in a recovery mode.
While the specific tactics are different both markets are focused on enhancing our brand image and winning customers back by emphasizing food quality and also celebrating the many reasons to choose McDonald's such as convenience and affordability.
Fourth quarter comparable sales in China were negative 6.7% due to the lingering impact of the supplier issue.
Each month of the quarter showed sequential improvements reflecting the positive impact of our ongoing customer recovery efforts in the market.
Finally in Japan the team continues to work to overcome significant challenges.
The market is executing a multifaceted brand recovery campaign which is designed to rebuild brand trust and strengthen quality and affordability perceptions.
While we know these actions will win back customers history tells us that these efforts would take time to resonate so we expect continued volatility in the market through most of 2015.
2015 will be a year of regaining momentum globally.
We expect further growth amid the pockets of success we're already seeing.
However it will take time especially in our larger markets for customers to notice the comprehensive changes that are underway.
So our internal projections assume continued sales and earnings pressure and volatility in the business particularly in the first half of the year.
In light of continuing headwinds we made thoughtful adjustments to our 2015 plans pulling back in some areas to fund key growth initiatives focused on delivering greater customer relevance broader consumer reach and better restaurant execution.
For example we've reduced capital expenditures by paring back on new store openings in markets that are experiencing significant near-term challenges including China Russia Germany and the United States.
And we're redirecting G&amp;A from the U.S.
business incorporates to priority initiatives that will drive our growth.
We are committed to taking necessary actions to improve performance and position McDonald's for enduring profitable growth into the future.
As we embarked on a New Year we maintain high expectations of our sales and for our brand.
I remain confident in our prospects both in the near and long-term.
We're keenly focused on the opportunities that exist within our global growth priorities to serve our customers' favorite food and drink to create memorable experiences to offer unparalleled convenience and to become an even more trusted brand.
We're changing and we're doing it aggressively.
We know that some tactics will be different from market-to-market and region-to-region around the world.
And that's why our plans are supported by comprehensive and localized execution approaches that rely on our franchisees our company employees and suppliers to satisfy customer expectations and drive stronger business results.
Thanks again for being on the call everyone and I'll now turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Don and hi everyone.
2014 was a challenging year for McDonald's' all around the world.
Our results were impacted on a variety of fronts and across each of our geographic segments.
Today I'll like to spend a few minutes putting our 2014 performance into perspective providing details on some key fourth quarter numbers and outlining the critical components of our 2015 financial plan.
I'll begin by reviewing our results for the quarter and full year highlighting the three factors that had a notable impact on performance in each of our major geographic segments.
First the underperformance of our U.S.
business; throughout 2014 our results reflect the impact of ongoing broad-based challenges including operating in an increasingly competitive marketplace and the sluggish industry growth.
For the year the segment's operating income declined $257 million or 7% partly due to negative comparable sales and guest counts which contributed to margin decline.
U.S.
results were also impacted by higher G&amp;A spending and other operating expenses associated with positioning the U.S.
business for the future including the segment's revamped marketing approach and development of the new brand love campaign.
We expect to encourage additional U.S.
restructuring cost in the first quarter.
The second thing that we can item that affected our global result was the APMEA supplier issue.
The total impact from loss sales and expenses associated with our customer recovery efforts was approximately $110 million or $0.09 per share for the quarter and $290 million or $0.23 per share for the full year.
The markets most affected by this issue include China Japan and Hong Kong.
Prior to the supplier issue these markets collectively represented about 10% of global system-wide sale and 5% of global operating income.
In APMEA our results were also pressured by ongoing performance issues in Japan.
With the full year APMEA's operating income declined 28% or 25% in constant currencies $430 million.
Japan's contribution to APMEA's operating income includes royalties and the company share of McDonald's Japan after tax results.
The third significant impact on McDonald's global results for 2014 was in Russia and the Ukraine.
During 2014 McDonald's Europe experienced significant decline in company operating margins driven by weakening currencies and economic slowdown and store closures in these two markets.
For the year Europe reported a $90 million decrease in operating income a 2% decline in constant currencies with the segment's company-operated margins weighing heavily on results.
The entire operating income declined for the year with solely driven by Russian and the Ukraine company-operated margin results.
Over half of this margin decline reflects the significant impact of weakening currencies on imported commodity costs in these two markets.
We expect this currency impact to significantly pressure the segment's company-operated margin again in 2015 especially in the first half.
While we expect to move beyond some of these unique events of last year certain challenges remain.
In the U.S.
our turnaround initiatives to reignite momentum are in progress.
Mike Andres and the U.S.
leadership team are implanting a new or nimble organizational structure that places decision-making back in the hands of the local market teams.
The U.S.
business is working aggressively to implement these changes but it will take time before we see the benefits in the segment's overall financial results.
In Russia while all of our restaurants impacted by the temporary closures are back in operation.
The market remains in a recession and the economic outlook is weak.
More broadly consumer confidence across most of Europe is forecasted to remain low throughout 2015.
In APMEA in response to the supplier issue customer recovery efforts initiated in September in each of our impacted market while sales trends in China showed signs of improvement during the fourth quarter.
Our best estimate is that it will take at least three to six more months for our business in china to return to a normalized level.
For McDonald's Japan recovery from the supplier issue has not been as strong.
At the same time new consumer perception issues have emerged which have further depressed sales and profitability.
We expect these issues to impact results for the foreseeable future.
Japan remains on our priority market list.
Next I want to provide a 2014 update and a 2015 preview for some of our key financial items; commodities pricing G&amp;A and currencies.
I'll start with commodity cost for the U.S.
and Europe.
For the fourth quarter U.S.
commodity cost rose approximately 3.5% primarily due to higher beef prices.
For the full year commodity cost ended up about 3% which was the upper end of our forecast as reductions in other commodities were more than offset by increases in beef.
Commodity cost pressure is expected to continue into 2015 with the full year increase projected at 1.5% to 2.5%; again driven primarily by beef.
Excluding currency Europe's commodity costs were up 1% for the fourth quarter and were relatively flat for the full year.
For 2015 our full year outlook is for Europe's grocery basket to also reflect an increase of 1.5% to 2.5%.
To help offset this pressure we have taken some price increases.
The U.S.
ended 2014 with pricing abruptly 1.8% notably lower than the 2013 increase of about 3% and lower than food away from home inflation which ended the year at 3%.
During the second half of the year we consciously did not completely offset the prior year price increases that rolled off.
This further pressured our margins during the third and fourth quarter.
And based on where we stand at the start of 2015 we expect this pressure to continue in the near-term.
Our price increases in Europe vary by market with the overall segment excluding Russia averaging about 2% year-over-year.
Consolidated G&amp;A increased 9% in constant currencies for the fourth quarter and 5% in constant currencies for the year.
For the quarter these increases were driven largely by cost associated with positioning our U.S.
business for the future as well as cost related to our long-term growth initiatives.
As I mentioned in October during 2014 we identified $100 million of G&amp;A savings in the U.S.
incorporates.
These savings are being redirected toward our critical long-term growth initiative in 2015.
Our review of the corporate G&amp;A spending was completed in December.
We're nearing the completion of our full G&amp;A review of the U.S.
and we'll provide more details on these efforts later this quarter.
While our G&amp;A increased for both periods in 2014 I want to emphasis an important point.
McDonald's operates in a pay-for-performance culture.
As such short-term incentive pay outs for 2014 were zero for all corporate and U.S.
employees.
In addition 2014 performance negatively impacted management's long-term incentive compensation.
We expect 2015 G&amp;A to increase 7% to 8% in constant currency primarily due to the restoration of incentive pay.
EXCLUDING incremental incentive base compensation 2015 G&amp;A is expected to increase 1% to 2%.
More than 100% of this remaining increase relates to costs associated with the expansion of our strategic growth initiatives including Experience of the Future and our digital strategy.
Foreign currencies proved to be another headwind in 2014 with translation negatively impacting fourth quarter EPS by $0.08 and full year EPS by $0.12.
Given the recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against virtually all major foreign currencies we expect a negative translation in first quarter 2015 of $0.10 per share and a full year impact of $0.35 to $0.40 per share.
As usual take this as directorial guidance only because rates will change as we move throughout the year.
Finally I'd like to share our current capital expenditure and restaurant opening plans for the upcoming year.
Our plan for 2015 capital expenditure budget is approximately $2 billion.
Nearly $1 billion left in our initial capital expenditure plan last year.
The decrease in our 2013 capital expenditures is driven primarily by an $800 million decrease in capital allocated to new restaurant opening.
The most notable reductions will take place in market experiencing the greatest challenges.
China Russia Germany and the U.S.
our $2 billion capital budget is divided relatively evenly with approximately 1.5 year mark for new restaurant openings and the remaining $1 billion is dedicated to re investments.
We continue to rigorously screen new restaurant opportunities to determine where they will generate the most attractive returns given each markets potential competitive environment and current industry dynamics.
In 2015 we do expect to open more than thousand McDonald's restaurants primarily in China the U.S.
Russia and France.
This compares with about 1300 restaurant opening in 2014.
On a net basis we expect 600 to 700 additions for the year compare with approximately 800 in 2014.
The majority of our reinvestment dollars are slated for the U.S.
and the Europe.
Expansion of the Create Your Taste burger platforms up to 2000 restaurants in the U.S.
continue to rollout.
Experience of the Future in Europe accounts for majority of the reinvestment dollars.
Earlier this year we outlined plans for some additional opportunity to enhance shareholder value by optimizing our capital and ownership structure and scrutinizing our G&amp;A spending.
As we close out the first year of our three-year plan I'd like to update you on our progress.
During 2014 we re-franchised over 400 restaurants against our three-year target of at least 1500.
In the area of G&amp;A we identified and redirected nearly 100 million in savings for 2015 for future long-term growth initiatives such as the digital strategy in the McDonald's' experience in the future.
As always we continue to explore additional savings opportunities.
As we move into 2015 we remain on track to deliver against our three year target to return 18 to $20 billion to shareholders between 2014 and 2016 in the form of dividend and share repurchases having returned $6.4 billion to shareholders last year.
We're moving forward aggressively to regain business momentum.
Together; our strategy strength and structure provide the capability and opportunity for us to change the trajectory of the business and our financial performance.
We're on the right path.
We've made tough decisions and are holding ourselves to rigorous standards of performance and are doing more with less.
As a system our charge over the coming year is to accelerate the pace of change and elevate the overall McDonald's experience in the eyes of our customers.
Thanks.
Now I'll turn it over to Chris to begin the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Pete.
I'll now open the call for analyst and investor questions.
[Operator Instructions] To give as many people as possible the opportunity to ask questions please limit yourself to one question.
We'll come back to you for follow-up questions as time allows.
The first question is from Joe Buckley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
I'm going to cheat right away and ask two but that's down from three so I'm actually complying.
A lot of the discussion of plans for the U.S.
and it seems more long-term than near-term.
The near-term sales results notwithstanding the slight improvement in the month of December have been so weak.
I guess I'm curious what the plan is to change the trajectory of sales.
And then the related question I guess is on Create Your Taste I think when we visited the restaurant with you in your mini-meeting in December that was the sixth restaurant with Create Your Taste now you're talking about 2000.
What is making you accelerate this from a financial standpoint? How confident are you that it works? What are the economics in Create Your Taste I guess is the basic question? Hey Joe thanks for the question questions in this case.
Couple of things what I'll do is I'll respond a little bit to the Create Your Taste piece and then I'm going to ask Mike to speak a little bit to some of those initiatives and actions that are actually in the near-term because I think that was really your question.
Relative to Create Your Taste please keep this in mind we have been modeling out looking at Create Your Taste Build Your Burger now for over three years.
We started this in the innovation center.
We moved it to a test restaurant in Romeoville.
As you know Joe when we look at something we look at all aspects of the implementation from not only the production side and the service side to crew interactions to consumer relevance.
And so we've been doing quite a bit in the prior years.
Then we've had this in a restaurant in test in the California area in the SoCal area.
We had it in test for about another year plus.
Also keep in mind that we've had similar initiatives in markets outside of the U.S.
markets like France on the service side of this we've been looking at some of the digital application pieces of this in markets like Sweden.
So all of these things have come together into what we today call Create Your Taste.
So as we move forward now this is not about just having had one restaurant this is about having three plus four-odd years of looking at a concept and various pieces of that concept coming together.
Create Your Taste is not just about the food from a customization and personalization perspective it's also about the digital engagement and interaction of customers via kiosk or mobile ordering.
It's also about a change relative to the interaction with our restaurant employees and how they engage and embrace the customers.
It's also about the physical changes within the restaurant as well as how we present our foods so that you can understand and see the freshness of the produce and the quality of our proteins.
And so this is a much broader piece than simply about the food itself.
It is about the overall experience.
And so hopefully that answers that question.
I'll ask Mike to speak a little bit about some of the things taking place in the U.S.
because there are quite a few relative to the near-term.
Hi Joe.
As you mentioned we're looking at our business clearly from a near-term and a longer term perspective.
In the near-term this is a market share game; it's always going to be a market share game.
So we trust and we expect to see a more customized approach from our owner operators in terms of owner operator-driven business plan locally it's based on the customer insights and the unique competitive sets in the marketplace.
And these plans are going to be multilayered in nature.
You'll see disruptive value.
You'll see new product news.
You'll see service initiatives.
And then our regional management in our new structure is empowered to commit the resources to make these plans come to life.
I don't think we underestimated the power of ownership by owner operators of their own plan to execute on it and get results that we expect to get from those marketplaces.
We're also looking at our marketing approach and making sure that we're leveraging the power of the three layers of marketing.
Clearly we've got our local co-ops.
We've got our national and we also have local store marketing.
And we're looking at a revamped marketing approach that better coordinates the specific roles and deliverables of our co-op marketing plans using more sophisticated analytics and data to understand the best way to approach.
Certainly our national messaging comes on top of it to help build our brand.
We have unique relationship with our customers and the recent advertising is rekindling that relationship in a way that we've been used to over the years and we've enjoyed.
And then the local market aspect of it is that it's been our heritage owner operators at McDonald's being the hub of their local communities very important to our turnaround plan as well as to local marketing store things that they're doing to combat the guy across the street from them that's the key to that.
Then we're looking at how we address the simplicity or the complexity I should say of our menu.
We've simplified our menu as we talked about last month.
That's going into place as a matter of fact this week.
It includes reduction in the EVMs other menu items; our test market results which included faster order times and faster total times in the drive-through continue to see performance above the controls.
So no single initiative is going to drive improvements but it's all these working together and things that will create a differentiated customer experience that our customers will notice.
So we're looking at the U.S.
there's 22 different regions as you know there is multiple markets within those regions.
We're already seeing pockets of success and expect those pockets of success to grow.
And then parallel to this short-term we're looking at a longer term refining our plans to make comprehensive changes that create an enhanced experience for the customers and continue to differentiate McDonald's from the other QSRs.
So Don talked about CYT; you asked about it that is only one element of this refined experience.
It is comprehensive in nature.
We are calling it the Experience of The Future we're co-creating this with our owner operators and we'll present the plan to all of our owner operators at a National Meeting in March.
And right after that we'll start aggressively expanding that up to 2000 stores in 2015.
Okay.
Next question is from Karen Holthouse of Goldman Sachs.
Hi thank you for taking the question.
So we've seen pretty meaningful pressure on margins in the fourth quarter this year and even if the commodity outlook into '15 is fairly muted we are starting to see sort of on a more macro level some signs of QSR wages re-inflating.
Is that something you're also seeing in your system and assuming that is a factor in 2015 how should we think about company's philosophy of accepting that pressure versus passing it on and then on the franchise side really their ability to accept that pressure versus need to pass it on? Hey Karen it's Pete.
As we've talked a lot over these last couple of years margins are such a top line game for us.
So very critical in the margin area that the plans and initiatives that Mike talked about especially in the U.S.
start to gain momentum and get that traction back on the top line.
Having said that we are in a relatively low inflation environment so pricing as I noted in my commentary pricing will still be probably below our average if you assume the low inflationary environment continues.
At the same time multiple states are increasing minimum wages.
We've got National Healthcare impacting 2015 for the first time.
That's going to hit the McOpCo margin for about 20 basis points.
So I think the margin in the U.S.
will continue to be a little bit pressured by the combination of less price flexibility and few of these costs but long-term as the sales get back on track and start to grow that is what will allow us to start to see the margin leverage.
And the same dynamics are impacting franchisees restaurants as well.
As they start to grow guest counts and cash flow they will start to offset some of these pressures.
Next question is from David Palmer of RBC.
Thanks good morning.
Could you talk a little bit more about Europe; my greatest area of curiosity lies with really the heart of Europe France has been getting softer in recent months at least I believe so.
Germany has been soft for a while.
It doesn't look like in those markets you're playing your B game.
You've done a lot of good things there.
Are consumer perceptions of McDonald's in fast food changing in Europe or is this purely an economic issue and what are the steps you're taking to restore growth? Thanks.
Thanks for the question David.
There are some positives and then there are some challengers relative to our business in Europe.
Some of the positives are in 2015 we'll see -- if you look globally around the system first you'll see some good high-yield growth.
There are some parts of the Europe where we will see a little bit of high-yield growth i.e.
Germany we will see a bit projected in '15 and in U.K.
we will see a bit.
France is a more difficult market.
France is actually projected to have some high-yield decline.
We have been gaining our market share in both France and the U.K.
despite some of the difficult broader business or macro environments.
Germany we've lost some share and we talked about Germany as a priority market.
What I will tell you is that as a priority market there were a number of changes that Germany has implemented.
Some of those I spoke to relative to the actual team that we have there our marketing leadership there; actually our agency we changed out the agency in Germany.
We're seeing a collaboration with the franchisees that is much stronger.
So we're making some positive moves in our marketing plans our menu plans.
And we're seeing some changes relative to how we're addressing the consumers in those markets.
So I'm feeling as -- I mentioned Germany had a -- it seems to be we're seeing some recovery in Germany.
We're cautious as we say it because there are some challenges across Europe as we all know right now relative to the Euro itself.
But we are seeing some positive things there.
But I would tell you it's broadly economic in many of the markets with the exception of Germany where we have some things to do in terms of our own internal plans but for many of the other markets we're gaining share or we're at a point where our businesses are continuing to compete on par with our competition there.
So it will be primarily an economic piece relative to Europe.
Next question; Jeff Farmer of Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Just following up on an earlier question what level of same-store sales growth do you guys need in both the U.S.
and Europe segments to hold on to restaurant level margins in '15? And you touched on it but do you have any opportunities in the shorter term to control some of your potential cost on -- you mentioned labor but some of the other cost on the restaurant level line? Jeff historically we've talked about a 2% to 3% -- I'm sorry 2% to 3% comp needed to maintain margins in the U.S.
and again that's been modeled in what we called a normal year.
So when you have normal commodity inflation normal price elasticity and ability to raise prices normal wage inflation et cetera.
So a lot of those variables are a little bit out of whack for 2015.
So the prices I already addressed we don't see getting to our historical levels.
Wages will probably grow a little faster than normal especially if you throw in the healthcare impact of that.
So again as we think about it especially in this first half of the year U.S.
margin will continue to be a little bit under pressure.
Next question is from David Tarantino of Robert W.
Baird.
Hi good morning.
A couple of questions Pete around financial strategies; and I guess first as you get into the re-franchising program that you mentioned are you finding opportunities to potentially go deeper and I guess the big picture question is could you take the system to a much higher franchise percentage overtime say into the 90s or even approaching a 100% of that even practical or are you thinking about it differently.
And then maybe a second part of the financial question would be are there ways to go deeper on some of the G&amp;A cuts.
I know you're reallocating a $100 million but are there other opportunities that you're seeing that might be able to sort of limit the increases that you'll see this year and into next year.
Thanks David.
First on the re-franchising we started out with our guidance we said at least 1500 restaurants.
And we feel comfortable in being able to accomplish that over the next three years.
I'll tell you the dialog with the area-of-the-world Presidents has increased around the re-franchising and the benefit that that can bring to the overall business.
So we're not committing to a new target by any means but we also said that after that three year period franchising will continue to be something that we look at and go after.
So a 100% we will never be but certainly the ability to continue to increase that franchise percentage overtime is something that we will look at.
Yes.
On the G&amp;A side I think we've been fairly consistent since we announced our plans for the savings that we believe there are significant growth opportunities available in this McDonald's Experience of The Future.
And in fact since we first started talking about it we've gotten a little bit more aggressive in our plans to go after that in 2015.
So for the short-term you heard us say we don't think we can cut our way to growth in the G&amp;A area and we recognized these are fairly amount of resources we are reinvesting but we believe that it's right for the long-term benefit of the business as Mike said to we kind of change the customer experience in the McDonald's restaurants and as we think about reallocating kind of growth resources by cutting over 800 million of capital allocated to new restaurant openings and redirecting it towards the McDonald's Experience of The Future we think that's an appropriate and prudent thing to do in this environment.
Next question is from John Glass of Morgan Stanley.
John you there? Yes.
Can you hear me okay? Yes.
We can hear you now.
Okay thanks.
Could you just clarify if the reduction in CapEx is a one-year reduction or you view this as the new run rate and what happens to this windfall is it upside to $18 billion to $20 million return or you're just making up for the shortfall in the cash flow of the business in the last year or so? And then Mike can you just talk about the pricing; I think you said in menu item reductions where are you in that process is it hurting sales have you find it actually as sales neutral the same thing for the pricing adjustment I think you talked about maybe lowering or adjusting prices is it possible to actually see menu pricing going negative as a result of that? All right John.
I will take the first half and Mike will take the second half.
So the cut down to 2 billion that's not a formative run rate.
I mean in these markets that we described you heard us talk about the growth opportunities that exist in these markets is a I'd call it a relatively shorter term re-adjustment as we face the realities of the business environment we are operating in.
And so think about it as this is 2015 only and as we move throughout the year and regain that momentum that Don talked about we'll start to realize where the capital will go in 2015 but keeping that balance between investing in the Experience of the Future and the appropriate level of new restaurant openings and think about all of this in our $18 billion to $20 billion target.
John one of the things and I know there has been a couple of questions around this.
We firmly believe based upon the strength of our business and the reach of our business as you all know we touch about 70 million customers a day.
One of the things that we've not leveraged strongly has been the whole digital engagement aspect.
So as we embarked upon the digital strategy we knew we were embarking upon something that was going to require us to make substantial investments to get it up to par to be able to have mobile ordering and mobile payment to be able to have promotional offerings that really really were relevant to customers today across all age ranges.
And so we've made substantial investments there.
Our focus now is to focus on that in-restaurant experience of our existing base.
So we can improve upon on this whether that's digital engagement the physical assets themselves the way the restaurants look the placement of kiosk in the restaurants our food offerings in the restaurants that is where we're making substantial investments.
This is not that much different.
When we decided that we were going to focus on McCafé at one point pull back some of the new store capital at that time and reinvested it back in existing restaurants.
And so we are doing something very similar as we look at the digital strategy the in-restaurant experience and the Create Your Taste and food experiences in the restaurant.
And so as we look at this we will continue to look at our expenditures both internally and externally but we will also be mindful where we have opportunities in some of the markets to grow as those markets return to the level of growth and the level of I'd say stability that we think is going to be needed for us to be able to continue on new development strategies in some of those markets.
Mike if you would a little bit on the menu.
Yes.
So John the menu rationalization that is being rolled out as we speak we are expecting to see the same results that we saw in the test markets which included obviously it would be a throughput improvement because we're making it easier to order for our customers plus complexity in the kitchen so the time to get that out the kitchen and through the windows increases.
So we're seeing an improved sales result against the control markets and our test to expect to see that happen in the rest of the country.
I did not speak specifically about pricing but did speak about value and that the markets are clearly more targeted in terms of the efforts around value and competitive threats within the marketplaces.
So we're seeing more aggressive disruptive value offers in the marketplaces.
As a matter of fact we are moving to a strategy of more flexibility for the local markets to price dollar menu and more which is complementing their other value messages so the level of aggressive and the tactics can be more reflective of the customer expectations the specific competitor activity and the economic realities of niche market.
Next question; Keith Siegner of the UBS.
Thanks and I want to ask a question about Japan and I realize that it's a relatively small percentage of the overall operating profits but it's having a material impact on results and we've talked about the strategic rationale for this in the past and Pete what you told us is keeping that ownership percentage was important because it let you influence that business and help to improve it.
We've had years of negative same-store sales including unit closures.
You just mentioned that you expect this to continue for the foreseeable future.
Is the plan in -- or do we since you're there to help influence it do we need like a wholesale restating of the brand at this point? Where do we go with Japan? Thanks.
Keith I think that's a fair question.
If you think of us the unforeseen event over the last let's say six months it's had a significant impact on the consumer perception of the brand in Japan and frankly there were some concerns about the consumer perception of the brand before these incidents and so to your point I think there is an opportunity here and talking with the APMEA leadership and the Japan leadership the recognition that there's kind of a clean sheet of paper approach to take a look at what we're doing with our brand positioning there and how we connect with the consumer so we can improve the trends in our business there overtime.
Next question is from Will Slabaugh of Stephens.
Yeah thanks guys I wondered if you can talk a little bit more about the simplification of the menu and I know you've mentioned that it's happening right now wondered if you could talk about how much further you'd be willing to go assuming you do see some improvement here and if you think there will be much more room to take more off of the menu? And then if you can sort of contrast that with any potential new menu items that you may introduce and where they may fall in terms of premium versus value? Thanks Will.
I think this menu rationalization process is clearly ongoing as we look forward we had a quite a number of products over the last 18 months or so.
So we're rationalizing that looking at clearly what the customers are ordering what they expect to see.
I think moving forward one of the things that we're seeing with Create your Taste obviously that offers unlimited variety to our guest they can use whatever they like so it takes some of the pressure off of lot of the other menu items that we would have on showing on the menu at any given time.
In terms of the overall menu pipeline and what we're looking at today obviously food is a high priority for me personally.
I think that's the foundation of where we're taking the business looking forward and what the expectations of the consumer are.
So we're seeing this localization of what more locally relevant products that are being drawn or pulled from the marketplace as they get into the customer insights.
We're looking at building our culinary talent to support our talented U.S.
chefs.
We're including our supplier team of chefs.
We got some outside consultants who will bring a fresh and forward thinking perspective on our menu vision.
We've got looking at educating America on our food so this conversation about Our Food Your Question giving them facts.
We've seen 20 million hits on YouTube 4.1 billion on Media Impression so that's resonating with our consumers and it's about the quality story.
We have to make sure that our quality aligns with the consumers' definition of quality moving forward.
So we're going to be very aggressive in that area looking at -- we're working with our own operators to revise our product vision for a very different future as led by the consumer from the provenance to the label ingredients to the processes we use to bring the food from farm to table.
We've opportunities to clean up our ingredient list and enhance the taste.
And as you mentioned a lot of innovation going on including Create Your Taste we're evolving on menu in response to a lot of the consumer trends.
We are launching new products at a national level this year and we're complementing that on differentiated products at a local level.
That's a mission allowing the marketplaces to address the specific and the regional taste that exists out there today so a lot of new products news to see in the coming year and news on our food in general.
Next question; Matt DiFrisco of Buckingham Research.
Hi this is Katherine for Matt.
Can you talk about your comparable GAAP between your December same-store sales to the QSR; overall QSR sandwich category? And also the second part of the question is regarding your Create Your Taste.
Can you comment on this any incremental traffic that you're seeing with the customization? Is it adding another level of complexity to the operations; any effect on the speed of service.
Thank you.
Regarding the comp GAAP clearly that is an important metric for us to follow and certainly with high awareness of that in our market places today.
So we're seeing that -- we're confronted with some inflationary pressures at the – they're well-documented.
And I think we kind of lost our focus on the customer relative the values are the comp competition became more aggressive.
So we're seeing that gap start to improve the less negative of course that gap varies by market place.
We have markets that actually have a positive comp GAAP.
So obviously we're learning from the things that are happening in those markets.
But as I mentioned our plans and our tactics in each market they've got multiple layers which include proactive and reactive targeted tactics against specific competitor activity.
Specifically that the GAAP for December was 4.1 negative 4.1.
Relative to Create Your Taste clearly we're seeing positive results.
We have Australia at a point that by year end they will implement nearly 900 restaurants on the platform.
And again it's a much more integrated platform.
It encompasses service it encompasses multiple order points so the kiosk applications mobile applications those things as well as being able still approach the business in a traditional sense from through the front counter or through drive-through.
We are looking at all aspects of how we bring this new food offering and customer choice and customization to all the customers who want to experience McDonald's.
So we're seeing some positives in the market clearly otherwise we would not be implementing this.
I'd tell you that from a service perspective no matter what you implement throughout the years in the McDonald's system initially what you're going to see is a slight service increase or decrease I would say in terms of the effectiveness of us being able to serve any initial month or two.
And then that should come right back and we should be able to be even more efficient.
That is the same thing that we're seeing with Create Your Taste thus far.
So thus far we're very positive on create your taste.
But we're also mindful that we need to do this the right way.
So we're not rushing to try to implement to the U.S.
over one or two year period.
We're looking at the application to make sure that they give the impact that we want from a guest count a sale and an average check perspective which is also a huge aspect as well as the halo around the freshness of our food and all of our problems.
So we're excited about what we see thus far.
But we're also cautious about how we continue to implement this across the year.
All right.
Next question is from Sara Senatore of Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you very much.
Two follow ups; the first is on Create Your Taste and what you're seeing in Australia.
I think one of the differences is certainly for example is France we have had some nice success with some of these initiatives.
Is that the dine-in traffic or the dine-in is a much stronger portion in the U.S.
So I guess the first question is are these kinds of initiatives last relevant in the U.S.
because just to mix of your business so much they goes to the drive-through or even carryout.
And then the second question I wanted to ask is a follow-up on the -- you're trying about improving the quality halo and the providence.
When I look at the competitive set you know what I'd call traditional QSRs there are some that are doing quite well without any of that –- with I think just sort of a core competency around speed and service.
Mike be you could talk about diagnosing that while some of your very direct competitors seems to be doing well even in the absence of fitting in with some of these trends about quality and provenance and the sort of the fast casual direction.
Thanks.
Okay I'll take both parts.
On the first part relative to Create Your Taste in different dynamics or better experience of the future in difference dynamics because what France is doing is not an implementation of Create Your Taste at this point.
They have implemented multiple order points and now you can place an order through the kiosk front counter table counter web ordering etcetera mobile ordering.
And when you look at the table service in France yes there is a strongest queue to end store versus drive-through.
However I will tell you this what we do is look at things like that and we will tailor those based upon the markets that we're implementing it.
We already know that in the U.S.
with the restaurant today implementing Create Your Taste that we're seeing very positive results.
Therefore what we're doing is pulling customers who have a little bit more time and want experience the restaurant inside to come inside the restaurant.
We make tremendous investments in terms of re-imaging and actually we have more customers that are seeing those investments in this environment and would be offering a Create Your Taste.
So they will be modeled for the various markets around the world based upon what is going to appeal the customer the most.
France will not be implementing Create Your Taste that the same taste to say Australia has.
Australia is at a different point with regard to -- say we're bordering them.
France has been.
We'll take -- We will learn from all of those things as we bring this forward.
But nonetheless Create Your Taste; table service in France kiosk applications across Europe all of those things have been successful for and really the experience of the future aspect holds them all together.
And so you know the season variations across the market.
But clearly we'll look at the performance metrics to make sure we move forward effectively.
This is not unlike again McCafé was very different in Australia than it is in the U.S.
yet and still McCafé has worked in both.
On the other side relative to traditional QSR's I'd offer this; no one is really shining that brightly relative to the traditional QSR space.
I think what we're talking about at McDonald's is appealing more to the consumers that are out there that are high-yield customers.
So it's not about a QSR thing or fast casual thing.
It's about this taste in food.
It's about affordability.
It is about transparency as a brand.
It's about a great service experience that gives them a choice.
Those are the things that we're putting in place.
Those are the things that will help us prepare all those business and moving forward.
So we're not gauging ourself by other QSR's as you were.
We're gauging ourselves by the market opportunity and we want to do that.
I would also tell you that as we look forward at the markets around the world each of those markets that we said today is very different and at different places.
So they will be able to bring the experience of the future to light in their market relative to their customer basis.
But we're not skipping over the existing execution of the core products that we have the core menu that we have core service expectation quality service cleanliness those things are important in every single market we have around the world today.
We're out of time.
So I'll turn it over to Don who has a few closing comments.
Let me just make a couple of comments because they came up a couple of times about our franchisee and thoughts about -- someone mentioned something relative to implementation of franchisees and they thought about it.
I have to tell you in the last couple of years as we've said have been difficult but as a global system all of our system has experienced quite a bit and endured many unforeseen changes in the local market.
But at the same time we've charted and began to implement a stronger pathway for future growth.
I couldn't be more proud of the franchisees we have around the world.
They own and operate 81% of our restaurants and without them we would not have been able to endure those things which we have over the last couple of years.
Well there was geopolitical issues some food-related issues our franchisees along with the employees and suppliers have done a tremendous job and it's that strength that is going to propel us forward if that unmentioned strength if you would we don't often talk about when we talk about the financials but it's one of the things that made McDonald's special and it is one of the things that will fuel our growth as we move forward.
I want to thank all of you for joining us on the call today.
2015 as we say will be a year of regaining momentum.
We're making progress as we move even closer to our customers and as we change to be relevant and more progressive modern service genuine hospitality personal engagement more relevant customized menus and a brand that people can trust truly trust this is the McDonald's Experience of the Future.
It is the path that we are forging and I would tell you that the future is already on its way.
Our confidence in our brand and the competitive advantages and strips of our system are truly a reflection of our ability to learn from our past but to also be purposeful and agile in the present and to strategically plan and evolve with changing customers perceptions attitudes and desires as we move into the future.
Thank all of you for attending and participating on the call today and have a great day.
Hello and welcome to McDonald's April 22 2015 investor conference call.
At the request of McDonald's Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today's presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Stent Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald's Corporation.
Mr.
Stent you may begin.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Easterbrook; and Chief Financial Officer Kevin Ozan.
In addition McDonald's Chief Administrative Officer Pete Bensen will join us for Q&amp;A.
Today's conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Steve I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available on www.investor.mcdonalds.com as our reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Steve.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Since stepping into this role maybe two months ago I've been relentlessly focused on assessing current plans challenging our people and teams to think differently about what we're doing and how we're doing it and working with senior leadership to determine the best path forward.
As we announced this morning we have scheduled a separate call on May 4 to share the initial details of our turnaround plan.
We appreciate your patience as we focus today on our first quarter results and the overall approach we are taking as we develop plans to reenergize the business.
First quarter performance reinforces our imperative to stabilize and improve our underlying business performance.
Let me start by sharing an overview of recent performance across the top nine markets that contribute most of our overall consolidated results starting with Australia the U.K.
and Canada which are trending positive.
Australia is in the early stages of turning around its business through a multifaceted approach to enhance brand appeal for consumers.
This includes meaningful enhancements to our menu including both core and new menu items across several categories value platforms and better restaurant operations.
The U.K.
continues its strong track record of positive performance with first quarter comparable sales representing the market's 36 consecutive quarter of growth.
These results reflect the market's diligent execution of its customer-centric plans that span multiple initiatives including food choice and food quality marketing and promotions and enhancements to the service experience such as expanding drive-through capacity during peak periods and building the overnight experience.
In addition in Canada strong promotional performance and new menu news drove average check and positive comparable sales performance for the quarter.
Next are Germany and China two markets that have shown recent signs of improvement.
In Germany negative comparable sales trends have moderated in the last two quarters.
The market has strengthened its value platform and at the same time promoted premium products and add-on purchases to their average check.
We expect recovery in this market to remain uneven however as reflected in March's weak comparable sales performance.
China continues to recover from last year's supplier issue.
Efforts to regain brand trust are working and the market remains on track to return to a normalized level of performance by mid-year.
And finally the U.S.
France Russia and Japan where challenges persist.
U.S.
results remain disappointing.
Recent actions taken by Mike and his leadership team including implementing a more efficient operating structure simplifying the menu and holding the U.S.
Turnaround Summit with operators in March are helping to create a renewed sense of energy and focus around better delivery of local customer needs.
In both France and Russia consumer confidence remains low and challenging macroeconomic conditions continue to negatively impact results.
Despite a declining IEO industry France continues to maintain market share with efforts to strengthen the value platform and enhance the customer service experience on differentiating the brand in the market.
Amidst the external pressures in Russia the team remains focused on driving sales through strong product and promotional offers growing the breakfast business and initiatives that focus on rebuilding brand trust with consumers in the market.
Japan's recovery from the supply issue has not been as strong as China and subsequent consumer perception issues have further depressed sales and profitability.
As evidenced by last week's announcement of the business revitalization plan the Japanese and APMEA teams are intensely focused on addressing the significant challenges in this market though we expect results will continue to be negatively impacted for the foreseeable future.
And Kevin will provide more details around our first quarter results in a moment.
Let me shift gears now and discuss the approach I am taking to lead McDonald's into the future.
My operating principles if you will.
First is a greater emphasis on personal accountability.
I am honest and fair if I don't dispense forced kindness.
Where we need to fix the fundamentals we need to act now; and where we need to make an impact I'm not looking for incremental steps.
We intend to make meaningful impact with customers and how they perceive our brand and our food.
I hold people accountable for tangible actions and outputs and I can assure you that I hold myself accountable to these same high standards.
My second operating principle is grounded in the customer.
As a retail business we must be even more customer-centric.
This means deeper understanding better listening better segmentation genuine sharp insights regarding what our customers want and need and when they want it as determined from the smart use of data and analytics.
We need to be the best at knowing what matters most to consumers and we will focus our best talent and prioritize spending where it will optimally support our turnaround.
My third philosophy is progress over perfection.
We will try new things move fast with what works and even faster from what doesn't.
And when we find winning plays we'll be more nimble much like we did with the rollout of Apple Pay this last fall from first contact to going live to 12 weeks.
We can make meaningful changes for customers in weeks.
We just have to do it more often.
My final approach to leading is I champion simplicity.
We are simplifying for greater transparency accountability and speed.
We are making the business more responsive to market conditions while using our scale advantage more effectively.
We cannot afford to carry legacy attitudes and legacy thinking and we won't.
My overall vision is for McDonald's to be seen as a modern progressive burger company delivering a contemporary customer experience.
Modern is about getting the brand to where we need to be today and progressive is about doing what it takes to be the McDonald's our customers will expect tomorrow.
We are already moving more assertively in this direction with actions that delight our customers and energize our brand.
For example we recently committed to enhance the benefits to employees at company-owned restaurants in the U.S.
including a wage increase and paid time off for full and part-time for employees.
In March we announced in the U.S.
that we will stop using antibiotics that are important to human medicines and are checking supply chain within the next two years.
And there are plans to feature 100% sirloin burgers for a limited time in the U.S.
along with a current test on all-day breakfast.
We also undertook a significant effort to excite our customers and bring the world together virtually with I'm Lovin It 24.
About 70 000 people participated in the event which included 24 hours of McDonald's inspired disruptive creativity in major cities around the world.
And it garnered more than 2 billion impressions across public relations stories and social media interactions.
Last month the German team opened a new 500-seat flagship restaurant in Frankfurt showcasing our most modern digital and service amenities.
And just yesterday we announced our global commitment on deforestation which confirms our aspiration to end deforestation throughout our supply chain.
We are harvesting the power inherent in the McDonald's brand and in our network of valued franchisees employees and supplier partners to make this great brand even greater.
One of the advantages of my broad experience within McDonald's and running other restaurant chains is seeing other cultures different structures different models.
Through this experience I see McDonald's and its fundamental advantages challenges and opportunities much more clearly.
It is this perspective that is helping me look objectively in the business and make decision to position McDonald's to deliver enduring profitable growth for shareholders and the system.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Kevin.
Thanks Steve and hello everyone.
We begin 2015 taking action to lay the foundation for McDonald's turnaround as we work to address the significant internal and external headwinds that are impacting our business.
Today I'd like to begin by discussing the performance factors that impacted our first quarter results including the strategic charges taken in the quarter.
Then I'll provide updates on key financial metrics and close with some final thoughts about our path to realizing our long-term potential.
Our financial model and therefore my remarks start with topline sales.
First quarter comparable sales were down 2.3% reflecting negative guest traffic across all of our geographic segments.
APMEA's first quarter comp sales decline of 8.3% had the largest impact on our global performance with Japan and China posting declines of 32.3% and 4.8% respectively.
While these results are partly due to the lingering impact of the APMEA supplier issue Japan's performance reflects the broad-based consumer perception challenges that the market is working to overcome.
Japan accounts for the lion's share of this segment's quarterly comparable sales decline.
Sales trends in China continue to show sequential improvement as we moved through the quarter.
And Australia remains a bright spot posting its third consecutive quarter of positive comparable sales.
In the U.S.
comparable sales were down 2.6% for the quarter as the segment's slightly positive breakfast dayparts was offset by weakness across all other dayparts.
We are working to enhance the customer experience with locally relevant taste a simplified menu and compelling value offerings.
Europe comparable sales ended the quarter down 0.6% with positive performance in the UK more than offset by weak results in France and Russia.
Looking ahead to April global comparable sales are expected to be negative.
This weak topline performance accounted for about half of the constant currency decline in operating income for the first quarter.
The other half of the decline in operating income is attributable to the $195 million of strategic charges taken in the quarter to optimize the business.
The first component of the charges totaling $85 million includes asset write-offs related to our refranchising initiative as we made decisions to sell certain restaurants to developmental licensees.
The next component of these charges is related to the strategic decisions to close about 350 underperforming restaurants primarily in Japan the U.S.
and China.
These restaurant closings are in addition to the 350 global restaurant closings originally planned for 2015.
The total charge for asset write-offs related to these incremental closings was approximately $72 million.
Most of these restaurants were not contributing to our overall profitability or cash flow and we will continue to review our restaurant portfolio with the intent of optimizing our asset base around the world.
The final component of the charges was $38 million related to restructuring costs for our U.S.
business.
This amount consist primarily of employee severance and other related costs.
Earnings per share for the quarter was down $0.37 which include $0.17 related to the strategic charges and $0.09 in negative foreign currency impact.
Excluding the impact of the charges and foreign currency translation earnings per share for the quarter was down $0.11 or 9%.
From an operating perspective with 81% of our global restaurants franchised the largest driver of operating income continues to be our franchise margins which declined $152 million to $1.6 billion a 1% decrease in constant currencies.
Global company-operated margin dollars declined $164 million to $560 million for the quarter a 13% decrease in constant currencies.
The company-operated margin percent decreased 180 basis points to 14.3% reflecting negative comparable guest counts across all segments as well as higher commodity and labor costs.
Next I want to provide an update on our commodities pricing foreign currency impact and cash returned to shareholders.
I'll start with commodity cost for the U.S.
and Europe.
For the first quarter U.S.
commodity cost rose approximately 2% primarily due to higher beef prices.
To help offset this pressure we took some price increases.
Our first quarter pricing in the U.S.
year-over-year was up roughly 2% which was below food-away-from-home inflation of around 3%.
The current projected increase in food-away-from-home inflation for the full year is 2% to 3%.
Excluding currency Europe's commodity cost were relatively flat in the first quarter.
Our pricing increases in Europe varied by market with the overall segment excluding Russia averaging about 2% year-over-year.
Now turning to foreign currency impact.
The U.S.
dollar has strengthened dramatically against nearly all of the world's other major currencies.
During the last eight months the dollar has experienced its fastest rise in 40 years.
At these levels foreign currency translation is having a significant impact on our reported results as evidenced by the $700 million impact to our first quarter reported revenues and the $0.09 impact to our first quarter reported EPS.
Based on current exchange rates we now expect foreign currency translation to negatively impact our results by $0.13 to $0.14 in the second quarter and $0.40 to $0.45 for the full year.
As usual take this as directional guidance only because rates will change as we move throughout the year.
And keep in mind this is an accounting translation impact more than a cash impact.
Despite our topline and margin pressures our business continues to generate significant cash flow.
In addition to reinvesting in the business to drive future growth we returned $1.4 billion to our shareholders in dividends and share repurchases in the first quarter.
As Steve mentioned we're taking a close look at our organization challenging ourselves and the status quo.
Our goal is to position the company for enduring profitable growth.
We must get back to better leveraging the benefits of our business model including the entrepreneurial spirit of our franchisees.
We must utilize our considerable resources more efficiently and we must meet our customers' evolving needs more consistently.
I am energized by the challenges before us and I look forward to working with Steve Pete and the broader McDonald's system to bring our vision to reality.
Thank you.
Now I'll turn it back to Chris to begin our Q&amp;A.
Thanks Kevin.
Before we begin Q&amp;A I want to make a comment about our financial outlook for the full year 2015.
As you know each quarter we provide details around our expectations for several key components influencing annual earnings per share.
In light of the upcoming announcement of McDonald's turnaround plan it was not appropriate to update our outlook in management's prepared remarks or as part of today's 8-K filing.
An update on our outlook will be provided in conjunction with the announcement of our plans on May 4 2015.
We will now open the call for analyst and investor questions.
[Operator Instructions] To give as many people as possible the opportunity to ask questions please limit yourself to one question.
We'll come back to you for follow-up questions as time allows.
The first question is from Brian Bittner of Oppenheimer.
A question on the U.S.
business.
In the U.S.
I've heard a lot over the last few months about the need for more simplicity needing to improve speed which I think suggests a diagnosis of a throughput problem.
But when you look at the underperformance in the comps versus the industry and on an absolute basis it does suggest a bigger more pure demand issue.
And so the question is what's going to be going on over the next couple months to really drive a resurgence in guest counts that maybe more dramatic than simplification? I guess like are the extended breakfast tests going well? What's the plan there? As far as new products being rolled out more rapidly like you guys just did the chicken sandwich is that something we're going to see more of? If you could just kind of talk about that altogether that will be great.
You're absolutely right.
There is no one single solution to getting any of our businesses moving.
We have strong plans in place.
And I guess if I can dissect that question of yours; one is how we're going to drive demand? And then secondly how we're going to manage that demand? The driving demand is going to be driven through both national and local menu news.
So we have some strong and some exciting product pipelines ahead.
So most recently we've announced the sirloin burger which we believe will be a favorite with customers and have broad resonance.
But also we are liberating the creativity and I guess the insights of our local markets to develop local food menu items that better resonate with the local customer base.
So the demand driving I believe can operate at two levels.
That said and done we've still got to make the entire McDonald's experience just a little easier for our customers and a little easier for our crew and that's where the simplification piece comes in.
And it's not simply the menu simplification it's what else can we take off the workload of our teams in the restaurants to enable them to focus on what really matters which is taking care of customers.
So menu simplification will certainly help.
There has been the initial phase of that from January where we have not seen a significant sales uplift from it but we have seen it provide us with easing of operational complexity.
There will be further moves on menu simplification coming up now because we have a number of tests in place and we can share those with you as the results become clearer.
But also there is other things we can do to take workload out of the restaurant and just simplify the job of our managers and crews so they can focus on their frontline role which is taking care of customers.
So two things driving demand and then meeting demand and we've got actions on both.
Next question is from Andrew Charles of Cowen and Company.
Kevin to put the U.S.
and China restaurant closures in perspective what's the base of company restaurants that are currently cash flow negative? And should we expect these closures to be the first wave and what could be future closures as well? The restaurants that we closed that we're announcing that we're closing right now were all certainly underperforming not adding significantly to profitability and cash flow.
We don't expect a lot more throughout the rest of this year.
So you shouldn't expect to see a lot more happen through the rest of the year related to additional closures.
There may be some little charges that I'll say come in through the next couple of quarters some related to incurring costs as we actually close the restaurants and there may be a few additional restaurants.
But you shouldn't expect a lot more significant closings certainly nothing to the magnitude of the first quarter.
Next question is from Joe Buckley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Maybe a couple of follow-ups on that and if you guys defer this to May 4 I understand but there was no mention of expansion in 2015.
Are the old expansion plans kind of still in place so net-net there would still be some increase in restaurants? And then somewhat related question I guess.
The $85 million charge from the prior or already previously disclosed refranchising plans is that coming because you decided to do those on a developmental licensing basis? And if so maybe talk about that change in thought of if in fact it was a change.
First related to expansion.
You saw we took everything out from the outlook.
Obviously we're still opening restaurants but we'll update all the kind of outlook pieces including expansion on the call on May 4.
Related to the charges a couple things.
So we referred to one of the pieces of the charge as cost related to write-offs as we made decisions to sell restaurants to developmental licensees.
That'd be consistent with our past practice as we make decisions to sell whether its restaurants or countries to somebody.
We need to look and see how it's valued and what we believe we can get in return for selling those restaurants.
And as we make a decision and evaluate kind of the fair value versus what we have recorded on our books it requires us to potentially write down the net book value to get to the cost of the selling price we're going to realize.
That's what those amounts relate to.
It will be consistent with prior practice.
We made some decisions to actually sell some restaurants to developmental licensees and we need to now record the cost of it.
It equals what we expect to realize when we sell those restaurants.
Next question is from Jeff Bernstein of Barclays.
Steve just a question on franchise relations or maybe the health of the franchisees however you want to look at it.
But it's obviously difficult for us looking in from the outside.
On one hand it would seem like your franchisees are probably among the most successful in quick service whether it's from sales or a profit standpoint.
But at the same time I can't imagine the recent weakness doesn't drive some frustration.
So I'm just wondering with that kind of as background backdrop I mean what's the greatest pushback or perhaps just maybe suggestions you hear from franchisees in terms of turning around at least the U.S.
business? That would be one thing because I'm guessing they have some pretty good insights.
And secondly do you typically discuss the initiatives and plans for the system with them ahead of time? For example like the turnaround presentation in early May do they get kind of advanced look or do they opine on the initiatives that you plan on putting out there? So the overall brand relationship is absolutely fundamental to the ongoing strength.
It has been for 60 years and certainly I want to continue that and champion that.
When business is a little tougher like it is at the moment in the U.S.
with cash flows being challenged yes frustrations do arise as you would expect.
The wonderful thing about the relationship we have with the operators is that there's a really open dialogue.
Their views and our views we share openly as we build these plans together.
And I don't think that will change.
As you go through turnarounds I'm going to tell you from my experience in the past in other markets they are a little bumpy by nature.
It isn't just a straight line growth curve.
And it does require some bold and decisive decision-making which on occasions could lead to one or two friction points.
And there's one or two things we can learn from one or two decisions we've made but it doesn't mean the decisions we are making are wrong far from it.
I am confident in the decisions that Mike's making for the U.S.
and I am making at a global level.
And the ultimate objective from this clearly is as you know with our business model of the three-legged stool is that our supply partners our owner/operators in the company succeed together.
And I would love that to be an operator-led success as well.
Nothing would thrill me more.
With regards to what we are looking towards on May 4 we have a number of measures we'll talk to some of which clearly you won't expect me to talk to now.
Some of which will be we're going to share some broader operating plans at the markets with a broader audience.
So some of the work is going on in the markets as we speak; there will be other elements that we will save for May 4 to share with all audiences at the same time.
Next question is from Keith Siegner of UBS.
Steve if I could circle back to some of your original points earlier about driving demand and ways to driving demand you talked about the product.
But another increasingly important area is the digital engagement tool.
Just wondering if you could give us an update on the launch of a mobile app maybe some of the details of what functionality you might include in the launch? And then is there going to be this roll of subsequent updates and increased functionality? How do we think about adding in this tool to the driving demand aspect to the equation? It is a great question Keith.
It's something we are excited about here I have got to say.
As you probably know in my previous role I was responsible for trying to establish our digital team and division here and that we've built a highly skilled and capable group of managing that for us.
We are moving without a doubt from a world of mass marketing to one I describe as mass personalization.
And clearly technology allows us to do that now which allows us to build a much more meaningful relationship with our customers to shift from a transactional relationship into a far more engaging and meaningful purposeful relationship where we can understand their needs on individual basis rather than a generic basis.
We are building what we're calling our global mobile app.
We will be launching it in the U.S.
in the second half of this year.
And there are two elements to our digital vision.
One is the experience side and the other is the engagement side.
The experience is how can we use technology just to make the day-to-day customer experience easier and more convenient.
And the engagement side is really more about the fun part of the brand.
So the initial app that we'll be launching will be focusing primarily on the experience just trying to make the day-to-day customer experience smoother and more convenient.
And then future iterations which are already building up the pipeline I have got to say will further enhance that experience and introduce more elements of fun to it.
So I would not really be -- personally we are not building in a sales build in relation to this for 2015 but we do see it as being a business driver as we look out.
Next question is from Jeff Farmer of Wells Fargo.
In past 10-K filings you have disclosed it looks like that the annual cost to support a typical company-owned U.S.
restaurant was about $50 000.
I am curious if that number is still accurate.
And just as a quick follow-up on that May 4 date I am just curious how did you come to determine that that was an appropriate date to share the turnaround plan details? Well I can take the second one.
So the date was -- clearly this is my seventh week now in position alongside Kevin as well.
And you can imagine we have been working pretty hard on this.
It wasn't a standing start.
We both have our histories we brought into our current positions.
May 4 is an important opportunity for us partly because -- so we are moving flat-out to build the meaningful plans that are merit sharing with you.
Also that week we have our leaders from around the world in here as well.
And is a great opportunity to share it with them at the same time we share it with the broader audiences.
So that date just sits comfortably in the cadence of action that we're building here.
And then regarding your question on kind of G&amp;A per restaurant in the U.S.
we have said it's about $45 000 per restaurant.
Internationally it varies by market but it's generally in that $45 000 to $50 000 ballpark.
Next question is from John Glass of Morgan Stanley.
Steve to the extent if you're willing to talk about it today when you think about your turnaround plan do you think about them focusing more on the operating part of the business or is it more of a financial restructuring or how do you weight those two in importance in your mind? If you're not willing or less willing to talk about that now I also wonder about how your own turnaround experiences maybe it's the U.K.
or some other business you have been involved with.
What are the important elements in those turnarounds? And are those applicable to this situation or is this very different in your mind? Absolutely unequivocally this is around driving operating growth in our operating business.
Simply put we want to sell more hamburgers to more customers more often around the world.
So this is going to be a growth-led turnaround.
There are things we can do to help that.
And probably to your second point and just from personal experience back in the U.K.
there were certain things we can do as management and as leaders in this business to help us run a more effective operating business.
So the sort of things that I have been looking at is around our organizational structure around our ownership mix about how we can get that drive in the restaurants most effectively and about how we best use our resources.
And you may have heard me say before any leader in any business there are typically three resources that we have at our disposal.
There is human resource; there is financial resource; and there is time.
So we're challenging ourselves to how we can most effectively use those three resources to prioritize them behind the areas they're going to deliver the greatest return and the greatest growth in this turnaround.
Next question David Palmer from RBC.
Steve just a question on premium and value.
On the value side particularly as you focus on the U.S.
how confident are you that regional value marketing is going to be the way going forward? And how confident are you that this will be effective enough to replace what the Dollar Menu did for McDonald's over a decade? And on the quality side I know this is a journey which you are embarking upon and you are seeing a little bit in the second quarter but how good is good enough? For instance one would have no doubt that if you had a chicken sandwich as good as Chick-fil-A that that would sell well.
But I'm just trying to get a sense of your commitment and how you're benchmarking and where your goals are on quality.
So on the value piece I would say regional clearly has a part to play but they need to balance.
And although that Mike and the U.S.
team are working on that balance between getting national-driven value where we can use our scale and that economy of scale on a national level along with freeing up the regions to really identify the menu items that matter most in their geography given maybe their climates and given affordability issues.
It very very much differs region by region.
So there will be a balance to play on value.
We haven't quite found that equation yet.
But we have been working hard to unlock it.
In terms of quality our benchmark is ourselves.
What we are working on now and what Mike and the menu team is working on is how could we deliver a better McDonald's menu? So we are very proud of our core products.
What can we do to enhance the quality both direct quality and also the quality perception as we develop new items.
Again our benchmark is ourselves.
And our customers are guiding us on that.
So we believe if we can bring great quality products at the value of McDonald's that is the equation that will drive growth.
Next question is from Karen Holthouse of Goldman Sachs.
So looking at a number of initiatives whether it's on the improving sort of employee benefits and wages or improving the quality of products theoretically there would be a cost associated with most of these.
And how do we think about it from a high level versus the plan to absorb those costs versus push that onto the consumer through pricing in the company system? And then as these cost pressures on ingredient side would float to franchises and then wages there could be some over effects for McDonald's.
And then other larger players who are making similar moves just helping them manage through that without necessarily passing all of it on.
The minimum wage cost as well as all other costs certainly impact how we look at pricing how we look at our margins.
We have talked about with the minimum wage that it will impact our margins in the near term.
But there is a lot of benefits to it and that it will be able to enhance our competitiveness in the marketplace.
Our thought is that our turnover will decrease.
We'll be able to attract and retain the best employees.
So while there's a near-term cost to some of those we also look at the benefits.
And the market will help dictate to us what kind of pricing we're able to get related to some of those costs.
But we look at a lot of this as what do we need to do to make sure that we have got the business set up to be able to drive top line sales.
And those are some of the pieces.
Just one piece to add to that as well is I talked about simplicity and simplification.
Complexity typically adds costs in one way shape or form as well.
So I know Mike and the team are working hard to try and strip either the non-value-added activity out of the restaurants or make cuts as far away from the consumer as possible just to free up a little bit of room on the P&amp;L so we can mitigate one or two of the inherent inflationary costs that we face.
Next question is from Sara Senatore of Sanford Bernstein.
One little detail and then I guess a bigger question.
The detail is I may have missed it but could you give us the China comp? And then the bigger question is just going back to the store closures can you give us a sense were they more likely to come from later cohorts as stores as in is there some evidence that maybe the store growth that we've seen over the last couple of years probably may have led to a point of kind of over saturation? I guess in general when I look at turnarounds in this industry they usually do include a fairly significant amount of asset rationalization.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of the sort of growth rate going forward that you would expect to see and how you think about the stores? Maybe some of the more recent development decisions were not ideal? Regarding China's comp for the quarter it was negative 4.8%.
So that's the China question.
The other regarding kind of optimizing assets what I would tell you is we've been reviewing our restaurant portfolio around the world to ensure that we're set up to grow successfully in the future.
So that review resulted in these decisions to close the 350 underperforming restaurants primarily in Japan U.S.
and China.
In China a lot of those openings were I'll say between 2009 and 2012 where they have been consistently underperforming.
Our sales estimation processes probably weren't as great during those years but we now have better tools and a better processes so that our sales estimation processes have been better.
Japan they are generally heavy loss-maker restaurants that we're closing so that will help the portfolio.
And we're pretty much complete with that review.
Like I said before there may be some limited additional closures.
There may be some limited additional charges.
But the magnitude of any additional charges will not be anything close to what we have got in the first quarter.
Next question is from Will Slabaugh Stephens.
Just a question around the menu globally and maybe even more applicable here in the U.S.
Can you talk about the balance of launching new items that are enticing and different enough to actually drive new people or maybe lapsed guests into your restaurants that's been lacking a little bit in the past number of years versus your plan to simplify the menu? So I think there is probably three elements to this actually Will.
So one is our core menu which is still our fundamental engine of growth.
These are $1 billion brands.
A handful of products are $1 billion brands right and are much loved so we are working hard to reinvigorate the consumers' love and demand for that.
On the new items two elements some is launching permanent new items and some is just using LTOs.
Again they both play a different role.
You can only absorb so many new permanent items because then that's -- clearly they demand a permanent place on menu boards.
And that does can typically add up additional complexity.
LTO can provide some funds.
So you're talking four five six-week promotional activity around themes a bit.
It could be around World Cup soccer.
It could be around the Olympics.
It could be around the time of year and the seasonal events.
That just makes yourself interesting.
That rewards existing customers who may want to try something different for little while and then return to their favorites.
So that's always a balance because you're part of what we're working on with our marketing leads certainly in the major markets is to understand how that best balance works.
If we lurch too far one way and streamline it we don't have enough new and enticing news out there.
If we go the other way it becomes a little frenetic and customers can't follow and the restaurants find it hard to execute.
But there is not a science to this but all very important but primarily core meaningful new menu additions and then introducing some fun on occasion through LTOs just to spice up the market a little bit.
Next question is from Jason West of Credit Suisse.
Going back to Jeff Farmer's question about the timing of the meeting I guess it felt like you guys are going to spend a little bit more time Steve since you haven't been there very long to kind of get the plan together based on some of your comments at the New York meeting.
So I guess can you talk about is the meeting on May 4 meant to present the comprehensive sort of final plan that you have come up with or is this more sort of a first look at some of the things that you are working on and that you will build from there? Can you help frame that a bit? Yes.
On the call we will be sharing the initial details of the turnaround plan.
Clearly I don't want to say too much about it because that's the reason we are having the call on May 4.
We have selected that date because we believe those initial plans will be well enough baked out that it will be meaningful news to all the audiences that have an interest in what we're doing at McDonald's.
Next question is from Andy Barish of Jefferies.
Just one I guess quick follow-up and then a financial question.
On the product news Steve do you think the brand has in the research you're looking at or doing do you think the brand has credibility on the premium side? I mean there have been some efforts obviously with most recently reintroducing chicken tenders in the past on premium burgers and wings that haven't really worked.
So I guess what's the current thinking on that? And then the financial question for Kevin was you referenced higher lease costs and the franchise margin decline.
Is there something going on with rent escalations or something above average I just don't recall seeing that historically in your explanation.
For premium quality I mean I often describe because it's possibly the most democratic with a small d brand in the world.
And what customers love the world over and none more so than here in the U.S.
is how they can buy into aspirational quality products but at a McDonald's price.
They don't have to pay over the odds for it.
And when we were on our game and we have all elements of our business working well our service experience our digital engagement the cost account quality and new food news then all those components really do add value to the customer experience and their perception their assessment of us.
So yes there is room for it.
We have to be competitive in the marketplace but we can bring great quality.
So for example removing the antibiotics out of our chicken supply chain across the next two years is a move that customers value because we can bring to them quality ingredients and quality menu items at the McDonald's affordable prices.
And they encourage us to do more of that.
And we will continue particularly here in the U.S.
as Mike brings to life the food agenda that he has his part of his vision for the business we will continue to make moves such as that to bring premium quality food at everyday prices.
And again the sirloin burger is a great example of that.
It's a premium beef cut at McDonald's prices and looking forward to customers' response to that.
And then Andy related to the lease costs to your point we normally have rent escalation so it's not necessarily anything new.
Some of it is escalation.
But more of it really relates to sales.
We've talked about before it's a topline game so negative comp sales clearly put pressure on our margins.
And when we don't have that sales leverage that's significantly impacts margins.
So that's really the bigger impact.
Next question is from Matt DiFrisco of Guggenheim.
I think what stuck out to me also was a couple of the growth year markets where you're opening a lot of stores also seem to be some of the weaker comp stories this year.
I understand it's a long-term plan some of those openings.
But is that somewhat of a foreshadowing I guess for 2016 perhaps the lower comp environment that we're in now? Should it be presumed that we are going to probably see a little bit more pragmatic and slower development in those markets in response especially from the franchise community more so or the emerging franchise community in China does that disrupt it at all? Yes there is really no correlation between looking at the store growth numbers in the release and the comp sales.
We have acknowledged in some of the major markets we've got some turnaround activity to undertake.
And we are undertaking those obviously with the belief and the confidence that there is long-term growth potential in those markets.
And restaurant development is not something that we kind of turn on and turn off with a switch because there is a pipeline involved.
There is some permitting to restaurant opening.
It's a several month to multi-year process depending on the country.
So you shouldn't be drawing any correlation between those two and as we'll be able to talk about it in a little more detail on May 4 the efforts around turning the topline in the business are of utmost focus especially in those markets where comps are weakest.
Next question is from John Ivankoe of JPMorgan.
Just the two part question if I may.
Steve as you've kind of seen all the research that McDonald's has had was there maybe one or two big things that consumers were telling you about three to four years ago that you needed to change and you could have kind of prevented the decline in the sales? And I ask this question really in the context of what were those preventable factors if you will and is the organization kind of in a place where it can act on some of that right research? And secondly if I may which I guess is a little bit unrelated there has been at least some illusion that there could be separate expressions of the McDonald's brand through the drive-through and the in-store experience at least in the U.S.
And Create Your Taste is certainly maybe moving in that direction but if you could give us some light in terms of how some of the drive-through optimization tests are going around the U.S.? So looking back three to four years rather than anything we missed through consumer insight I think perhaps the challenge we let ourselves with we had four or five growth initiatives working together really through the 2000s so from '03 to about 2010 2011 we had a number of different growth platforms that worked.
And they worked around the world.
Different markets sequence them in different orders but everything from delivering great quality coffee which then drove breakfast business going to extended hours the re-imaging program for example just to name three.
Perhaps what we didn't foresee and responded as well as we could have done ourselves is to create that future pipeline and growth platforms.
Now sometimes the consumer will guide you there but sometimes you've got to take that into your own hands.
And that was probably perhaps something that as we look back through our history we wish we could have done a little better.
The one trend I would say we're working hard to address now is general consumer desires to be part of something big but to be treated as an individual.
And that's where the whole personalization piece comes in.
Whether that's the way we engage and communicate with customers which is I believe technology will help us get there where we'd have a much more personal relationship at a level that customers are happy with.
But also on the menu side and that's where the customization of food comes in.
And then on to your second point on Create Your Taste one of the beauties we have here is we have an ability to test these things out and learn.
So Create Your Taste for example is an option within our broader McDonald's experience in the future ambition.
We have a really concerted push on this in Australia and we will have one or two markets up and running within the U.S.
And we will respond we will be able to see from consumers' response to that pretty quickly how that in-store experience builds out and plays out.
And then again relating to your second point how that then works through the drive-through and time will tell but we have a number of other ways that we can perhaps customize our menu or personalize our menu that we're also are working on.
So we have test sales going on around the country and around the world to better learn how we can best meet that consumer need is around personalization.
It is powerful.
We believe we can deliver against it.
And our confidence is when we start to really connect on that level and unlock the benefits of personalization to 69 million customers a day that will have a significant impact and drive long-term sustaining growth.
Next question is from Nicole Miller Regan of Piper Jaffray.
I just wanted to ask about the early stages of the efforts to drive results to restructuring of the field level operations.
I think that's something that was done in the U.S.
I don't know a quarter or two ago.
And I believe that was maybe doing it by region or better matching up the corporate with the local consumer preference.
Could you just let us know what you're hearing from the field level operations please? Yes so Mike made a very deliberate move at the backend of last year to announce a streamlining of the organization structure.
I mean over time the structures can build up.
And really he took a very concerted view of that.
Really took out one level one layer between corporate and then the regions and these were 22 regions around the U.S.
What that has done it is ask for a different role of performance out of our general managers and our operator leaders in the regions and a different way of engaging and a speed of decision making in the center.
So as the teams are embedding with these new accountabilities and new responsibilities we were in that transition stage.
I don't think we've got everything humming perfectly right now but nor would I expect us to.
It's a significant change for the organization.
It's absolutely the right one to have made and has my full support.
And we want to shorten the time period to get superb execution of the new roles and responsibilities in that structure.
The last question is from David Tarantino of Robert W.
Baird.
Steve just a high-level question about your vision.
I think you mentioned that you wanted to remove some of the legacy thinking and change the mindset of the organization.
I was wondering if maybe you could share some examples of some of the legacy thinking that needs to be changed.
And then maybe secondly based on the seven weeks or so you've been in the job maybe talk a little bit about how ready you think the organization or the system is to embrace some of that change in thinking? That's a nice soft one to end with David.
Thank you.
Right.
So when I talk about legacy thinking and legacy attitude I mean we have been phenomenally successful for 60 years.
And there's so many good reasons for that.
And there is much of that I would not ever wish to change or challenge.
It's very precious to us and will stand as in good stead for the next 60 years.
However there's a certain conservatism and incrementalism that builds into that.
And again as a company that has not necessarily been a bad thing.
But when you do need to make a step change our organization doesn't naturally go there.
It needs to be led there.
And in my experience at McDonald's whenever we've made substantial decisions and substantial changes we are wonderfully adaptable once that has been spelled out.
But we won't naturally take ourselves there as an organization.
So with the team around me we're challenging some of the conventional thinking on multiple fronts and some of that we'll be able to share you over time.
With regards to whether the seven weeks will get people into a state of readiness I think there's a hunger and an interest in our business to embrace change.
So I mean I hear it as I get into the markets hear it from younger operators and I think there is a pull and a hunger in the field for what are we going to stand for where we're heading and how are we going to get there.
And I am not new to most of the McDonald's system.
I am new in position.
I totally recognize that.
And different expectations and accountabilities come with that but I think my track record and my history in McDonald's is relatively well known around the place.
And therefore I don't come as a complete surprise.
So I look forward to sharing more on May 4 and ongoing.
We're nearing the top of the hour so I will turn it over to Steve who has a few closing comments.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you Chris.
Again thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
In closing I want to reemphasize our commitment to reenergizing the business on moving more quickly and assertively to meet the demands and the needs for our more than 69 million customers every day around the world.
I am confident in our ability to make the right move to reset McDonald's as a modern progressive burger company that provides a contemporary experience for our guests.
We will keep driving towards this vision as we build the business and brand and deliver long-term value for customers and shareholders.
I look forward to sharing the initial details of our turnaround plan with you on May 4.
Thanks again to you all.
And have a great day.
Hello and welcome to McDonald’s July 23 2015 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald’s Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today’s presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Stent Vice President of Investor Relations for McDonald’s Corporation.
Mr.
Stent you may begin.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Easterbrook and Chief Financial Officer Kevin Ozan.
Today’s conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by phone webcast and podcast.
Before I turn it over to Steve I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also applies to our comments.
Both documents are available on www.investor.mcdonalds.com as our reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today’s call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
And now I would like to turn it over to Steve.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
In May I shared the initial steps we are taking to fundamentally reset McDonald’s business and reassert our leadership.
Today I will share the progress we have made since then.
Our turnaround plan represents a significant step change in McDonald’s and establishes the foundation for our transformation as we work toward becoming a modern progressive burger company.
Our number one priority is to return critical markets to sustainable growth by regaining customers’ trust and loyalty.
These efforts must be led by the markets local management and franchisees working together to deliver what people want from McDonald’s great tasting quality food at a value delivered with a better service each and every time they visit.
Our focus over the last several months has been execution transformation and challenging the organization to evolve more quickly taking bold steps to change the way we think and operate starting first with our structure.
We made a fundamental shift in a way our business is organized effective July 1 to eliminate redundancies maximize talent and create a greater sense of urgency amongst companies and operator leadership staff as well as with our suppliers.
This restructure arguably represents the biggest organizational change in our history yet from inception to execution we completed it in just two months.
It requires significant change inside the company.
And we are already realizing some of the benefits stronger discipline sharper customer focus a more acute sense of urgency and a deeper understanding of what legacy thinking and actions to challenge and how.
For example market teams in Australia and Hong Kong have recognized and acted upon the needs of a greater choice in personalization with our hallmark product burgers.
We are aggressively deploying elements of experience in the future and seeing encouraging results.
And in Germany our brand re-launch highlighting new taste and a better overall restaurant experience is giving customers reasons to think differently about McDonald’s.
We have also recruited fresh outside perspectives as part of this restructure.
Our new Chief Communications Officer Robert Gibbs and Chief Marketing Officer Silvia Lagnado are highly respected talented leaders who will bring a wealth of experience and outside perspective.
In the next several months we are about taking further action and reasserting our leadership.
We must operate better restaurants.
That’s why we are recommitting to operations excellence which frankly has been lacking in some markets.
Simply speaking we need to be better at serving hot fresh food providing fast and friendly service in a contemporary restaurant at the value of McDonald’s.
Today I will highlight the steps we are taking and the progress we have made.
While financial results remained disappointing in the second quarter we are seeing early signs of momentum.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect positive global comparable sales led by growth in our newly created international lead market segment and China’s continuing recovery in the 2014 APMEA supplier issue.
Before we turn to the U.S.
let me briefly highlight the progress we are making in some of our most significant markets around the world.
I am energized that the actions our markets are taking and the impact they have on results.
As we translate our progress into the context of our new organizational structure I can say with confidence that the international lead market segments which represents approximately 40% of our business is moving in the right direction.
Australia Canada and the UK continued to deliver strong performance.
Germany is starting to turn and France is gaining share despite the challenging headwinds.
This segment will be a strong catalyst for our business.
Let’s start with Australia where June marks 10 consecutive months of positive comparable sales and guest counts.
The business has turned in Australia and the market is focused on sustaining positive performance.
The combined solutions deployed last year such as re-launching everyday value with the loose change menu and offering customers Barista crafted McCafé beverages in the drive-through established the foundation and Australia has successfully layered on incremental initiatives to sustain that growth.
Value breakfast was introduced early this year and we began national advertising for Create Your Taste customized burgers as part of our efforts to develop the customer experience in the future.
The UK also continues to grow with 37 consecutive quarters of positive comparable sales performance.
Multiple initiatives contributed to growth and market share gains across all dayparts.
For example we gave customers more reasons to visit our restaurants by featuring premium products such as the Chicken Legend and Big Tasty and through effective marketing and promotional efforts including Monopoly.
Strong growth in breakfast was fueled by the market’s first ever promotional breakfast item the sausage and bacon sandwich.
And the team is improving the service experience by aggressively deploying Experience of the Future.
150 restaurants we converted so far and plans were in place to double that number by the end of 2015.
Let’s now shift to Canada where positive comparable sales performance continues.
The team is driving growth by focusing on convenience including the ongoing rollout of dual-lane drive-throughs which improve the speed of service for customers particularly during our busiest times.
The market is also benefiting from strong breakfast growth building up on a successful free coffee offer earlier this year along with additional enhancements to the core menu including new salads.
We are also seeing signs of progress in Germany.
This was the market’s first quarter of positive comparable sales since the second quarter 2012.
Customers are responding to the steps we have taken to improve the taste and variety of core and premium products such as the new premium bacon clubhouse range and the [world][ph] couture promotion that feature locally sourced and seasonal ingredients.
And I am excited to announce today – about the announcements today of our developmental licensee agreements with Autobahn Tank &amp; Rast.
This agreement gives us the opportunity to develop more than 100 new sites in fuel and service stations across the lucrative motorway service station network in Germany with no capital investment required by McDonald’s.
The first new restaurants are expected to open this year with the majority opening between 2016 and 2019.
Moving to China one of our high growth markets recovery continues from last year supplier issue.
Comparable sales remained negative in the second quarter at minus 3%.
However the top five cities which represent about 50% of sales are leading the recovery effort with flat comparable sales for the quarter.
Lower tier cities are not recovering as quickly driven primarily by weaker macroeconomic conditions in those outlying areas.
China is strengthening everyday value with a specific focus on the mid-tier price points continuing to enhance convenience for our customers through delivery and kiosks and elevating the quality perceptions of our burgers by piloting customization through experience of the future.
We are on track to return to a normalized level of performance in China for the second half of the year.
In fact prior to the anniversary of last year’s APMEA supplier issue the market has already returned to positive comparable sales performance in the first part of this month.
Let’s now transition to the U.S.
which represents over 40% of our business.
Results here have been disappointing.
We are committed to changing the trajectory of the business and arresting the nearly 3 years of decline.
We are working to promote discipline back into the business adapt more quickly to changing trends offer more compelling value across the menu and bringing new energy and tenacity to simply running better restaurants.
The localized structure implemented early this year was an important first step.
It’s designed to liberate market teams to be more responsive to local consumers and we have seen pockets of success.
The Northwest region for example was the country’s top performing region in 2014 and continues to generate positive results year-to-date here.
A strong restaurant operations culture coupled with an aggressive promotions like any size soft drink or coffee for a $1 is generating incremental traffic.
The Heartland region which includes Kansas City is also delivering comparable sales and guest count performance above U.S.
averages.
There a heavy breakfast focus coupled with a modernized restaurant base has fueled momentum.
And Boston which is coming back from the worst winter in its history has deployed a combination of regional products like the lobster roll a $2.99 Happy Meal to attract families and beverage value to drive sales and guest counts.
The U.S.
is focused on creating a better experience for customers by concentrating on value service and menu.
These are not headline grabbing moves but they became the return to running better restaurants.
So first getting back to winning on value.
Having aligned with our franchisees on the need for national price pointed value platform we are now making adjustments to our current offer for the rest of the summer.
This includes better marketing support and stronger coordination with local messages.
We are also evaluating options for longer-term national value platform.
Next we are enhancing the customer service experience.
This starts with the basics.
We have reduced the number of menu items in restaurants to make it easier for teams to deliver better service.
We are improving the speed of our drive-throughs with simplified menu boards.
We have cut the number of items displayed by about a third yet still highlight the items to deliver 80% or more of drive-through sales.
We are addressing order accuracy with new operational procedures and training programs already in almost half of our restaurants.
And we are increasing the number of dual line drive-through to deliver faster service to our customers during the busiest times of the day.
I will be launching our mobile app in the U.S.
in the third quarter.
This is part of our global digital strategy that over time is designed to streamline and improve the entire customer service experience.
The initial version of the app will make it easy for consumers to receive value when they choose McDonald’s through features like tail adopters that are easy to redeem and rewards for regular purchases of their favorite McCafé beverages.
And at the same time the team is already hard at work developing additional features to hasten the shift from mass communication to personal one-to-one engagement with customers in the future.
And finally menu this starts with our call products that define our brands.
We have implemented new cooking methods in our restaurant so we are seeing strong growth changing how we sear and grill our beef to deliver hotter juicier sandwiches.
And we are looking to further improve performance during our most successful dayparts.
For example our all-day breakfast trials have gone well so we have expanded those tests to better gauge customer response.
I believe we are making the right moves to begin to stabilize the U.S.
business.
But there is no silver bullet.
No one move will turn a business that’s been in decline for nearly 3 years and more recovery will be bumpy on comfortably moving in the right direction.
While our primary focus is on actions that will drive operating growth we have also taken steps to unlock financial value.
On May 4 we identified key areas of focus to unlock that financial value.
In just two months we have made good progress towards all our targets including G&amp;A refranchising and cash return.
Kevin will provide more details specific to those in a moment.
In closing I remain confident in the power of our brand and our network of franchisees employees and suppliers to capitalize on the growth opportunities before us.
It’s not enough to say that we want to be a modern progressive burger company consumers need to see us that way.
Shifting deep-seated perceptions the longer term proposition it requires us to move across negative barriers and embrace behaviors of a true global leader.
We have made significant progress in a short amount of time.
And I am confident the changes we are making are the right ones will position us to grow the business profitably for our system and our shareholders for the long-term.
Thank you.
And I will now turn over to Kevin.
Thanks Steve and hello everyone.
I would like to begin by discussing the factors that impacted our second quarter performance.
Then I will review some key components of our full year outlook and provide an update on the financial elements of our turnaround plan.
Let’s begin by reviewing the major drivers of our second quarter results.
Our overall financial performance continues to be largely reflective of our top line results.
For the second quarter comparable sales were down 0.7% reflecting negative guest traffic across all of our geographic segments with the largest impact coming from the U.S.
and Japan.
For perspective operating income for the quarter totaled $1.8 billion down $127 million or 6% in constant currency.
The U.S.
and Japan accounted for over 80% of the quarter’s overall operating income decline.
With more than 80% of our global restaurants franchised the largest driver of operating income continues to be our franchise margins which totaled $1.8 billion a 2% increase in constant currencies.
The growth in franchise margins was driven primarily by restaurant expansion in Europe and strong comparable sales in Australia.
Global company operating margin dollars declined 8% in constant currencies to $665 million for the quarter reflecting weakness across our major geographic segments.
The U.S.
Russia and China accounted for substantially all of the margin declines for the quarter.
Second quarter cost pressures were relatively consistent with our expectations.
In the U.S.
labor costs increased primarily due to planned minimum wage increases in several states and commodity costs rose approximately 1% primarily due to higher beef prices.
Effective July 1 U.S.
company operating margins will also reflect our decisions to raise wages and provide paid time-off for employees at our company operated restaurants along with providing educational assistance for all our restaurant employees.
We expect the total impact from these incremental labor costs to be approximately 200 basis points on U.S.
company-operated margins for the full year further pressuring margins for the second half of 2015.
To help offset cost pressures throughout our P&amp;L and remain in line with food inflation we took a price increase at the end of May.
Our U.S.
second quarter pricing year-over-year was up over 2% which remains below food-away-from-home inflation of around 3%.
The current projected increase in the food-away-from-home inflation for the full year remains at 2% to 3%.
Excluding currency Europe’s commodity costs were up about 2% in the second quarter.
Our price increases in Europe vary by markets with the overall segment excluding Russia averaging about 1.5% year-over-year.
For the quarter we also recorded nearly $50 million of other operating expense primarily due to $45 million of severance charges in connection with the restructuring of our global operations.
About half of these charges were incurred within our corporate functions and the other half in Europe and APMEA as we move to a flatter more nimble organizational structure.
Moving down the P&amp;L it’s worth noting our second quarter effective tax rate of 29.8% which was helped by lower tax costs associated with the company’s ongoing foreign cash repatriation.
We continue to expect the full year tax rate to be at the high end of our existing 31% to 33% range.
Earnings per share for the quarter was $1.26 which included a significant negative impact of $0.13 from foreign currency.
Looking beyond the second quarter currency translation is expected to be a headwind throughout 2015 as the U.S.
dollar remained strong against nearly all of the world other major currencies.
At these levels we now expect foreign currency translation to negatively impact our results by $0.14 to $0.16 in the third quarter and about $0.45 for the full year.
As usual take that as directional guidance only because rates will change as we move throughout the year.
Let me switch gears now for an update on the financial elements of our turnaround plan.
In May we announced our intent to accelerate our cash return to shareholders in 2015.
During the second quarter we returned $2.5 billion through dividends and share repurchases.
This brings our total cash return to shareholders through June to $3.9 billion and we remain on track to meet our target of $8 billion to $9 billion for the full year.
During the quarter we took advantage of favorable interest rates and increased overall debt by issuing $4.3 billion of U.S.
dollar and euro-denominated medium-term notes with an average tenure of over 10 years and an average interest rate of just over 2%.
Our overall philosophy on use of cash has not changed.
Our first priority is to reinvest in our business to drive future growth.
After that we expect to return all of our free cash flow over the long-term to investors through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
As we execute the initial steps of our turnaround plan we are actively evaluating our capital allocation decisions including our dividend as part of our broader strategic planning process.
As a result we are targeting our annual dividend announcement in November this year a slight change in timing from our typical September update.
One of the key areas of focus for the turnaround is better leveraging our business model including the benefits of franchising.
In conjunction with our goal to re-franchise about 3 500 restaurants by the end of 2018 and increase the global franchise percentage to about 90% we are already moving forward in several markets including Taiwan where we recently announced our intent to pursue a developmental licensee structure.
Taiwan is a well-established market with more than 400 restaurants the vast majority of which are company-operated.
While we are in the early stages of the process the conversion of this market to a developmental license will mark a meaningful step towards our overall refranchising goals.
The structural changes to our organization and our ownership mix not only better position us for future growth they will also deliver savings to our bottom line.
Earlier this month we made important changes in our corporate and segment support teams which included the elimination of some international and home office positions.
While these types of changes are never easy they were right for the business and will result in a leaner more agile organization that can better respond to market conditions and most importantly our customers.
The rapid execution of these resourcing decisions is an example of our sense of urgency to reset our business and changes the trajectory of our financial performance.
When we shared the initial details of our turnaround plan in May we established a target to achieve $300 million of net annual G&amp;A savings.
We expect to achieve about half of those overall savings by the end of next year with the remainder realized by the end of 2017.
Our planned refranchising activity is contributing towards these G&amp;A savings due to the less resource-intensive support structure inherent in a more heavily franchised model.
Importantly we are not stopping there.
We are moving to the next phase of our analysis relative to each of the financial areas of opportunity including ownership strategies asset optimization and overall spending.
We plan to provide an update on all of these areas at the November Investor Meeting.
The July 1 reorganization of our business into the new segment structure is an important first step in our global turnaround.
In conjunction with these changes we will be providing recapped financial information that reflects results under this new structure.
We expect to furnish our recapped summary financial information toward the end of third quarter for the years 2010 through 2014.
Quarterly details will be provided for 2014 and year-to-date June 2015.
In closing let me reiterate that we are fundamentally shifting the way we operate and approach our business to get back in step with consumers.
McDonald’s success has always been fueled by outstanding operations compelling marketing and great tasting food.
We operate under a unique business model that benefits from a highly collaborative relationship among the company independent franchisees and third-party suppliers all who take pride in their businesses.
We need all of these elements working together to provide a world-class experience that makes our customers feel welcome and valued.
Our turnaround plan is designed to fortify these fundamental cornerstones of our business.
And our operational growth led turnaround will also be supported by a comprehensive approach to financial management that’s focused on driving value for our system and our shareholders today and into the future.
Thanks.
And now I will turn it over to Chris to begin our Q&amp;A.
Thanks Kevin.
We will now open the call for analyst and investor questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Brian Bittner of Oppenheimer.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Question here Steve you talked about the early signs of momentum now with the second quarter results behind you.
You pointed to the fact that you expect positive comparable sales on a global basis in the third quarter.
How much of this improvement you are seeing is really the comparison in the Eastern Asia and the better trends in Europe versus any core improvements that you are now seeing since the second quarter in the U.S.
sales trend if any? And I do have a follow-up on that if you don’t mind.
Sure.
So first of all one important context to put within my comments about it being a positive global comparable sales quarter even without the impact and the bounce back from the supplier issue in APMEA we will be projecting a positive quarter.
So there is strength in the underlying like-for-like sales growth independent of that.
Now that bounce back further supports it.
We are seeing it more across the international lead markets which isn’t just Europe.
We are seeing that connected group of France Germany UK Canada and Australia are gathering momentum as a collective group which is great.
The U.S.
what we are working hard to do is minimize – and currently the U.S.
is a little bit of a drag.
We are looking just to narrow that gap and return that business to growth but we are not putting in anything significant for growth at all in the third quarter but we are working hard towards getting it by the end of the year.
Okay.
And am I still with you? Yes.
Yes.
Just to follow-up on that obviously value service and menu are the headline drivers for the U.S.
going forward and obviously a lot of moving pieces underneath that hood but I just want to ask on the value piece.
What is – you talked about a longer term national value platform that you are thinking about what are you thinking about in terms of that? Any color you can put on that? And maybe when we could really see it be implemented? Yes that’s right.
And as you know the owner/operators and the management team came together and recognized the need for a national value offer across this summer.
I think that’s further emphasized and cemented on their minds but the idea of national value going forward is a positive thing.
The $2.50 deal is not the answer but they are certainly being helpful in this immediate term.
And therefore the owner/operator group have already tasked themselves actually to come out with something they feel would be strong right across the country to benefit everyone’s business whether it’s the Northeast or the Southwest and we’ll share more news when it comes but it won’t be in the immediate term but it will fill an important role for us certainly as we look through 2016.
Next question is from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
I guess just following on that question.
I mean obviously we know you rolled out the $2.50 value meal in mid-June and obviously the simplified drive-through menu was fully implemented by early July.
So I guess I am wondering they obviously wouldn’t have any impact on the second quarter results but any color you can give on how both of them are benefiting July or maybe just talk a little bit about the success or what your thoughts are? Yes.
Well certainly both of those decisions that have been taken have helped our business.
It took us a little bit of time to execute the $2.50 as well as we wanted because having rolled that out it begun to conflict a little bit with a lot of energy in the regions because the regions were taking upon themselves to drive value on a local level.
So we spend a little bit of time for first two or three weeks just tidying that up getting our execution better in the restaurants and our marketing execution support for it and we expect a greater contribution through the rest of the summer; for the drive-through menu boards unequivocally positive from a consumer perspective and also for the restaurant – the team to deliver better service.
So again neither of them are going to be seismic changes to the trajectory of our business.
They are both positive moves and we are working hard in executing them both and they will certainly both contribute to rebuilding some momentum through quarter three.
Next question is from Andrew Charles of Cowen &amp; Company.
Great thank you.
The Australian turnaround was a few steps ahead of the U.S.
with a similar playbook between the two markets.
Can you help us size up the difference between the two starting points with the sales weakness in Australia as prolonged and as extreme that the U.S.
currently is? And then I have a follow-up on that as well.
I would say by and large it wasn’t far off yet.
What we have seen in turnarounds in all of our markets whenever we face a turnaround situation we’ve slightly taken our eye off the ball.
The competition has moved little quicker than we have.
We have lost the value foothold that’s so important to our business and we haven’t created compelling energetic plans with our operators in a way that we like to do when we have gone full throttle.
So the similarities heading into the turnaround were somewhat similar.
What I would call out Australia for and incredible credit to the team and the owner/operators there is the pace with which they’ve moved once they have galvanized themselves to get around big initiatives.
They have gone for a small number of big moves and they have gone quickly and they have gone together and that’s created visible change in the restaurants visible benefits to consumers and the traction is very very encouraging.
And by the way with the new structure we have with effectively six global major markets our ability to transfer that knowledge from market to market is that much quicker.
So I know Mike Andres and the team and the owner/operators in the U.S.
are very familiar with the Australia story with the UK turnaround story with what the German team have been doing and they [indiscernible] and adapted to local market.
Next question is from Joe Buckley Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
I have two questions in different directions.
First Steve or Kevin as you are reviewing the next phase of the financial moves that you have made and plan to update us at the November meeting does the real estate factor into that? Is that part of that analysis and part of what you might address one way or the other in November? Yes Joe it’s Kevin.
We are looking at everything I would say kind of the three components I’ve talked about the ownership strategy [indiscernible] optimization and cost structures.
We are kind of going through deeper analyses of each of those and so you should expect to hear an update on all those components in November.
Next question is from Keith Siegner of UBS.
Thanks.
Steve you talked about again value service in menu and when you talked about menu you mentioned all-day breakfast and the tests that are continuing there.
But when we look across the landscape of QSRs there is a lot of new product news really buzzy interesting stuff not always operationally complex but just good new product news.
And that really wasn’t a part of the conversation today when you are going through the menu piece.
How do we think about new product innovation at the regionalized level? Can you give us an update on that please? Thanks.
Yes it’s a really good question Keith.
The only thing I am most excited about with regards to the if you like the new menu news is the fact that the energy is going into revitalizing our core menu and that should not be lost.
I mean when we sit here and assess how can you make the biggest difference to the most customers in the shortest space of time improving our core menu and our delivery of the core menu is clearly the way to go.
So I don’t want to lose sight of the fact that toasting of buns better searing of beef taking care of the dressings and the packaging and the rest of it that gets noticed by customers.
With regards to if you like new product development I would say at a national level we will be looking at if you like quality over quantity.
It’s not about having lots of national LTOs because that does complicate the business.
It gets confusing to message right.
So we would be looking at fewer higher impact items going out and our team with Chef Dan and his team are working hard on that.
And then you will also see the localized options.
I called out lobster roll in Boston for example that could be much more nimble shorter-term relevant to the local consumer demographic in taste and flavors.
And I think you will see there two levels.
There will be not a frenzied activity.
It will be a calm measured and higher impact with fewer items national and then locally there will be some energy on a local basis.
But don’t miss out – honestly don’t miss out the benefit of continually improving our core menu as well.
Next question from David Palmer of RBC.
Thanks.
I was just wondering if you could dig into reasons examples why you are excited about international lead markets accelerating into the second half.
Are there specific examples of countries that are picking up momentum or platform innovation that you are excited about like for instance I think you were talking about Australia being one of the early ones to go out create your taste but more texture the better as far as what you are seeing in these markets? Thanks.
Yes I think it’s a great question.
As you look at the five lead markets first of all really strong local management teams and strong alignment of the operators is a consistency across all five.
That is a fantastic foundation but there were peculiarities and merits amongst each and every one of them.
If you go to France the advancements they have made with technology for example on how they have totally reappraised the customer journey is fantastic to see.
So let me be specific.
They now have self order chaos in all of their restaurants.
They are taking upward of 40% of the transactions through the busy hours through the self order kiosks.
And the reason that’s exciting is probably three reasons I guess.
One for the first time we give customers a choice and they just welcome choice.
Two it takes on the stress away from the front counter and therefore you divide some of the pressure some of the load during the busiest times.
And three from a commercial perspective we see higher average checks because customers spend little time ordering.
They can browse the menu for a little bit longer feel a little less pressure and they just tend to spend more.
So we are getting a lot of learns from that.
If you go to Germany for example which is earlier stages of a turnaround the brand has got its mojo back.
And when you do that you start to attract attention for the right reasons.
The new agreement we have just reached development license agreement with Tank &amp; Rast is a fantastic agreement for us because if anyone knows the travel infrastructure transport infrastructure in Germany you will know that autobahns play a huge role.
That’s helping people typically get from city to city.
And therefore to have roadside presence in up to 100 sites effectively to no capital from our perspective that’s what happens when a brand in a market gets its mojo back.
You start to attract this sort of partners we want to be doing business with.
Australia are progressing – basically they have become our lead market in what we call Create Your Taste.
Now all of our markets are building out the broader umbrella which is a good experience in the future.
Many components to that there is technology there is visual menu boards there is new service procedures there are self-order kiosks and customizable personalization of food.
The Create Your Taste group that the Australian team have gone down they rolled out market wide in a little over six months or seven months to a level where they can now nationally advertise it.
We are going to learn a lot of how that works it’s an in-store solution currently can we drive traffic in-store can we increase dwell time can we – is the table service that goes along with that matter to customers and our ability and our visibility for market to market on each of these initiatives.
I believe that’s when McDonald’s is at its best when we have test sales actively pushing the boundaries.
And when something works we can then transport it from market to market at pace.
And again I don’t want to minimize the number of things the U.S.
team are working on.
I mean the U.S.
is our lead market for the mobile app.
Now we have recognized we are a little behind some others where there is enough second seller in broader retail but let me put on line two things.
We are one of the best execution companies in the world.
The U.S.
will start with an app with fairly modest capabilities but the infrastructure is built so we can add to it and transfer it from market to market at pace.
So that is where I guess my energy and my confidence comes from is that kind of connective momentum and you start to spur each other on.
Next question is from Matt DiFrisco of Guggenheim.
Thank you.
Question is a little bit more on a modeling question with respect to an update on your outlook for refranchising and selling the company-owned stores.
I was wondering what are the early indications or site lines that you might have with respect to what type of EBITDA impact it might have? As we look out sort of 2 years from now how much EBITDA are you basically taking off of your bookstore? Is it pretty much a good substitute where we suspect that the storage you are selling could garner a similar rent in royalty structure than the existing 82% of your worldwide base of franchisees? Yes hey Matt.
Let me talk real quickly about the refranchising.
As you know there is a lot of kind of different things that go into that.
So the strategy and timing will probably vary across our different segments and even within markets.
Some markets will be completely franchised or converted to a developmental license while others will just have more conventional franchising.
So it’s difficult to estimate exact timing or exact financial implications of each of those.
As you can imagine these are long-term decisions that we are making generally for at least 20 years or so with right licensees and operators.
So it’s important we get this right and we will see G&amp;A and capital as we do this.
We will certainly get a little bit more stable revenue stream.
On an EBITDA basis it would be difficult to generalize on what that means in total for the company because it’s going to be pretty lumpy over the next couple of years as we have specific transactions getting there.
Next question is from David Tarantino with Robert W.
Baird.
Hi good morning.
Steve I have a question about the U.S.
business and the overall strategy there.
I think one of the key pillars of your turnaround strategy was to get more focused and reduce some of the complexity and improve business at the core.
And I think you are going to reference that earlier in the call here.
But at the same time we are seeing messages about all-day breakfast and things that sound fairly complex.
So could you help reconcile that with the overall strategy? It seems like there is complexity being added in some places when you are thinking about reducing complexity in others.
No it’s a perfect question David.
And I’d love to address that.
So as we explore different initiatives to drive the business clearly all-day breakfast is one of those.
So initially the owner/operator group they took a fairly pioneering approach out in San Diego and actually I was fortunate I went down to visit them just two or three weeks ago and spent time with the operator in their restaurants understanding what it really meant.
So we are trying to prove out and proving out the consumer business base consumer demand for all-day breakfast.
But to your point you can’t talk simplification and add to the meantime.
What we work on is are there multiple ways to reduce complexity and streamline the job for our personal managers enable them to be able to accommodate this.
So what we want to do – and people say why can’t you move faster with all-day breakfast for example? There were a number of moving parts to this.
So what we are going to need to do is a) prove out that the consumer-facing business case but also come up with how a low tracking work such as the net impact is net simplification.
Adding one thing and taking one thing off is not simplification.
So what we want to do is simplify the operation in sufficient other ways but even if we were to go with an all-day breakfast that the net impact on the restaurants is one of simplification.
So let me give you some ideas around that and what that really means.
Some of that is around simplifying the menu go deeper into some of the rationalization [indiscernible] things off.
There is way other ways of doing it than just the menu operational procedures.
We have a team with operators and some of our exposed in our national operations team here in the U.S.
looking at other procedures that we can simplify in the restaurant whether it’s the way we assemble menu items when we work whether it’s the way we have the packaging laid out whether it’s the way we use technology to be able to get orders to the back of the kitchen just to take out steps and workloads but we also have ideas just around entire process of how do we reduce the amount of noise when intended noise that goes into a restaurant that managers have to deal with on service and facing the customers.
So when you put all those work streams together and if we were to build a compelling business case if we were to believe all-day breakfast is sufficient sales driver that is worth making other complementary changes on simplification.
The net-net has to be simplification and it will only be up on that basis that we would be moving forward.
Next question is from John Glass of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
Kevin I am just trying to understand this imagine the scenario as you would cause you to reevaluate the dividend policy in some way either there maybe a negative scenario under which you would look at the payout ratio and say it’s getting too high and you need to bring that back into line or perhaps just like a positive scenario where you are thinking about the different cash flows to support that dividend that maybe dividing those up on different entities.
Can you at least provide us some direction in what way you are thinking about it? Is it a positive event a negative event? Because I think it’s so important and critical to the investor base of your stock.
Yes John.
As we think about all these financial areas so the refranchising looking at G&amp;A the ownership structures and kind of our whole strategic planning process that includes capital and how much capital we will be spending in the future etcetera all of these things become pretty interconnected as you can imagine.
So our thought was we need to examine the right view on all of these things together and talk about them in total as kind of the whole picture.
And so we will have that whole picture for everyone in November as we go through our strategic planning process get a better view into capital and have a better view on all these other financial areas also.
But I will just to add to that John as well.
When we were a little bit of a pivot point in the global where we believe we were seeing some early stages of momentum.
And if we were just to have an extra couple of months of trading under our belts as well that would also just give us another variable to put inside the equation as well.
So it’s important of us.
We are paying very acute attention to our trading performance momentum market by market particularly those major markets.
And again they all contribute to the underlying assumptions that help us make the right decisions for the business and for the shareholders.
Next question is from Karen Holthouse of Goldman Sachs.
Hi thank you for taking the question.
If you look at regions that have seen called earlier signs of momentum and are now momentum that you are building on whether it’s UK Australia when you look at consumer metrics that were leading indicators of that what were the ones that were most closely tied to the sales accelerating? And where do you see those metrics in the U.S.
today? I hope I am answering your question the right way Karen.
What we have done since the structure has been implemented is really identify rather than trying to have generic U.S.
wide consumer metrics is to few of the regions with that type of information and insight for them to make sharper decision.
So in some areas there was a stronger economic recovery than others.
In others the competition is different.
And in terms of the dynamics and demographics are different.
So what we have been doing and the markets where we are seeing the greater success are those that are using those consumer insights and responding quickest to the needs of consumers and what else is happening in the marketplace.
And typically they have taken one or two bolder moves.
They have put themselves out there and they have decided to take a bit of a charge and take some risks and show the way.
And then we will be transferring some of those learns from region to region over time.
I would say probably some of the characteristics of the leading regions at the moment are those who are using whether it’s disposable income metrics unemployment metrics value for money metrics their assessment of our day-to-day operations and are responding to those and are building plans to address the things that matter most to customers.
Next question is from Sara Senatore of Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask about the labor investment if you will that you are making in the U.S.
I think that’s something we have heard from a lot of companies.
Certainly it seems like the competition for labor has stepped up a little in addition to some of the regulatory changes whether it’s $15 minimum wage in some municipalities or over time requirements that go into effect.
I guess first I wanted to get a sense of whether what you are doing now is meant to preempt some of these actual legal regulations.
And also what is the implication for your franchisees which is a second part of that is broader how are the franchisees profitability economics and your relationship with them so if you can just talk about labor costs in the outlook and then also maybe give us an update on franchisee economics and where they stand with respect to some of the initiatives that you are taking on that side? Okay.
So I will talk let me begin and I will talk about some of the labor challenges and economics.
And then I will let Steve just talk about kind of labor or franchisee relations in general.
As you talk about Sarah there are certainly labor pressures around the world from a wage standpoint.
I don’t know that we think of it as kind of an undue pressure anything that’s going to harm our business.
But certainly labor costs on a pressure right now.
In several states as you know minimum wage has increased.
For us margin is essentially our top line gain.
So we need to grow sales.
Certainly we need to grow comp sales in order to grow our margins.
And the specific labor moves that we have taken are what we believe we should be doing as a business to make sure that we attract recruit and retain the best employees we can for our business.
And so we are doing that as long as in our mind as long as the playing field is level across industry we believe we can compete competitively in the long run.
And so our hope is that any of the regulations or a law comes through deal with all of the industries similarly.
And then we will all have to deal with the same concerns.
With regards to the franchisees I mean understandably they are concerned I mean as independent business men and women.
They are facing cost headwinds anyway which is just the nature of doing business in an inflationary environment but when there is way above inflation for instance on wages then that fairly concerns them.
I mean that certainly impacts their confidence and winning this to invest over the long-term if there is that sort of degree of uncertainty.
That said and done over our 60-year history we had surges in costs before.
We tend to go back and realize that all what we have to do is it’s a top line gain.
So we face them to the reality.
We play the [indiscernible] the franchisees who work with management and it just will force us to drive tougher plans harder plans more meaningful plans and drive the top line and get that carried down to help mitigate what are some above inflation headwinds for us.
But they are certainly anxious about it totally understandably it’s an open conversation that we have with them and we just use that concern to drive – fuel some energy around growing compelling plans and just turning into a positive for us.
Next question is from Jeff Bernstein of Barclays.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Actually just following on the U.S.
focus I have just a two part question.
One I am just hoping you could – maybe rank order in the U.S.
the categories or dayparts or products in terms of what you think is the greatest driver of the recent U.S.
market share loss.
It would seem like that’s the goal here we are doing more of your regional attack versus more national.
I am wondering if you could prioritize where you are seeing your greatest weakness versus perhaps the most resilient.
And then the other part was just could you just clarify – follow-up that earlier question in terms of the franchisees just wondering whether it seems like we are hearing more about more challenging relationship I am just wondering whether there is any actions being considered to help support the franchisees during the difficult period whatever that might mean or whatever form that might take? Absolutely.
Thanks Jeff.
So in terms of last daypart if you look at our product mix and where we have seen a loss in the competitive gap open up is we have lost of the value end of our menu.
So breakfast remains very resilient.
So it’s really through the daytime daypart where we have seen that gap open up over the last probably 12 to 18 to 24 months.
Really as we moved away from Dollar Menu we can replace it with upwards of an equivalent former value and customers are bothered with that fee.
The teams have recognized that and that’s why we put the summer value driver in place and are working on a longer-term ongoing platform.
In terms of relations the owner/operator is an incredibly resilient group and they are fantastic to work with.
We have very open conversations with them.
I know Mike Andres and his leadership team in the U.S.
and the owner operator leadership team is spending more time together than ever which is what you do to as you start to rebuild the business plans and drive some growth.
One thing that’s – and I have had the opportunity and the fortune to spend some time with them as well.
One thing that I have absolutely wanted to make sure is really clear an evidence of that is we will be willing to support the owner operators as they and the U.S.
management team build compelling growth plans.
Now this isn’t about underpinning cost implications.
This is if you would grow and invest in your businesses we will do what we have always done.
We will co-invest with them for growth and that remains as true if not more true today than ever has done.
And as they do those plans out and they finalize a lot of these tests of inflation environment I look forward to kind of investing with them.
It will be a great opportunity for us and it would demonstrate our support to them.
And that gives the owner operators a huge amount of confidence.
But we are here shoulder to shoulder with them and they are recognizing that.
We are building some exciting plans.
Next question is from Jason West of Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks.
Just I guess following up on that thought Steve.
Just can you talk about as you are trying to turn around the U.S.
business and comparing it to some of the successes we are starting to see in other markets do you feel like this system needs some capital investments in the stores whether it’s equipment or menu board or things like that to really to get this turnaround moving or do you think we can do it without significant capital investments? The initiatives we are working on and Mike and the owner operators who work on environment are ones where I would say there is relatively modest investment need.
It’s not the same as rebuilding restaurants or dramatic refurbishments.
I mean there are some of our restaurants that do look tide and independently one by one the owner operators will make that decision for themselves.
And we will support them on an individual basis.
If we are looking at system wide initiatives we have recognized it’s an affordable investment level.
It may involve some technology investments.
It may involve some minor part equipment investments and those are sorts of things we will be co-investing with them because a lot of investments have already been made in the restaurant.
They have invested well and we believe the growth initiatives in this short to medium-term are certainly not going to be of the order of one or two initiatives in the past.
We have time for one more question from John Ivankoe of JPMorgan.
The question is on the U.S.
once again.
Just thinking about the drive-through menu redesign where I think a third of the menu items came off why not go further and really highlight that 20% or whatever it is on the menu that has the most turn to presumably increase throughput.
And I asked this and kind of a broader question is do you think the U.S.
is in a position from a brand perspective or a customer perspective where the in-store brand experience and the drive-through brand experience can actually be split up.
And clearly I am asking a leading question regarding the potential success of Create Your Taste in the United States as presumably you are seeing some signs of in Australia? So can we go further on the drive-through menu board in terms of price I think the answer is yes.
And as we are exploring other platforms of growth new items introduced I think you will see us go a little bit deeper in terms of menu rationalization.
Whether that’s just taking off the menu board and the merchandising or actually taken out off the menu entirety I think you will see a bit of both actually.
So I think there is further to go and now team are looking at that as we speak.
In terms of the drive-through versus in-store I think the important piece is less Create Your Taste element and having that type in-store is more where you place technology to offer a better experience to the customer.
So if you are going to introduce self order kiosks clearly that’s going to create a very good environment in store.
You don’t really have a cell phone or kiosk for drive-through but you may get order ahead.
You may got to use the app and some of the technology that we can introduce to that but they would order ahead get geo-location get recognized in the drive-through lane rise their order off to the back of the kitchen before they even have to place the order.
So I think technology will be a differentiator to give us different service models but it will still be a McDonald’s.
They will still enjoy the McDonald’s experience but just in different ways.
I think technology is the differentiator rather than a different two-tier strategy.
We are near the top of the hour so I will turn it over to Steve who has a few closing comments.
Okay thank you Chris and again thanks to everyone for joining us this morning.
Hello and welcome to McDonald’s October 22 2015 Investors Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald’s Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today’s presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Stent Vice President of Investor Relations from McDonald’s Corporation.
Mr.
Stent you may begin.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Easterbrook and Chief Financial Officer Kevin Ozan.
Today’s conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by webcast.
Before I turn it over to Steve I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available on www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today’s call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
Last month we provided unaudited summary financial information and historical segment data consistent with the company’s new structure.
The updated annual information was provided for 2010 through 2014.
Quarterly details were also provided for 2014 through June 2015.
Specific questions related to this summary financial information and historical segment data will be addressed by the Investor Relations team through a frequently asked questions document that will be distributed on October 30.
Given the very limited number of questions received we are no longer planning to host a separate conference call to discuss this information.
And now I would like to turn it over to Steve.
Thank you Chris.
Good morning everyone.
It’s been 8 months since I stepped into the position of CEO.
Since then we have made meaningful progress to fuel our turnarounds and begin repositioning McDonald’s as a modern progressive burger company.
Our turnaround is operationally led.
It’s grounded in running great restaurants which is the first step to enhancing the customer experience.
People have more choices than ever about where to dine.
We want to give them more reasons to dine in McDonald’s by recommitting to hot fresh food cost friendly service contemporary restaurant experience all at the value of McDonald’s.
Our number one priority is to return critical markets to sustainable revenue and income growth.
To do so we must be customer centric in our planning and our decision-making.
We must have the best talent in the most critical positions.
And our system must be aligned around the actions we are taking to consistently run great restaurants.
And we must execute initiatives that ultimately enhance our appeal in the areas that matter most to consumers to great tasting high quality food convenience and value.
Whilst we are still in the early phases our turnaround plan is working.
Customers are beginning to respond to the actions we are taking and this progress is reflected in our third quarter results.
As we have discussed previously the U.S.
and international lead market segments generate over 80% of global operating income.
For third quarter five of our six most significant markets drove positive comparable sales growth with France’s comparable sales being marginally negative.
We also grew consolidated margins operating income and earnings per share on a constant currency basis.
These results do in part reflect the benefits from comparisons to the 2014 China supplier issue and the prior year’s increasing tax reserves.
However operating results for the quarter were still up modestly when you exclude these items and take into consideration the significant currency headwinds.
Looking ahead as we begin fourth quarter global comparable sales are expected to be positive in all segments.
Every market face a significant role in our global turnaround.
Some markets like Canada Australia and the UK are further along.
They continue to deliver strong sustained growth.
That said all markets have adjusted how they think and how they operate to ensure their actions and decisions are grounded in satisfying customers in their local markets today and for the long-term.
The U.S.
business remains front and center given its fundamental importance to overall consolidated results.
Its shift to positive comparable sales in the third quarter the first quarterly comparable sales increase in the U.S.
in two years is a tangible sign of the progress and reflects the initial steps we have taken in areas that matter most to our customers: great tasting high quality food convenience and value.
In the area of food we have made progress toward enhancing the taste of our products and improving consumer perceptions of quality.
Our core classics define the McDonald’s brand.
That’s why we’ve enhanced operational procedures.
We are toasting buns longer changing how we sear and grill burger patties to bring out the best in our menu and serve hotter juicier sandwiches to our customers.
We transition back to the original recipe for our Egg McMuffin using butter instead of margarine to deliver an even tastier sandwich.
Customers appreciated the change and we saw a double-digit increase in the number of Egg McMuffins sold immediately following the rollout.
In August we introduced the buttermilk chicken sandwich made with 100% chicken breast meat and real buttermilk.
This new product complements our ongoing core menu emphasis and customers have responded favorably.
Initial results have exceeded the high end of our expectations.
And at the start of the fourth quarter we rolled out all-day breakfast across the U.S.
Customers have been asking for this for years and we’ve challenged ourselves to move past legacy barriers to deliver and we did.
Our ability to move from one market in May to all 14 000 restaurants speaks to the commitment and alignment of franchisees and our entire system have been customer led in our decisions and our actions.
We have also taken action to enhance our convenience and the overall customer experience.
Early this year we implemented operational procedures designed to improve order accuracy remove some items in the menu and simplified the drive-through menu boards.
Our goal is net simplification.
We have established screens to evaluate operational complexity versus the expected impact on the customer and the business.
And ultimately we want to focus our efforts on fewer bigger decisions that generate bigger rewards.
We also took a first step toward enhancing the customer experience digitally with the deployment of the mobile application.
To-date there have been over 2 million downloads of the app and 1.5 million offers redeemed.
We will begin national advertising later this month.
Now from a value standpoint we are aligned lined with franchisees on the need for national value.
The summer $2.50 Double Cheeseburger and Small Fry promotion was the first step.
And we remain committed with operators in working towards restoring more permanent national value platforms in the future.
Customers are noticing the differences.
Our customer feedback system which now tracks approximately 10 million customer touch points each year reflects consistent improvement in customer feedback scores.
We are seeing this across all key categories measured with the most significant improvement seen in the areas we focused on namely food quality friendly and fast service and order accuracy.
Let’s now turn to the international lead markets segment starting with Australia.
Third quarter marks four consecutive quarters of comparable sales and guest counts in Australia.
The market turnaround began last year as the customers responded to the combined initiatives that collectively improved our overall experience.
This included a renewed focus on improving operations the added convenience of offering Barista crafted McCafé beverages through the drive-through and the stronger value platform with the re-launch of the Loose Change menu.
This year we have been giving customers even more reasons to visit our restaurants with the rollout of a new Value Menu of breakfast and through effective marketing and promotional efforts including monopoly.
National advertising of the Experience the Future which includes self-order kiosks digital menu boards table service and burger customization through Create Your Taste began July 1.
While early we are encouraged with the initial results and the positive buzz we have created in the market.
And we’re fueling that energy as we add chicken and salad offerings to the Create Your Taste platform later this month.
Let’s now turn to Germany a market showing early signs of a turnaround.
Customers are responding to the steps we have taken to enhance the appeal of premium products by emphasizing the provenance and sustainability of ingredients.
The new clubhouse veggie sandwich in August along with a re-hit of a proven customer favorite [indiscernible] contributed to positive comparable sales in the third quarter.
And this month’s launch of the McB a premium burger that’s made with 100% organic beef from farms in Germany and Austria reinforces food quality message to our customers.
In France we continue to maintain share despite the challenging macro environment and in a formal eating out market experiencing its fourth consecutive year of decline.
Customers appreciate the actions we have taken to strengthen value at every price tier.
This includes introducing McFirst earlier this year a three item meal combination for under €5 and extending Petit plaisir across more product categories and dayparts.
In addition strong marketing campaigns including the Grand Premium and the American summer food events have successfully driven premium sandwich sales.
We are also elevating the service experience by providing customers with new ways to order and be served in our restaurants.
Self-order kiosks are now in more than 90% of French restaurants and we are now offering table service in more than half.
Strong performance continues in the UK and Canada.
These two market’s ability to sustain prolonged growth is a direct result of their robust planning process which directly links actions to the specific consumer needs.
Strong quality campaigns in both markets are boosting customer perceptions of core classics and successful promotions a new menu in use like the Chicken Legend in the UK and the new Mighty Angus in Canada have driven growth in premium products.
Since Russia and China are two high growth markets of particular interest let’s spend a moment on them.
Both markets posted positive comparable sales from the quarter as they recover from last year’s well-documented issues.
The team’s execution against strong recovery plans with a comprehensive focus around great tasting high quality food convenience and value has successfully restored brand trust scores in both markets.
However we face near-term headwinds given an economic slowdown in China and continued volatility in Russia.
In addition to the operational elements of the turnaround plan each market is executing around the globe we continue a regular cadence of meaningful moves consistent with the leadership brand.
We believe these moves will ultimately improve consumer perceptions of our brand.
In September we announced our plans in the U.S.
to transition to cage free eggs over the next 10 years.
More recently we collaborated with a number of global brand leaders to raise awareness for the plight of refugees and the need to support the United Nation’s World Food Program.
And earlier this week we announced our participation in the White House Climate Pledge.
Turning around our business requires a relentless focus on what consumers want and expect from McDonald's.
Our responsibility is to give them reasons to feel good about visiting time and again.
Our opportunity is to differentiate McDonald's while delivering what consumers want today while laying the foundation for what they would expect tomorrow and our commitment is to deliver on both.
I am pleased with the progress we have made and remain confident in the ability of our talented system of franchisees employees and suppliers to revitalize our connection with customers as we execute our turnaround plan into 2016.
Thank you.
And I will now hand it over to Kevin.
Thanks Steve and hello everyone.
Today’s earnings release marks our first quarterly reporting under the new segment structure.
So I want to spend a few minutes outlining the new segments as a lead-in to my discussion of the factors that impacted the company’s third quarter performance.
Effective July 1 we completed an important first step in the company’s global turnaround plan the reorganization of our business from a geographically focused structure to segments that combine markets with similar characteristics and opportunities for growth.
Our reporting segments now include the U.S.
our largest individual market accounting for over 40% of consolidated operating income the international lead segment which includes our established markets of Australia Canada France Germany and the UK that collectively account for about 40% of the company’s operating income; the high-growth segment which includes markets with relatively higher restaurant expansion and franchising potential including China Italy Poland Russia South Korea Spain Switzerland and the Netherlands.
Together these markets account for about 10% of the company’s operating income and the foundational and corporate segment that encompasses the remaining markets.
Each of which has the potential to operate under a largely franchised model.
These markets are combined with corporate activities for reporting purposes.
From a business operation standpoint this new structure brings similar markets together to leverage their collective insights and expertise to deliver a better overall experience for our customers.
From a reporting standpoint the new structure provides greater visibility into the key markets driving the vast majority of the company’s underlying financial performance.
So let’s take a look at the major drivers of our third quarter results.
Earnings per share for the quarter increased $0.31 to $1.40.
In constant currencies third quarter earnings per share increased $0.48.
These results benefited from the comparison against prior year results which included an increase in our tax reserves and the China supplier issue.
These items negatively impacted third quarter 2014 earnings per share by $0.41.
Excluding the impact of the unusual prior year items third quarter earnings per share would have increased $0.07 or 5% in constant currencies.
Looking beyond the unusual prior year items third quarter global comparable sales were up 4% reflecting positive comparable sales across all segments and positive guest counts in all segments except the U.S.
The international lead market segment was the largest contributor to the company’s third quarter comparable sales performance posting an increase of 4.6% led by strong comparable sales and guest counts in Australia the UK and Canada.
Germany’s results were uneven but encouraging as the market posted positive comparable sales for the second consecutive quarter.
And in France comparable sales were marginally negative as the market’s macroeconomic environment and informal eating out industry remained challenged.
The high growth markets generated strong comparable sales of 8.9% for the quarter reflecting sales recovery in both China and Russia.
For perspective China’s comparable sales were up 26.8% for the quarter.
The U.S.
reported a comparable sales increase from 0.9% for the quarter supported by the introduction of the new buttermilk crispy chicken sandwich and a return to the classic recipe for our Egg McMuffin.
Comparable sales performance improved for the latter part of the quarter.
With more than 80% of our global restaurants franchised the largest driver of operating income continues to be our franchised margins which totaled $1.9 billion a 7% increase in constant currencies for the quarter.
The franchise margin percent increased 20 basis points to 82.2% driven by the positive comparable sales generated by the international segments.
Global company operated margin dollars increased 9% in constant currencies to $675 million for the quarter while the company operated margin percent increased 10 basis points to 15.8%.
China’s sales recovery accounted for the majority of the margin improvement for the quarter partly offset by ongoing labor costs in the U.S.
The incremental labor costs in the U.S.
related primarily to our decision to invest in our people by raising wages and providing paid time off for employees at our company operated restaurants as well as providing educational assistance to all eligible U.S.
restaurant employees effective July 1.
These costs along with wage increase have mandated by several states during the first half of the year impacted third quarter U.S.
margins by about 400 basis points.
For the quarter U.S.
commodity costs rose about 1% primarily due to higher beef prices.
Our U.S.
third quarter pricing year-over-year was up about 2% which remains below food away from home inflation of around 3%.
The current projected increase in food away from home inflation for the full year remains at 2% to 3%.
Commodity costs for the international lead markets segment were up about 0.5% in the quarter.
While price increases vary by market year-over-year increases for these markets averaged 1% to 2%.
Moving down the P&amp;L G&amp;A for the third quarter ended at $584 million up 9% in constant currencies due entirely to higher incentive-based compensation accruals versus the prior year.
Despite this unfavorable quarterly comparison we are making progress against our previously announced savings target.
Looking beyond the third quarter currency translation is expected to be a headwind for the final quarter of 2015 as the U.S.
dollar remained strong against nearly all of the world’s other major currencies.
Based on current exchange rates we expect currency translation to negatively impact fourth quarter earnings per share by $0.08 to $0.10.
As usual take this as directional guidance only because rates will change as we move throughout the quarter.
Before I conclude my remarks I want to make a comment about our financial outlook for the full year 2015.
As you know each quarter we typically provide details around our expectations for several key components influencing our financial results in an outlook section.
In light of our upcoming November Investor Meeting we did not provide an update on our financial outlook in either today’s prepared remarks or as part of today’s 8-K filing.
An update on these components will be provided in conjunction with our investor meeting in a few weeks.
In closing the transition in both our operating and reporting structure represents a new era for McDonald’s as we move toward becoming a more focused and efficient organization.
While we are less than six months into executing our turnaround plan our third quarter results demonstrate early signs of progress with both our top and bottom line results.
We are encouraged by this progress but recognized that there is much more work to be done.
As we begin fourth quarter we are energized by the challenges in front of us.
Thanks.
And now I will turn it over to Chris to begin our Q&amp;A.
Thanks Kevin.
We will now open the call for analyst and investor questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Joe Buckley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Thank you.
I would like to ask a about the U.S.
all-day breakfast launch.
I don’t know if you can talk about the experience so far sales wise and whether you can talk about the sales or not maybe talk about some of the operational issues challenges and what you have learned kind of two weeks into the national launch? Yes hi Joe Steve here.
So we launched officially nationwide on October 6 and I would say the enthusiasm levels from customers and from our teams in the restaurants are high.
It’s been a successful rollout.
The owner/operators have really embraced this.
I mean to go from a test market in May to a nationwide rollout by October is a significant validation of the alignment of the operators behind this.
When they approved it they approved it with a 98% plus approval rating around the country.
So there is a lot of unity and alignment behind it.
And from an operational perspective having spent a fair bit of time in the markets the last two or three weeks the operators have been really again enthused at the fact that this has created - it’s been a lot smoother from an operational perspective than perhaps people had feared.
The reality is the ingredients the equipment the training the procedures is already very very well-established in the restaurants.
And by launching all-day breakfast whilst at the same time removing some of the more complex lower sales items at the same time we have a net simplification in the restaurants and we have a – we are driving full.
So it’s early days to give too much a read on sales but we are certainly encouraged.
And more importantly the owner/operators are very encouraged about how we have kicked off.
Next question is from Andy Barish of Jefferies.
Hey guys.
Just on the U.S.
margin side of the story is that 400 basis points going to kind of continue on the labor line just to try to get a sense of that investment over the next year or so? Hey Andy.
As we announced in April we made this decision to invest in our people and raise wages provide paid time off.
And at that time we indicated that we expected the impact of this as well as other state-mandated increases to be about 200 basis points on our margins for the full year this year.
Since obviously the large majority of that impact happens in the second half of the year that implies that the impact on the second half would be substantially more than 200 basis points.
So the impact is relatively in line with our expectations.
The payback from the investment will take a little time in terms of lowering turnover having stronger employees deliver a better customer experience ultimately driving top line sales.
Moving forward it will obviously continue to impact margin comparisons for the next three quarters until we lap the July 1.
But as you know margins are also significantly impacted by our top line.
So if we are able to generate higher comps that would certainly mitigate some of that impact.
Andy just to add on to that just clearly there is the cost element we try to be very transparent about that.
Ultimately the ambition from the move we have made is to just drive the experience in the restaurants and we see this as a meaningful move for us to be able to attract and retain the best talent in the marketplace.
And if we can drive some efficiencies by reducing turnover which a motivated committed workforce tend to reduce the turnover levels we maybe able to get some benefit if it come backs from that.
But I just wanted to broaden out the conversation because yes there is a cost but frankly this is part of the bigger picture running better restaurants motivated teams and committed crew.
Next question is from Will Slabaugh of Stephens.
Yes thanks guys.
It’s actually Billy on for Will.
Just wondering if now that we have a new reporting structure if you could just kind of walk us through some of the cadence and I guess distribution I guess of the refranchising initiatives and maybe some of the new store openings across each segment? Yes.
So you can see the actual new store openings within each segment in the back of the earnings release.
As far as moving forward and how kind of capital and refranchising and new openings may happen in the future we will talk about that more in the upcoming investor meeting in November.
Next question is from David Palmer of RBC.
Thanks.
Looking back at the summer ‘11 value menu could you just comment as to where that did work where it didn’t work some of the lessons of that? And separately the simplification of the menu in the U.S it seems to be something that’s more to come.
Where do you stand on that? And where do you see that going forward? Thanks.
Yes hi David.
So from the value program across the sub I think on the call last quarter acknowledge that it got off to a little bit of a bumpy start as we launched it it was in a way bumping into some of the local value initiatives that each of the regions were driving which made – and then we reset and the performance of the $2.50 double cheese and small fry improved across the summer as the focus got clearer and our execution in the restaurants got sharper.
So it filled the gap for us.
We do have a desire along with our owner/operators of a more sustained value platform which we will be looking to introduce through 2016 but it certainly played a meaningful role across the summer helping to drive the footfall.
In terms of simplification I just – again simplification in the way we are looking at this and the way the team in the U.S.
is looking at it is menu is part of it but there is a lot more we can do to help simplify the restaurants on a day-to-day basis both from a customer perspective but also from our managers and our crew.
So there is operational simplification there is training simplification.
There is things we can do with merchandising to make it easier for customers and navigate the restaurants and also with packaging as well.
So the team there were sub-teams that are addressing each of these areas of opportunity.
So yes menu is one piece but the whole operational complexity the training and merchandising and packaging is another.
And it’s the sum of those parts is what manages and begin to recognize that we are working hard to make their life a little easier so they can just focus on what they love to do which is just running the restaurants and serving customers.
Next question is from Matt DiFrisco of Guggenheim.
Thank you.
The question is that you guys cite that the chicken item was – which I think most of us perceive to be somewhat premium was a successful driver and welcomed by the American consumer and the part of their recovery and the comp going positive.
But a lot of the attention has been mentioned about sort of the value consumer and the value coming down.
And there are some votes coming now on the new value menu in the weeks ahead.
I am just curious is this – has this experience maybe emboldened you to think there is and the new product innovation might be a little more skewing towards the premium side or how should we look at the – where the easiest opportunity is to recover if the consumer that might be in the near-term lapse and you can get back quicker and what would be the thing of the marketing they’d respond to the most of would you think it will be premium or value? Yes.
Thanks for the question.
And again the way we look at this is how can we deliver the best value across all tiers on that menu.
So you are actually right with the buttermilk chicken.
That was premium product premium quality and a premium price that goes with it.
And because of the taste because of the quality and the execution of restaurants their customers really did respond well.
And as I said earlier it’s got outperformance at the high end of our expectations.
But I think you would see as we build our calendars out across any of our markets but certainly here in the U.S we do want to – we want to provide the best value of each level great value core products great value premium.
And probably one of the areas where we are still a little weaker is at that more entry level value level.
And that’s what you have been hearing about.
And that’s what – we are working with the operators on and the operators are aligning behind what they believe will be strong platform as we enter 2016 to help drive the foothold.
Because we know that the top line going into positive territory was encouraging for us.
There is no doubt about that.
Our ultimate measure of success will be serving more customers more often and that’s getting the guest counts moving as well.
Next question is from Jake Bartlett of SunTrust.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just to gauge the kind of the core the turnaround in the U.S.
aside from the breakfast all day when do you think that the fourth quarter in the U.S.
will be positive even without the breakfast all day introduction? It’s a difficult one to read.
I mean what I would say is what has given me the most satisfaction from the way that the team have galvanized themselves in the U.S.
is actually we are running better restaurants than we were a year ago.
So if – and that is ultimately what customers respond to.
And then as we innovate around the menu and have promotional activity and have fun with that that would increment the sales but running better restaurants day in and day out.
And customers are telling us through this kind of very material feedback loop we have now that we are – they are noting the changes in the areas that mattered most to them which is speed friendliness and accuracy.
Through the quarter it’s probably fair to say we ended the quarter just a little stronger than we started.
But I wouldn’t read too much into that.
I mean turnarounds are about momentum and we want to establish momentum over the short-term medium-term and long-term.
We have got one – we put one mark around that.
And as we start to build quarter-upon-quarter you will be able to read that no more underlying momentum in the business.
But running better restaurants is a great start shopping up our merchandising simplifying the drive for operation underpins everything else we are doing.
So I feel good about that.
Next question is from Sara Senatore of Bernstein.
Thank you.
I wanted to ask about some of the high growth markets.
Obviously very very strong comps out of China and it sounds like Russia also I guess a couple of questions.
One is you did mention that some near-term headwinds from volatility but certainly – or a slowdown in the economy.
But certainly that wouldn’t have appeared to be the case in the quarter.
So I just wanted to ask about that comment.
And also the margins there again on such high comps they might have expected even more margin expansion can you just talk about is that your emphasis on value in that market and clearly again with such strong comps the right trade-off to make.
But is that what we are seeing there.
And I guess last piece on that segment is I think you are targeting more of a franchise mix.
So is it safe to assume that most of the refranchising that you have laid out will come in China and Russia or a disproportionate amount? Thanks.
I think probably both Kevin and I will have a go on that one Sara there is a fair bit in there.
So China clearly took a hit third quarter last year.
We expected a return to growth clearly.
And we are pleased we did.
I have got to say I am very proud of the team in China.
I am going to say I am very proud of the change in China because they were in a very difficult situation a year ago.
And they said after facing a two-pronged approach to recover the business momentum.
One was around trading hard and particularly trading hard on value.
And the second one was restoring brand trust.
And actually in that market now our trust metrics are higher than they were prior to the supplier incidents a year ago.
So I think that kind of validate the focus they have put on there.
As we look forward there are probably four elements the team are working on across the next couple of quarters continuing on brand trust consist everyday value at the entry and mid-tier levels.
They have got a big an exciting play around convenience and particular around digital activation and delivery.
So those are two drivers that aren’t unique to China but are very material to the consumer in China.
Digital activation working with some of main tech partners in China we got some great relationships there and a very strong delivery business.
And the full fun is just around consumer excitement just having fun with products and the experience in the restaurants.
So we – I don’t want anyone to think that just because we were down last year you would ultimately bounce back.
You have got to work hard for it.
The team have worked for it.
And net-net if you look at the 2-year comp we were slightly up across that 2-year period which across that quarter which I think is credit to the team.
Let me touch on margins and franchising.
Related to margins in that group a couple of things.
One certainly China’s margins were covered in this quarter versus last year as a result of their sales recovery.
Russia has currency pressure.
We import a chunk of our food and paper in Russia both in terms of dollar and euro.
And so there is still pressure on Russia’s margins because of those imported food and paper costs.
So that’s still putting pressure on the margins within the high growth segment.
Related to franchising I think we have said that most of our franchising opportunities certainly it’s probably within Asia.
So China certainly would be a part of that.
We will update a little bit more of our detailed franchising plans as we get to the investor meeting in November.
But I think it’s safe to say that the high-growth segment which certainly have franchising activity going forward.
Next question is from Karen Holthouse of Goldman Sachs.
Hi thank you for the question.
I not only originally started talking about some of the wage increases at your stores.
My understanding was they are going to be phased in towards $10 over a period of year.
So once we get is that correct once we get to sort of the four out of the 200 basis points how to think about sort of the next quantifying the next side of that.
And then also on the franchise side of this system what sort of pressure might they be seeing on their margins right now from just overall wage pressures in the environment or is it another way to look at that just rate general wage inflation rates? Yes.
Karen the plan what was never to phase in kind of these increases.
We did an increase across the board in July really impacting kind of all other the restaurants.
So our average rate right now at our company operated restaurants is nearly $10 right now.
And so I wouldn’t see a significant additional phasing in above and beyond kind of where we are right now.
Certainly as state mandate changes we may have to adjust to some of those.
But there isn’t another wave in our plans to go in and kind of it all restaurants again.
Next question is from Nicole Miller Regan of Piper Jaffray.
Thank you.
I want to understand a little bit more of where you are taking shares from.
And I am not sure these are the buckets you would define it.
But may you could adjust accordingly.
But by – in order of magnitude do you think that you are and can continue to pick up share from C stores or is it other legacy large QSR players or is it from consumers eating at home? Thank you.
So this is a U.S.
question I am assuming Nicole? Yes.
So I will answer on that basis.
Well I think our immediate term is to win back share from the nearer term competition.
That’s what we are focused on.
And then as we build out our experience in the future I think that will get us – that will make us more attractive to a broader set of customers.
But at the moment I would say nearer term traditional competition is the market share we are biting at the moment.
And clearly we are playing to our strengths.
Breakfast has always been a historic strength and we continue to do very well at breakfast during the breakfast daypart but now into other dayparts as well.
And just as an additional perspective for the third quarter our comp GAAP was a negative 3.2%.
So we still have room certainly to increase that.
That’s substantially down from Q2 and Q1.
That’s QSR sandwich category that it’s against but we certainly have opportunity and we have been seeing a few recent weeks kind of the opposite where we have been out comping some of that same competition.
Next question is from Brian Bittner of Oppenheimer.
The U.S.
segment operating income was still down a little bit even though comps turned positive and that’s obviously because of all the investments you are making but as you look out towards the next 6 to 12 months given the way you are thinking about cost what type of same-store sales growth do we need to see some positive operating income growth to that overall segment? How are you thinking about that? Yes Brian.
We had a little difficulty hearing but I think you are asking about kind of the U.S.
comp and what we would need potentially to maintain or grow margins there.
So we obviously talked about the labor costs that are impacting the U.S.
We have said in a normal inflationary environment we generally need a 2% to 3% comp in the U.S.
to maintain margins.
With these additional labor costs certainly the comp needed to maintain margins in the near-term would be higher than that.
Commodities right now aren’t a big pressure on us.
And so commodities really aren’t the concern.
It’s more of a comp needed to kind of overcome these near-term labor costs.
Next question is from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Just a question on all-day breakfast I guess on any early read in terms of what your preliminary estimates might be on the comp benefit from the rollout? And I guess just maybe any early read on what kind of customer you are getting buying breakfast? Is it a new customer? Is it a cannibalizing sale? Any color there would be great.
I really don’t want to give too much guidance here Karen not to be evasive but just when you are a first couple of weeks in and we have got a lot of media behind it I don’t want to give a wrong read.
We are starting higher as you would expect out the box than what we would expect our steady run-rate to be when things settle down but we see it being incremental profitable business that is driving existing customers in more often and attracting new customers.
So the anecdotals I get as I move around the country and getting to the restaurants is though if you are in a shoot in town you are seeing a lot a lot of activity into the evenings and the overnights around breakfast items that is just cultish amongst the students but you can go directional mid-afternoon to see a more mature group that we are sitting there who can now enjoy the product with Egg McMuffin mid-afternoon and having to watch – clock watching and try and make the 10:30 a.m.
deadline.
So it’s just makes life easier for customers.
They don’t have to look at the watch and managed too hard their time.
So broad appeal a strong start from an operational perspective from an execution perspective and I think the team has done a great job from the marketing launch and just having some fun with it.
I mean more than anything else it’s fun.
Customers are enjoying it and so our teams and restaurants.
Next question is from Keith Siegner of UBS.
Thank you.
Congratulations.
So is this momentum in the U.S.
hopefully it builds off all of the stuff from ops new products value digital messaging all this.
How do you feel about the status of the U.S.
asset base? And the opportunity maybe to kind of re-image into this momentum and even further bolster it? Thanks.
So you said the work here.
And the most important word I think in any consumer base of business or any retail is momentum.
And momentum breached confidence confidence breached – it becomes a virtual cycle of success if you like.
And we are just beginning to feel some early signs of that and you can see the confidence flowing through the restaurants and through the teams.
So clearly for a turnaround you want sustained growth.
And we have slowed by delivered one quarter.
So this is one data point but the steps that we have taken to get to here are steps they are going to continue to keep supporting our business going forward.
And one of the opportunities you mentioned Keith certainly is as you know we are only about 50% re-imaged in the U.S.
And so there is certainly opportunity going forward to more modernized that asset base in the U.S.
and make sure that we have got the right facilities to bring in the customers that we want through on the cash.
Next question is from David Tarantino of Robert W Baird.
Hi good morning.
Steve I have a question or maybe a clarification on how you are thinking about the improvement you have seen in the U.S.
business so far.
And I guess specifically on the Q3 improvement as it seems like it got better as the quarter progressed.
Do you think that was more about the new product news that you had or the structural improvements you are making in the restaurants with respect to operations? And then maybe as part of your answer to that if you could touch on what the metrics look like on feed of service now that you simplified the drive through menu? Yes.
I think there are number of ingredients that are beginning to come together.
If you remember from the past the U.S.
undertook a fairly significant structural change itself.
Now about a year ago where we eliminated and they are liberated a little more entrepreneurial spirit into the regions that takes time to settle down.
You can’t just hit your stride straightaway.
So I think as the regions and the teams in the regions begin to find their feet as it were that helps.
I don’t want to underestimate just the investments we are making in food quality.
The investments that consumers care about such as the announcement to go to free range eggs for example such as the quality cues that you deliver with a buttermilk chicken.
I mean that is getting strong.
But underpinning it and I will never ever move away from this any market that’s successful around the world is because they are focusing on the day-to-day operation and just delivering at that moment of truth for the customer.
That is what McDonald’s is all about.
What we are seeing with speed of service? Well actually we are seeing greater improvement in the accuracy.
So accuracy is probably the strongest metric improvement we are getting which on the basis that about 70% of the business goes to the drive-through.
Clearly accuracy is particularly important.
But we begin to see a few seconds being shaved our average service times as we simplify the menu and sharpening up the operations but it’s early days and we have got – there is a lot more progress we want to make I have got to say that.
Next question is from John Glass of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
My question has to do with the new operating segments particularly outside the United States can you – on two items.
Can you talk about is this what the cost savings opportunities you are discovering are? It looks like G&amp;A in many of those segments are lower but maybe you are just picking it up on the corporate or you are actually finding real opportunities to consolidate some of those into the new structure? And from an operating standpoint given your first quarter of operating into these different segments are there examples of where you are operating the restaurants differently because different leaderships looking at these markets differently or is that too early to really say? Alright.
I will start with the cost item and I will let Steve talk about kind of the leadership and running the markets differently.
Couple of things going on here.
One you may have seen and it may have been a little confusing but we tried to explain one of the things that’s gone on is we are moving a little bit from a very decentralized structure to one that centralizes certain non-customer facing functions and activities.
So along with that some costs that historically were managed at a segment level now are being managed or will be managed at a central corporate level.
So some of the costs that were reflected last year in the segments are now in corporate about $30 million of those in total of those costs.
That doesn’t impact consolidated or total G&amp;A.
That’s more of just a reallocation.
At the same time we obviously talked about saving real consolidated G&amp;A.
And as I said we are making progress on that and we will give a further update on those activities and the investor meeting in November.
And John I will just talk about if you like the operating segments and just the way the leadership teams are thinking.
And we will certainly give more flavor to this in our investor meeting.
But if I would just to take the lead market as an example we have got the five major countries that contribute to the lead markets.
They are overseen by a team of just three people.
Now these are three very senior highly talented individuals.
But the decision making – and the feasibility into those five markets is so much clearer because we have removed the layers that tend to just obscure what’s going on.
So if those three leaders can see something work in Australia.
Our ability to share that with the Canadians whether it’s the UK German France team and vice versa obviously it’s far clearer.
So the speed of the decision making visibility into what’s working visibility to what’s not working and just sharing that knowledge and getting to market quicker with things that work we are already seeing the benefits of that.
And I think that’s incredibly encouraging because we have always had pockets of excellence.
I want fewer pockets of excellence I want a broader base excellence so I believe this structure will help you deliver that.
Next question is from Jeff Farmer of Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Sorry if I missed the question I am actually multitasking myself.
But given the importance of a national price pointed value platform that you guys have discussed in the past can you walk us through the steps you could take to potentially make that happen.
I guess what I mean by that is any potential timeline for formulation of the menu testing of that menu and then assuming you are happy with the results potentially how quickly should we see a broad based national price pointed value platform hit the U.S? Yes.
So I mean the process that I am showing you a fairly familiar here in the U.S.
is somewhat unique compared to other markets around the world because it’s by nature a more complex and diverse market side here in the U.S.
We are at the stage now where driven by insights we have created a number of potential concepts.
Some of those are in test already but they are being discussed and being aborted on for approvals and discussed by the operators now.
So the national teams have had more rigor around it and challenged it and have come up with really strong could be strong compelling.
The operators discussing that and they will make the right decision because the most important piece is alignment.
And we have got great alignment now as a result of all-day breakfast.
And that is – that’s part of the magic ingredient that McDonald’s here in the U.S.
and the alignment with the owner operators.
And I know that doing the right thing working through it and certainly into next year will be a line – there will be something that we believe will be competitive from a customer perspective.
Next question is from Howard Penney at Hedgeye.
Hi.
Thank you so much for taking my questions.
Steve you used the phrase net simplification a couple of times I think in your prepared remarks.
I was wondering if you could explain that term I know you have talked about simplification before but what does net simplification mean and how much more is there to go? Yes.
I would tell you Howard and thank you for the question because I have strong conviction of around simplifying our restaurant operations because I believe the customer is the ultimate beneficiary.
And then when we do talk about doing something like an all-day breakfast people scratching their head and say well hold on a minute.
You told about simplification but now you are adding.
So when I talk about net.
I am saying we go t to take more complexity out through our decision -making that we ever put in so that’s where one kind of – my language of net simplification works.
So if we are not adding any new SKUs into the restaurant for breakfast because all the ingredients are already there.
They are in the chillers they are in the freezers the equipment is already in place.
So yes there is the operational shift running.
There is an operational complexity but not an ingredient complexity.
In the meantime around the country we have – the U.S.
team has been very rigorous in their analytics on this and helping provide each and every color with a tool that helps them assess operational complexity versus contribution to product mix and margin.
And then as a final screen which is around the brand value.
So that’s helps – have actual detailed insight and rigor around supporting the costs taking items off.
So on average right I think you need at the start of the year we removed around 7 items from the menu.
It’s probably at leased another seven if not more on average across the comps around the country now.
And I know they are continuing on this path.
And as we offer more abilities to customize and personalize food going forward that may give us another opportunity to actually take further items on.
So I hope that makes sense.
The trouble saying simplification is definitely whenever you do [indiscernible] say on a hold a minute and making more complex.
We are not going to be static.
We are going to be energetic.
We will innovate.
We will have new products.
It’s fun and that’s what customers want.
We have got to make sure that we take more than that out of the restaurant complexity.
So I hope that makes a little more sense.
Next question is from Andrew Charles at Cowen.
Thank you.
Just on the improved order accuracy in the U.S.
how do you plan to sustain this improvement as customization and personalization will become increasingly component of the experience as of the case in Australia obviously digital initiatives can be a big help but any other factors that we should be thinking about? Thanks.
Yes.
I think two-pronged again just from the day-to-day operation with our teams in the field it’s around trading.
And the training that was rolled out across of the U.S.
which was actually was an operator lead initiative initially was around something called ask us teller.
The way that we reconfigured our own internal procedures of how we take the orders confirm the orders and then present the orders.
And that has had a positive notable benefit in our accuracy.
As we go forward the more of that heavy lifting that we can get technology to do and the greater our accuracy will become.
So whether it’s ordering through apps whether it’s ordering it through self-order kiosks that we see elsewhere around the world technology can certainly help us with putting the customer in charge of the ordering process and allowing technology to do the heavy lifting and then we can just prepare the food and serve it in a friendly way so two pronged.
We will never get away from day-to-day training.
But secondly we are working hard on the technology to help support this.
We have time for one more question.
Next in the queue is Jeff Bernstein from Barclays.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Actually just two follow-ups one on the all-day breakfast I know there has been lots of questions on the topic I am just wondering being that you had at least some tests for a while was there any color in terms of what type of lift you might have seen in test market or maybe what that mix has gone to in that test market.
And the other question was just on – you mentioned you had commodity costs.
So it sounds like beef isn’t that onerous and I think you said the overall basket was only up 1% this past quarter.
I am just wondering what your thoughts are as we look ahead and whether that could actually – do you think qualitatively that would impact McDonald’s or maybe the industry as you think about promotions and discounting and your new value platform potentially? Okay.
I will take the first one Jeff.
So I am a fairly resilient guy.
I won’t get worn down by the same question kind of asked different direction.
But I appreciate the interest.
And of course we are as well.
What I would say is the test markets gave us that kind of – that curve of initial launch volumes and then the settling down sustaining because that being trade to the business case that then got the buying from the broader operating community.
So we are confident in the kind of the curve we expect to see of the contribution of all-day breakfast.
We are encouraged that it’s 30 days.
We are sitting here today 15 or 16 days in.
And I can tell you that the unity of the system around this and the responsible customers which is the important piece is very positive.
We will get share a bit more in November obviously.
Totally understand the interest in it.
But it’s just too early.
It just wouldn’t be fair to give a read on it right now.
And then related to the commodity costs in the U.S.
yes we said it was up about 1% primarily beef costs not a lot of commodity pressure on the other commodities in the third quarter.
Going forward again what the rest of the outlook stuff since it’s all interconnected we will provide an update at our upcoming investor meeting related to kind of how things look in the future.
We are near the top of the hour.
So I will turn it over to Steve who has a few closing comments.
Yes.
Thank you Chris.
And again thanks for everyone for joining us this morning.
In closing I want to emphasize our commitment across of the entire system to consistently running great restaurants to give our customers even more reasons to dine at McDonald’s.
We are focusing on executing fewer bigger initiatives that will ultimately deliver better experience for our guests around the areas that matter most to the great-tasting food fast friendly service contemporary restaurant experience all at the value of McDonald’s.
The progress we have made in a short amount of time gives me confidence that we are making the right moves to turnaround our business and reposition McDonald’s as a modern progressive burger company.
Thanks to all of you and have a great day.
And this concludes McDonald’s Corporation investor conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to McDonald’s January 25 2016 Investor Conference Call.
At the request of McDonald’s Corporation this conference is being recorded.
Following today’s presentation there will be a question-and-answer session for investors.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Stent Vice President of Investor Relations from McDonald’s Corporation.
Mr.
Stent you may begin.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us.
With me on the call are President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Easterbrook and Chief Financial Officer Kevin Ozan.
Today’s conference call is being webcast live and recorded for replay by webcast.
Before I turn it over to Steve I want to remind everyone that the forward-looking statements in our earnings release and 8-K filing also apply to our comments.
Both documents are available on www.investor.mcdonalds.com as are reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on today’s call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
And now I would like to turn it over to Steve.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
We begin 2016 in a much better place than we were 12 months ago.
Today we are more aligned to the system franchisee cash flows and our major markets are improving and we have a strong commitment to executing our turnaround plan.
Our near term priorities are clear.
Our turnaround plan is the first step to fortifying the fundamentals of our business and restarting growth.
It’s grounded in running great restaurants driving operating growth creating brand excitement and enhancing financial value.
These actions ultimately position us to strengthen and grow as a more competitive and more modern business.
We’ll build on this foundation as we position McDonald’s for long term growth that would drive shareholder value in 2016 and beyond.
Different markets are in different stages of the turnaround.
The U.S; our largest market is currently in the trajectory change phase.
While we are pleased with the recent positive momentum in the U.S.
it will take at least six more months of posted comparable sales and guest count growth to progress through the sustained and prolonged growth phases of our turnaround.
I am confident in the actions we are taking and attraction is beginning to take hold.
Most importantly customers are noticing a difference.
Our customer feedback systems are showing improvements in many important aspects of the customer visit including food quality order accuracy speed and friendliness.
In many ways 2015 was a year of two halves.
The first half of the year our performance fell short of expectations as I stepped into my role my priority was to objectively assess our business diagnose our opportunities and develop a leaner organizational structure.
The second half of the year was about execution.
The new operating structure that went into effect on July 1 sharpened our focus through a great accountability and removed distractions and bureaucracy to speed up decisions and increase our ability to move winning tactics quickly across markets.
As markets adjusted to how they think and operate we began to get traction ending the year on an upwards trajectory.
Comparable sales were up 5% for the full quarter up 1.5% for the full year.
Operating income was up 16% for the quarter and earnings per share increased 26% both in constant currencies.
Various current employer items outside our normal operations impacted earnings comparisons.
Kevin will share more details.
Excluding these items earnings per share would have been up 10% for the quarter in constant currencies.
Now let’s turn to segment performance.
The U.S.
remains fundamental to our turnaround given a significant contribution to consolidated results.
U.S.
comparable sales increased 5.7% for the full quarter marking the best quarter in nearly four years.
For the full year comparable sales grew 50 basis points an encouraging change in trends after two years of declines.
While we’ve seen recent improvements in comparable guest counts they remain negative for the full year.
We need to do even more to increase the frequency of visits from our loyal customers and win back customers we’ve lost.
Strong partnership with franchisees as we execute our business building initiatives has resulted in growth in restaurant level cash flows for both the quarter and the year.
This is just one more indication of the progress we are making.
Our formula for success in the U.S.
consistent with many other markets a focus on operational excellence coupled with relevant menu news all supported by strong alignment with franchisees.
The foundational steps we took to enhance menu quality simplify restaurant operations and offer even more convenience to customers led to a palpable shift in momentum in the third quarter.
All Day Breakfast fills on this momentum in the fourth quarter exceeding internal expectations during the launch phase.
It’s driving incremental business.
Many customers who otherwise would have gone elsewhere are coming to McDonald's to enjoy some of their favorite breakfast items like our Egg McMuffin and Hash Browns at lunch and throughout the rest of the day.
At the same time existing customers are adding breakfast entrees to their regular orders boosting sales and average check.
In addition to benefitting top and bottom line growth all-day breakfast positions us to regain market share we’ve given up in recent years.
Infact since the launch of all-day breakfast we’ve experienced positive weekly comparable sales gaps relative to our QSR sandwich competitors and we ended the quarter with a positive gap for 2.9%.
Another priority in the U.S.
is the establishment of a consistent national value offering.
We began testing McPick 2 earlier this month.
This value offer gives customers the flexibility to bundle their choice of two items at a compelling price points.
Whilst it’s still early the offer appears to be resonating with customers.
We’ll continue to list them and apply what we are learning as we move towards a more permanent national platform later this year to compliment the ongoing regional efforts.
I’d also be remiss if I didn’t mention that the U.S.
and several other large markets also benefitted from mild weather in the quarter.
Let’s now turn to the international lead segment which continues to operate from a position of strength.
Full quarter comparable sales increased 4.2% and comparable sales were up 3.4% for the year.
Strong full quarter comparable sales marked the U.K.’s 39th consecutive quarter of growth as the market outperformed both the competition and the wider retail sector.
Performance was driven by a number of customer oriented office.
Successful promotions featuring premium products like the new Big Flavour Wraps and the Chicken Legends drove growth and average check.
The strong focus on our core menu items continued to elevate customer perceptions around quality and steady progress towards our experience of the future continues.
About a quarter of the U.K’s restaurants are being converted and plans are in place to do more throughout 2016.
These restaurants offer modern in-store service platforms such as self-order kiosks digital merchandising and customized order pick up ways.
We recently tested table service and based on customers’ favorable reaction; we plan to roll out across nearly all converted restaurants in 2016.
Australia also delivered a strong quarter of comparable sales despite lapping its best quarter in 2014.
The market-wide deployment of experience of the future is driving incremental business.
Customers were enjoying conveniences such as self-order kiosks and table service and taking advantage of the opportunity to customize their entrees to satisfy individual tastes.
Australia continues to fuel future growth by capitalizing on wins in other markets.
Most recently it’s taken a chapter out of the U.S.
playbook testing all-day breakfast in 300 restaurants; it plans to go national later this quarter.
Australia’s ability to quickly scale the successful initiative from the U.S.
highlights one of the many ways our new segment operating structure is creating a more nimble McDonald's.
In Canada balanced growth across all-day parts drove another quarter with strong comparable sales.
Engaging marketing campaigns including monopoly festive food events and the successful free copy promotion resonated strongly with customers.
At the same time the market continues to make progress towards its version of experiencing the future.
More than 175 restaurants are being converted with a significant number of additional conversions flattened in 2016.
In Germany and France full quarter comparable sales were relatively flat.
Germany’s successful monopoly promotion featuring premium products along with our focus on add-on items help drive average check in a highly competitive environment.
Value remains a critical priority in Germany.
In the coming weeks we launch an integrated value strategy across our menu to strengthen our appeal to value conscious consumers.
In France the macro environment remains challenging.
The informally eating out market recorded its fifth consecutive year of decline.
On top of the lagging economy and dampened consumer purchasing power the November terrorist attack negatively impacted the entire eating out industry.
We have seen this in Paris and in other cities throughout Europe.
Despite these headwinds our brand remains strong in France.
Successful monopoly promotions along with the introduction of new premium products are increasing average check.
At the same time we are giving customers more options across lower tiers of our menu.
The new items added to our Petit Plaisir line and the extension of McFirst into other proteins including fish.
We are working to become even more accessible to customers as we continue to open new restaurants including five new airport sites that were part of a deal we recently closed with Aeroport de Paris.
Turning to the high growth segment full quarter comparable sales increased 3% and the comparable sales grew up 1.8% for the year.
China’s full quarter comparable sales increased 4%.
Successful execution of key initiatives around value convenience and breakfast are driving market share increases in a flat IEO environment.
Despite recent external challenges we remain confident in the potential of this important market and in the strategies we have in place to expand the brand even further.
Infact we plan to open more than 250 restaurants in China in 2016 the highest of any of our markets.
In Russia strong comparable sales in the fourth quarter reflected ongoing recovery of brand trust.
However results may volatile moving forward giving continuing macro economic uncertainties and decreased consumer purchasing power.
One additional market I’d like to highlight is Japan where comparable sales increased 1.6% in the fourth quarter.
Results were partly driven by comparisons to last year’s supplier issue even so this marked Japan’s best quarterly performance in nearly four years.
Same is diligently executing its revitalizing plan as they work to strengthen the brands appeal to customers.
Our consolidated performance reflects the meaningful progress we have made to return critical markets to sustainable revenue and income growth.
Although some of our larger markets face challenging headwinds as we enter 2016 we expect continued positive topline momentum across all segments.
We are focused on what we can control and committed to elevating every aspect what the customer experience.
This is about running great restaurants and our entire system is rallying around this essential imperative every day.
The steps we’ve taken have driven notable improvements in many larger markets but there’s more work to done.
2016 will be about continuing to execute our turnaround plans we’ll concentrate on fortifying the fundamentals of our business as we deliver what people want and expect from McDonald's today while establishing the foundation for future growth.
Thanks everyone.
And now I’ll turn it over to Kevin.
Thanks Steve and hello everyone.
As Steve mentioned the strategic actions we took in 2015 were critical to restoring momentum in our business and charting our path forward.
Fourth quarter played a key role in both areas.
Today I’d like to discuss the drivers of our fourth quarter results review our outlook for 2016 and provide an update on the progress we’ve made on financial decisions announced in November.
Let’s start with the look at fourth quarter results.
As Steve indicated we delivered solid comparable sales and operating income growth for the quarter.
The increase in fourth quarter operating income reflects the benefit of positive comparable sales across all segments a testament to the early impact of our turnaround efforts.
Fourth quarter results also reflected various current and prior year items outside of our normal operations.
Relative to the prior year these items included comparison against results which were negatively impacted by the China supplier issue and an increase in our tax reserves.
In the current year these items included a gain of $135 million from the sale of a U.S.
restaurant property and asset impairment charges of about $70 million in conjunction with our global refranchising efforts.
Excluding the impact of these current and prior year items fourth quarter earnings per share would have increased $0.13 or 10% in constant currencies.
Topline performance continues to have the biggest impact on our margins and its one of the best indicators of the strength of our underlying business.
With more than 80% of our global restaurants franchised the largest driver of operating income continues to be our franchise margins which totaled $1.9 billion a 9% increase in constant currencies for the quarter.
The franchise margin percent increased 50 basis points to 82% driven primarily by the solid comparable sales in the U.S.
and international lead markets.
Global company operated margin dollars increased 8% in constant currencies just $612 million for the quarter.
While the company operated margin percent increased to 80 basis points to 15.2%.
Comparison against challenging prior year results in the high growth and foundational segments accounted for the majority of the margin improvement for the quarter.
Partly offsetting these margin gains were higher incremental labor costs in the U.S.
reflecting the ongoing impact from our decision earlier in the year to increase crew wages and benefits.
These costs along with minimum wage increase have mandated by several states during the year negatively impacted fourth quarter U.S.
margins by about 350 basis points consistent with our expectations.
Solid comparable sales growth and favorable commodity cost helped minimize the impact of this labor pressure.
For the quarter U.S.
commodity costs decreased about 1% primarily due to lower beef cost.
Looking ahead U.S.
Company operated margins for the first half of 2016 will continue to be impacted by labor pressures of a similar magnitude in both first and second quarters.
To offset some of this inflationary pressure our U.S.
fourth quarter pricing year-over-year was up over 2% placing our full year pricing below food away from home inflation of around 2.5%.
2016 food away from home inflation is projected to be between 2.5% and 3.5%.
Commodity costs for the international lead markets segment were up about 1% in the quarter.
While price increases vary by market year-over-year increases for these markets averaged 1% to 3%.
Looking ahead to full year 2016 commodity costs for the international lead segment are expected to be relatively flat while U.S.
commodities are expected to decline 1% to 2%.
G&amp;A for the fourth quarter totaled $675 million up 7% in constant currencies due to higher incentive-based compensation versus the prior year.
Excluding incentive based compensation G&amp;A for the quarter decreased to as expected.
For the full year of 2016 G&amp;A is expected to decrease about 1% to 2% in constant currencies.
We expect G&amp;A increases in the second and third quarters due to our worldwide convention in April and the summer Olympics in August.
Foreign currencies negatively impacted fourth quarter EPS by $0.11 and the full year by $0.50.
At current exchange rates there will be less pressure in 2016 with an expected negative impact on first quarter of $0.04 to $0.06 and full year of $0.18 to $0.20.
As always please take this as directional guidance only because rates will change as we move throughout the year.
Now I’d like to provide an update on the progress we made in 2015 and our financial decisions announced in November around G&amp;A refranchising and our capital structure.
Starting with our G&amp;A spend.
In November we disclose our net annual G&amp;A savings target of $500 million from our G&amp;A base of $2.6 billion at the beginning of 2015.
This target excludes the impact of foreign currency changes.
We expect to realize $150 million in savings by the end of 2016 with about half of these savings already achieved in 2015.
We anticipate completing the vast majority of the remaining $350 million in savings by the end of 2017.
Developing our ownership strategy is also a fundamental component of our turnaround efforts and the catalyst for our decision to refranchise about 4000 restaurants by the end of 2018.
While our refranchising targets implies approximately 1000 restaurants per year we expect variability around this average within a given year as we work to balance the necessary time needed to select the best franchisees with our desire to execute our refranchising plans in an expedient manner.
During 2015 we refranchised about 470 restaurants and we are currently making progress towards completing the sale of two international markets to developmental licensees that will include the refranchising of over 400 restaurants.
As part of our evaluation of ownership strategies around the world we have been reviewing our ownership levels in all markets.
In conjunction with this effort we are exploring the sale of a portion of our ownership in McDonald's Japan if we identify a strategic investor who could help advance Japan’s turnaround efforts and unlock our growth potential with a view of enhancing value for all stakeholders.
We are in the early stages of the process and taking a thoughtful approach.
We have an experienced and talented management team and a strong group of franchisees all of whom are committed to enhancing our brand and supporting our turnaround in Japan with the Japanese consumer in mind.
Right now we’re focus on exploring the viability of finding the appropriate strategic investor.
We are confident that whatever may transpire with our ownership McDonald’s Corporation and McDonald’s Japan will continue to have a franchise or franchisee relationship intended to promote McDonald’s brand and business in Japan.
We remain confident in the McDonald’s Japan business for the long term and their commitment to revitalizing the brand in Japan.
In connection with executing against our refranchising and G&amp;A targets.
During 2016 we may incur incremental strategic charges associated with asset dispositions and restructuring.
In November we also committed to optimizing our capital structure.
One month later we added $6 billion of debt to our balance with an average tenure of over 15 years and an average coupon of 3.8%.
We will likely have further debt additions during 2016 as we expect to return a total of about $30 billion to shareholders for the three-year period ending 2016.
For the three years ended 2015 we return $15.8 billion to shareholders leaving about $14 billion in combined dividends and share repurchase to be completed in 2016.
Collectively our refranchising efforts G&amp;A management and capital structure optimization will contribute to our goal of enhancing long-term financial value for our system and our shareholders.
In addition to moving forward on the financial decisions we’re maintaining our balanced and measured approach of investing in our business to drive future growth.
For 2016 we expect capital expenditures of approximately $2 billion split fairly evenly between opening about a 1 000 new restaurants and reinvesting in existing restaurants.
The majority of our new store capital is earmarked for the international lead and high growth markets while roughly half of our investment capital will be devoted to U.S.
restaurants.
As we begin the New Year we’re encouraged by recent results.
However our financial performance in the coming year is not likely to be linear.
As we move through 2016 we expect some variability in our quarterly results due to uneven prior year comparisons and some headwinds that exist including macroeconomic issues in some of our high growth market and challenging quest counts in the U.S.
Germany and France.
Generating sustained positive guest traffic in these markets and around the world remains the top priority for 2016.
We also anticipate limited pricing power in several of our markets as a relatively benign commodity outlook and low inflation could impact our ability to increase menu board prices.
In closing we begin 2016 in a stronger position.
Positive top and bottom line momentum across all segments and greater alignment with franchisees around our near-term path forward.
We are committed to executing our turnaround plan which starts with the diligent execution of operating great restaurants on a daily basis.
At the same time we remained confident in our ability to execute against our financial decisions and evolve to a leaner more heavily franchise business that generates long term value for our shareholders.
Thanks.
Now I’ll turn it over to Chris to begin our Q&amp;A Thanks Kevin.
We will now the call for analyst and investor questions.
[Operator Instructions] To get as many people as possible the opportunity to ask questions please limit yourself to one question.
We’ll come back to you for follow-up questions as time allows.
The first question is from Andrew Charles at Cowen &amp; Company.
Great.
Thanks.
Mike or if you're on the line Steve as well could you talk about the decision to run the January and February value platform at $2 as it seemed most quick-service sandwich operators are running promos in the $4 to $6 range prior to the introduction? As well as the margin profile of what McPick 2 look to looks like as well? Yes.
There is no Mike here at the moment so Steve here.
So I’ll try on for this one for you Andrew.
Yes.
So we launched on 4th of January we know that around 25% of our customers are value conscious and that’s value at a number of price points but certainly at the entry level.
And we like the construct of McPick 2.
It’s very early days.
There is no like regular trading information that we can particular share right now but we know that the choice and the flexibility that we offer with two items at that compelling price point is attractive.
As you say others have chosen a different price point to go in and bundled more items into it.
We think the choosing two out of four items we have in that menu gives that that right balance between its simple its easy for the customer that gives them the choice and flexibility and through the quarter of handful weeks we’re certainly read the consumer response to it we analyze the business results of it and can continue to work on developing the right value platform for us on an ongoing basis.
The lead item on it is the double cheeseburger.
That sold well but also the mozzarella sticks are going down really really well and it’s a great add-on item.
So it’s an incremental profit driver if you like both within the McPick 2 but also it’s not an ultimately same.
Next question is from Brian Bittner of Oppenheimer.
Thank you very much.
You think about the outperformance that you saw against the industry in the fourth quarter of almost 300 basis points.
Do you see this trend is a path in the fourth quarter maybe driven by the euphoria of all expected to settle in it a more moderate outperformance trend? Or do you think -- see this as something in collaboration with all your initiatives that something that’s somewhat sustainable against you peers? Well certainly the idea of outperforming is something we want to maintain.
We entered the quarter with good momentum in our business clearly that was accelerated through the fourth quarter.
And as we’ve said all-day breakfast was a primarily driver of that but not the sole driver so it exceeded our launch expectations the period of time for it had exceeded our launch expectation it was also little longer that we had projected but we do expected to settle down.
But and that’s why we’re working on a number of other initiatives in the business to follow that up so this is not – we don’t want this to be a single initiative turnaround plan so the continued investment in food quality that could be the development of this value platform.
And as we continue to reinvest in the fabric of our restaurant we’re confident the in-store experience will continue to improve.
The operation improvements we’re seeing to the drive-through old records in particular we see its paying dividends early days after launching a number of initiatives around people that beginning to see our start turnover decrease quite notable as well which we believe helps us deliver a better days experience.
So there’s a number of dimensions to it all-day breakfast is understandable a more of the headline grab up it will settle down a little from its launch space but we believe the building is other platforms of growth on top of that will keep us competitive in the marketplace in taking share.
Next question is from Karen Short of Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Just following on that question I was just curious in terms of the layers of momentum you didn’t even really given an update on the app.
And then I also wondering if you could give a little update on the U.S.
like guest experience in the future I think you were at 130 units in November? Thanks.
Hi Karen.
Its still early days for us but I mean for us its – what we can offer in the future is exciting.
What we’re actually delivering now is really just a start so we only really launch the app here in the U.S.
at the end of the third quarter last year.
But within three months we had over 7 million downloads which I think just start signal the magnitude that we can build to as we develop office and functionality way beyond the basic.
At the moment its largely offer base we’re seeing those downloads being activated by customers and redeeming the offers in the restaurants.
So we believe its driving behavior.
We’re able to follow consumer behavior easy so we can read the data from it.
But certainly as we build the capability of the app we think it’s going to increase the compelling and the growth engine.
I would say that.
For the first time here at McDonald’s we have build in a trading increase a sale an incremental sale expectations based on our digital platform.
So little modest in 2016 but we’re actually contributing to the business growth and being a platform this is going to deliver for many years to come as we can kind of understand our consumer behavior and be more rewarding to them.
With regards to the second piece experience the future.
We have around five markets up and running as you say with about a 130 restaurants.
We’re certainly looking to expand not necessarily those markets but into new markets at a larger scale.
And the U.S.
will again pick some lead regions.
So this is where the regional strength of the U.S.
really comes to the fall.
We got 23 regions here in the U.S.
we’ll be picking two or three of those to really look to accelerate that version here in the U.S.
they experience the future through 2016 and into 2017.
But there would be adopting a slightly different approach in those three regions so it can actually learn in the market here what truly resonates the customers what the business results are and the future potential.
So and also given on this structure now we’re learning so rapidly from the way that Australian has build their business kind of the building there as U.K.
France and particular theirs but we are rich in inside which is helping each other makes smarter decisions and shorten the time line so we’re certainly share more in a moment the moment the majority of our growth we’re building into the U.S.
performance through 2016 is through continuing to deliver against the basics of our turnaround plan.
Next question is from David Tarantino of Robert W Baird.
Hi.
Good morning.
My question is on the U.S.
comps momentum you saw in the fourth quarter which was very impressive I was wondering Steve if you help to sort of dissect what some of the drivers were in particular if you could help to quantify what you think to live from all-day breakfast might have been during the quarter and also the weather impact and then that’s question number and then as a follow-up perhaps if you could talk about some of the structural improvements you’re seeing what driver-through simplification if you’re starting to see some progress and to be a service there? Thanks.
Yes.
Thanks David.
We don’t want to give specifics on the respect drivers.
But the pace that I want to make sure we don’t lose it but we were building momentum heading into the quarter and heading into the launch of all-day breakfast and I won’t necessarily do a full laundry list of the work that team have done but certainly around the fundamentals delivering a better high quality food experience day and day out.
And you know you heard me talk about the Devils is in the detail always around toasting of the buns and searing of the beef and when you ally that with investing in the types of quality investment that customers care about structures; one of the antibiotics move we made in the poultry supply chain or the announcement that we on our journey is going to cage-free eggs.
That just creates a buzz and customers know that you care about the same things that they care about and they just respond with their business.
All-day breakfast was clearly the primary driver of the quarter.
We knew it would be -- we focus the restaurants both operationally marketing and merchandizing on that.
As I say through the launch base we help contribute materially for the quarter absolutely no doubt.
We hit peaks.
We exceeded the self contribution that we had projected and as I say it lasted longer through than a typical launch period does.
But inevitably a settle down as we introduce other initiatives in the restaurants through 2016.
the weather was no simple but not material but I just though it was approximately and transparent to reference it because it did give us a positive contribution not just in the U.S.
but in many of our major markets around the world that did provide a helpful tailwinds but I thought it would fair to recognize and just acknowledge.
In terms of the drive-though in particular certainly the streamlines menu boards have made life easier for our customers and made life easier for managers and crew in the restaurants .So that experience has simplified and help speed things up.
Alongside the greatest barrier to the overall service experience in the drive-through we’ve identified this order accuracy so the team the operational teams have been working really on initiative – again I won’t go into the details we could ask – it just the way that we the order experience to the customer where we can just confirm twice over that we capture the order right and then we’re presenting exactly the right order to the customers before they drive off.
And we’re finding that as noticeably improved well accuracy which in turns improve speed and clearly customer satisfaction so we got plenty more to do.
We’re working through and continue to challenge the menu and if there is further simplification areas there but simplification goes way beyond that.
There’s has been through packaging through merchandizing through marketing where we can help the restaurants teams by taking work load of them taking focus on the fundamentals of what they want for serving customers.
Next question is from David Palmer of RBC.
Thanks.
In the last turnaround but one of the early 2000s clearly there’s a focus or refocus on service execution you’re just touching on some of that so if you have any numbers on customer satisfaction today or in future quarters I think that will be really helpful to for people to get their head around the sustainability of return that maybe starting with all-day breakfast trial and bringing back those lapsed users.
On the premium platform innovation front you feel like you’re using this window perhaps being created by all-day breakfast to give yourself a pace of testing that is greater and in fact that you’re building that pipeline for 2017 and beyond and if so how is that looking and what giving your confidence there? Thanks.
Hi David.
So in terms of customer satisfaction obviously we got a number of different ways that we can monitor customer’s satisfaction and we have one or two different systems around the world.
There is not pay consistent measure as we speak.
But we move and transition to a new customer satisfaction measure here which we call the Voice which is actually we’re gather multiple number of a customer feedbacks compared to where we were previously so I didn’t explain that very well.
We’re gathering a lot more consumer feedback than we ever have done is the better way of saying is certainly we’re seeing overall satisfaction improving both in drive through and install and we’re certainly seeing order accuracy in the drive through.
We’re around – the actually satisfaction on speed in improving our speed time haven’t improved as much as satisfaction has done so we want to work operationally to physically speed up as service experience but the same time customers are reporting a greater satisfaction with the speed which is very encouraging.
So that means the overall experience is working for them.
In terms of the premiums yes absolutely as you gather momentum and you start to get these growth drivers that you can layer upon each other it means you can raised ahead and look a little further in the way you plan and develop the business.
So on the premium side and by the way each market doesn’t have to work in isolation.
So we have a number of initiatives around the whether its Create Your Taste in Australia a new premium range of signature burgers in the U.K.
a similar version of that within France for example and we have these sophisticated well executed rollout across those market all of which is helping is inform us that where we had with the experience in the further.
What we do now is customization is important.
We don’t know quite how much customization customers truly wish it like a little bit of flexibility but I don’t need to have complicated so we’re working on that for example  We’re working on the manner in which customers can order those premium burgers a way from the traditional just through the drive-through or at the front counter and that’s where I self order kiosks and potentially you can say where service comes into play.
But again we’re getting a really good read on progress in some of other mature and lead markets and that certainly helping shape and inform the thinking here in the U.S.
So more to come are we using the time to work on developing that platform? Absolutely yes we are.
Next question is from Greg Badishkanian at Citibank.
Q - Greg Badishkanian Great.
Thanks.
Just trying to understand where you’re getting your new customers from which is lifting same-store sales.
You had two big introductions the two for $2 all-day breakfast and do you think you’re gaining – are you gaining those from burgers operators or while QSR to bought a restaurant category and just define each one so I think you might be getting customers for each of those two programs? Hi Greg.
I think we’ve been pretty clear but we go through the revitalize stage of this turnaround the market share that we’re looking to recover and grow is in our more immediate competitive grow.
So that kind of QSR segment.
And then as we strength and then ultimately want to get back to leadership position that we’re aspire to I think that growth will come from broader eye So at the moment the initial momentum we’re seeing typically around the world is coming from QSR some of that is recovering share as we lost as well.
So that’s certainly hardening for us.
I would say potentially one slide difference from that is around all-day breakfast which where we’re capturing customers with really what is a different occasion there.
So -- and that is new to us and McDonald’s.
I think the customers where the incremental business an incremental visits were getting off probably from broader IEO segment but typically our focus on this initial stage turnaround is around winner nearing market and recovering what we’ve lost to getting into a period of outperformance.
Next question is from John Glass of Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
Just related -- somewhat related maybe actually unrelated but one is on the pricing you talked about being cautious on pricing overall all over in the U.S.
I think you said the food away from home inflation was going to run some two plus percent are you saying that you feel good about pricing in the U.S.
given that inflationary level and if they maybe elsewhere and maybe talk about how you think about U.S.
pricing specifically.
And just to clarify the SG&amp;A if you take it down 1% to 2% from 2015 levels its not going to match the 150 million your savings more like 50 billion so is that because you’re not including the operator conference in the Olympics on that calculation that sort of one off or not factored into that 500 million or how do we think about that? Thanks John.
Let me start with the pricing because we think about pricing relatively similarly around the world and that is we look at a whole bunch of factors to influence our pricing that include food inflation GDP growth our internal cost inflation et cetera.
Similar to how the U.S.
will do it.
So for 2015 we said that the U.S.
increase their prices a little over 2% compared to food away from home inflation of around 2.5% and that for 2016 food away from home inflation was expected to be 2.5% to 3.5% so we would continue to think about pricing in a similar way as we’ve been and keep an eye on that food away from home inflation as well as food at home inflation just to make sure that we’re not getting out of whack with that.
Related to the G&amp;A the way we look at it is we saved – I’ll say a little more then half of that $150 million in 2015 which means that we go into 2016 with our base or run rate of those savings built in.
We’ll look at 2016 similarly so while we may not get all of those actual savings realized in 2016 will have it out of our base by the end of 2016 so that as we go into 2017 we’re going in with the base that’s $150 million less than where we started at the 2.6 billion and that’s a net number so that includes the Olympics conventional or the additional cost in there also.
Net question is from Nicole Miller Regan of Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Going back to mobile you said 7 million downloads I believe is that since you launched and how many have redeemed offers and what can you tell us about the profile.
And then just a final thought on mobile I believe if I understood correctly you early said it’s modestly in the guidance and what is giving you that convection to make that comment.
Is this is new customer? Is it a loyal customer that spending more just want are they doing? Thanks.
Can you just repeat just that second part of the question Nicole about something in the balance? Why convictions were including.
Okay.
Okay.
Someone’s explained here.
Right it’s a two point of that question.
So there are number of metrics that we will follow through and we follow closely on a weekly basis daily and weekly basis on the app.
One is clearly the downloads.
Then you want the registration numbers and then you want to see the activity.
So we have 7 million downloads which gives people access to things like restaurant Russian locator nutritional information and the rest.
As I start to share their information get confident with us and clearly then they will start to register and we can then communicate if they no choice of their local restaurant or their preferred restaurant then we can start to localize the offers to them and then we start to see the behavior.
We are seeing higher registration rates than industry norms from those downloads and we’re also then tracking effectively frequency of usage and we’re trying to encourage that with things like loyalty play such as buy any five McCafes of any size and you one free.
So it and you get one free.
So it’s a fairly basic loyalty play just to get people familiar with using it and actively using and keeping it on their phones basically.
The reason we have build a sale build into 2016 is because we have seen the incremental business We’ve have seen the incremental average check of redemptions so when people redeem an offer we’re actually seeing higher average check than we had expected to see so we can see there’s an incremental business driver plus we got other initiatives that we both scale the number of customer and usage but also enhance the overall experience as well which will encourage people to return to that more often and clearly hopefully return to McDonald’s more often.
So we have it really -- we have it week-by-week and month-by-month as a build and we about to clearly update ourselves on whether we hitting those projections but its – it will be a helpful contributed to sales in 2016 and will help guide us around the world beyond to actually derive that return on the investments we’re making in this digital strategy as a home.
Next question is from Joe Buckley of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Like to ask two related questions on plans First with respect to the U.S.
turnaround and sustainability of the U.S.
turnaround can you talk about some of the pipeline of ideas or you mentioned a platforms a couple of time if you could be able to be more specific about how you’re think about product news and innovation to sustained the U.S.
comp and then a little bit longer term you’ve referenced in the past that you would be sharing a longer term strategy at the worldwide on a operating conference in April and probably sharing that with the street sometime thereafter I guess I was curious if that was still the game plan and if you can put any outline or any meet around what we might here? Okay Joe so confidence as we build through 2016 in the U.S.
I mean clearly we’re planning for growth and we have a very robust plan that team has build so that gives us confidence.
We will continue to work the breakfast platform and beverage platform hard.
Anyways its important day part for us and the all-day breakfast is the further growth opportunity which we’re going to continue to work hard through 2016 getting the value platform right will be important to us as well we are taking a very serious look at it and learning from it before we than go into a national and permanent launch base but we feel good about where we’re at in the moments.
You can expect to see as also focus more on our call menu.
You know we are proud of the menu and we believe there is – these are iconic and real popular assets that we believe that we could – we can probably do a better job with it.
We can bring to life and we’ll continue to invest in the ingredients and the food quality and create some fun around that.
You can expect to see.
For to create fun around the brand you will also expect to return to one or two be promotional mechanics we have.
We got opportunities throughout the year to just bring it some variety and some fun around promotional activity shorter term promotional activity just to help provide that balance for the menu.
So I think -- and then with the digital platform layering on top of that we believe we’re building these building a platform that will continue to grow through 2016 but will also take this into 2017 and beyond.
As we develop and better articulate here in the U.S.
our Experience the Future that is something we know the system is excited about we know its creating a lot of energy momentum elsewhere on the world and getting that right and the business model right and actually getting the right elements of that for the customer here in the U.S.
is going to important to us and we’re excited about what we’re going learn in 2016 [ph] because we believe that’s going to contribute to 2017 and beyond.
It sounds the longer terms strategy I guess what we will want to see is we’ve had two quarters of growth in this turnaround so we would certainly be looking to see another quarter or two before we ourselves start to moving the turnaround plan into a longer term growth plan.
What I can’t tell you is that we have a small and senior team looking at developing what that growth plan looks like the elements of it the brand positioning of it and the vision behind it but it’s a small chain that’s working discretely on it because at the moment the entire organization globally is focused on a turnaround.
So whether it’s later in the second quarter or sometime in the third quarter I would say by around the middle of the year when we get confident that it’s the right time to transition from turn around it’s a growth who share that internally and soon after externally.
Next question is from Karen Holthouse of Goldman Sachs.
Hi thank you for taking the question.
Looking at the remodel CapEx going into U.S.
stores can you give us a sense of where the majority of those dollars are going? Is it more going to sort of cleaning up longer tailed stores that maybe haven’t been reinvested in recently or more specific initiatives around kiosks or digital menu boards or something like that? Yes Karen.
For 2016 we said that about half of the reinvestment around the world will be reinvested in the U.S.
That consists of several buckets if you will.
It’s probably four to five hundred reimages in 2016 about 90 rebuilds where we kind of tear down the restaurant and put up a new one.
It also would include capacity enhancements things like putting in side by side drive through as well as our normal maintenance CapEx.
It also would include digital menu boards in substantially all the restaurants in the U.S.
So it consists of several of those components that would kind of comprise the total reinvestment in the U.S.
Next question is from Jeff Farmer of Wells Fargo.
Great thank you.
As the U.S.
same-store sales recovery continues to build momentum how should we be thinking about the pace of a potential restaurant level margin recovery just a little color on that? You guys have obviously given us some color on not only cost of goods sold for 2016 some of the incremental labor pressure that you introduced maybe by through last year but is there anything preventing you from returning to the high teens of the U.S.
restaurant level margins over the next couple of years again big caveat I understand but assuming you guys can continue to deliver some topline momentum can we see these high teens restaurant level margins again in the U.S.? Yes thanks Jeff.
You know as you know when we talk about pretty often margins for us are topline gain.
I mentioned that we’ll have some pressure first and second quarter in 2016 as we kind of round out the additional labor cost that we have from the decision we made to increase wages for our restaurant crew.
But with benign commodity cost relatively reasonable inflation and hopefully from pricing capability it will come down to what kind of comps we are able to achieve to determine whether we can grow margins.
I think what fourth quarter should have shown everyone is even with those labor pressures when we have good comps you know again depending on where commodities are we are able to offset a lot of those pressures.
So it really does come down to continuing to grow comps.
Next question is from Jeff Bernstein of Barclays.
Great thank you very much.
Just a follow-on on that question.
Just wondering how you actually think about the interplay of commodity and labor especially as you look at the offerings going forward.
I mean right now obviously with the commodity down labor up but just wondering is pricing easier this way or would you prefer do it the reverse? I think I think you mentioned from a food stand point where the food away from home is still 2.5% to 3.5% and you are going to be less than that.
But food at home seems like its well below that entirely.
So I’m just wondering how you think about those two buckets being that they are similar in size and you know the concern you might have on even pricing at that 2% plus level.
Thanks.
Yes it’s a good point in that I don’t want to oversimplify how we look at pricing.
We have to look at to your point beyond just food away from home as one piece of information.
Food at home exactly as you mentioned is clearly below food away from home right now.
And so we look at food inflation in total because we need to make sure that kind of home is the competitor and people could be leaving us if you will to eat more at home.
But we have to look at all costs both food and labor to determine pricing and it also comes into play of what our competitors are doing the demographics of where we are so there is a lot of things that go into determining pricing.
I don’t know if I can pick one or another as far as what I’d rather have labor or food be high cost if you will.
Just one point I would add to that Jeff is whilst we will clearly build an assumption into our plans because that’s how we set our plans we don’t make a single pricing decision just once a year we make decisions across the year.
So we can always guage the consumer consumer confidence where our costs are going and where the competitive environment is and do our best clearly to make the right decision.
So it’s -- we have multiple opportunities across the year to reassess and make sure that we are certainly seizing the opportunity but without being -- taking it too far.
We have time for one more question and it will be from Jason West of Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks guys.
Just on the market share number can you give the two components of that you know the McDonald's number and the equivalent calculation and then the industry number that you saw to get to the 29 and then see just big picture on that sort of same store sales trajectory.
You know we’ve been dealing with challenging markets around the world it feels like for several years now and you guys are starting to see momentum despite that but if feels like the volatility and the challenges only can be get worse each year so how does that affect you guys going forward do you think we’re still kind of an environment we’ve been in or have things you know externally maybe gotten a bit worse? Thanks.
Like in terms of the market share takes then we would take across the pretty much the 14 week period but our growth would be at 5.7% in the QSR sandwich segment ex-McDonald's would be 2.8 giving us the differential of 2.9.
So overall growth in the market we were outperforming that clearly.
In terms of around the world we want to be careful that we don’t sound too anxious and create concern around the headwinds and what have you because there is so much of our ability to grow is in our own hands.
And you know we are really focussing on what we can control.
I mean we have noticed and we have a history of being successful in many many countries around the world through strong economic times as well as challenging economics times as long as we do the right thing about the customer.
So overall we are confident heading into this year.
We’ve been through the plan in detail of our largest nine or ten markets and I’m confident they will deliver the growth to a level that we are satisfied and we are challenging ourselves hard on it.
I also want to be pragmatic.
In France in the moment for example it’s tough IEOs decreased for five years in a row.
So if you are going to grow the business you really have to take a significant amount of share in the declining market for that to translate into topline growth.
And to do that you don’t want to free yourself out of your longer term strategy and the brand building they have done.
So I think there are some realities and it is right for us just to be a little cautious about but if I take a look at the collective across the U.S.
across the lead markets and the high growth markets you know we are building plans and certainly on a consolidated basis with an expectation of growing.
So -- but as you will know from the markets even the start of this year volatility just creates a scrappier environment and a little bit of nervousness whether its across investor community and sometimes in certain markets across customers.
So we need to be mindful or sensitive to that you know China is a good example where you know that kind of volatility in the market place just create a little bit of anxiety.
So that’s why we want to reinforce our confidence in that market in growing our core business as well as incremental units and new store of growth.
So we're mindful.
We stay close.
But we remain quietly confident.
We’re at the top of the hour so I’ll turn it over to Steve with a few closing comments.
Thanks Chris.
And again thanks to all of you for joining us this morning.
2015 was a year of change.
We are running McDonald's differently and building on our unique advantages as we strive to become a modern and progressive burger company.
Our fourth quarter results reflect the meaningful progress we’ve made.
And whilst there is more work to be done we are on the right path.
We are focussed on our customers and delivering what matters most to them.
Hot fresh food fast friendly service in a contemporary environment all are the value of McDonald's.
I am confident in our ability to sustain a positive momentum as we continue to execute our turnaround plans into 2016 and I’m excited about our longer term opportunities to strengthen our business and reassert McDonald's as the global leader we know we are.
Thanks and everyone have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!