Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the Company we will open the conference up for question-and-answers following the presentation.
I will now turn the conference over to Ms.
Sally Swartz Investor Relations.
Please go ahead madam.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's results for 2011.
I am Sally Swartz Vice President of Investor Relations.
Moody's released its results for the first quarter of 2011 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Moody's Corporation will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody's Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the act I also direct your attention to the management's discussion and analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statement set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thanks Sally.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining today’s call.
I’ll begin our remarks by summarizing Moody's first quarter 2011 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
I will then speak to recent regulatory developments and finish with comments on our outlook for 2011.
After our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to respond to your questions.
First quarter revenue of $577 million increased 21% over the prior year reflecting strong corporate debt issuance and increased structured finance ratings activity supporting growth in Moody's investor service and continued solid performance for Moody's Analytics.
All reporting units of both MIS and MA grew in the first quarter of 2011 from the same prior year period.
Operating income for the first quarter was $250 million 27% above the prior year period.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.67 an increase of 43% year over year.
We are raising our full-year 2011 EPS guidance to a range of $2.22 to $2.32 from the prior range of $2.12 to $2.22 based on strong first quarter performance.
Our expectations for market conditions for the remainder of the year are generally unchanged from our February guidance.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I’ll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the quarter increased 21% to $577 million.
U.S.
first quarter revenue increased 18% to $301 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 24% to $276 million and represented 48% of Moody's total revenue.
Recurring revenue of $294 million represented 51% of the total compared to 59% in the prior year period.
Looking at each of our businesses Moody's investor service revenue for the quarter was $413 million a 23% increase year over year.
U.S.
revenue was up 22% over the prior year period while outside the U.S.
revenue grew 25% and represented 44% of total ratings revenue.
Global Corporate Financial revenue in the first quarter increased 44% from a year ago to $182 million.
Revenue grew 52% in the U.S.
while outside the U.S.
revenue increased 31% year over year.
Growth was driven by strong issuance activity particularly in the U.S.
and European investment-grade and high-yield markets.
Global Structured finance revenue for the first quarter was $89 million 25% above the prior year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 11% year over year with improved issuance in commercial real estate finance partially offset by declines and asset-backed securities.
Non-U.S.
structured finance revenue rose 39% primarily driven by demand for rating securitization placed with government-sponsored facilities in Europe and increased covered bond issuance.
Global Financial Institution revenue of $77 million increased 1% from the same quarter of 2010 primarily due to higher levels of insurance sector issuance abroad.
U.S.
financial institution revenue declined 2% while non-U.S.
revenue increased 3%.
Global revenue for public project and infrastructure finance business grew by 5% year over year to $64 million.
Revenue declined 10% in the U.S.
reflecting weakness in public and project finance issuance with the expiration of the Build America Bond Program and the municipal budgetary pressures.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 35% primarily driven by growth in infrastructure finance.
And turning now to Moody's Analytics global revenue for Moody's Analytics of $164 million was up 17% from the first quarter of 2010.
U.S.
revenue grew by 9% year over year to $71 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 23% to $93 million and represented 57% of total Analytics revenue.
Globally revenue from research data and analytics of $110 million increased by 5% from the prior year period and represented about 67% of total MA revenue.
We are seeing continued demand for products across our portfolio as conditions in the financial industry improve.
Revenue from risk management software of $40 million grew 19% helped by the early completion of transactions that were expected to be realized later this year.
Due to the variable nature of project timing and the concentration of revenue and a relatively small number of engagements risk management software revenue remained subject to significant short-term volatility.
Professional services revenue increased more than fourfold to $15 million reflecting the acquisition of CSI Global Education in November 2010 as well as much stronger results in the base business.
Turning now to expenses Moody's first quarter expenses were $327 million an increase of 17% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
This increase was primarily due to increased headcount from the prior year period higher accruals for incentive compensation reflecting the stronger 2011 full-year outlook and on-going technology spending.
Moody's reported operating margin for the quarter was 43.3% compared to 41.3% in the first quarter of 2010.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 33.2% compared with 37.2% for the prior year period.
The difference was primarily due to a higher portion of taxable income generated internationally and lower tax jurisdictions and a reduction of U.S.
state income taxes.
Now I’ll provide an update on capital allocation and stock buybacks.
Moody's increased its quarterly dividend on April 26 by 22% to $0.14 per share up from $0.11.5 per share of common stock.
During the first quarter of 2011 Moody's repurchased 4.3 million shares at a total cost of $128 million for an average price of less than $30 per share.
Moody's also issued 1.4 million shares under the employees stock-based compensation plan.
Outstanding shares as of March 31 2011 total 227.8 million shares representing a 4% decline from a year earlier.
As of March 31 2011 Moody's had 1.1 billion of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program.
At quarter end Moody's had 1.2 billion of outstanding debt with $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Cash and cash equivalence was $720 million an increase of $223 million from the prior year period.
Approximately 70% of our cash holdings are maintained outside the U.S.
We remain committed to using our strong cash flow to create value for shareholders while maintaining sufficient liquidity.
We expect to continue to share repurchase at modest levels subject to available cash flow market conditions and other on-going capital allocation decision.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I’ll continue with an update on legislative and regulatory developments.
First in the U.S.
the principal regulatory activities for 2011 affecting Moody's Investor Service will be SEC rule making under the Dodd-Frank Act.
The majority of rules are now expected to be proposed through July 2011 on matters that include reporting of internal controls transparency of ratings performance and references to credit ratings and statutes regulations and rules.
Adoption of the proposed set of rules is expected is during the second half of 2011.
While new rules entail various changes in our rating agency processes and operations and require us  to adapt our business we will not alter our fundamental business objective to provide the highest quality credit opinions research and analysis.
Turning to Europe the transfer of oversight of credit rating agencies from National regulators to newly-established European securities and market authority or ESMA is schedule to be effective July 2011.
We have submitted an application for registration of our EU-based entities and for authorization to endorse our non-European credit ratings so that they qualify for regulatory use by EU regulated entities.
We believe that this positioning will support the efficient flow of capital across national borders and best meet the current needs of all users of credit ratings.
Moody's registration process is expected to be concluded in the second quarter of 2011.
The [inaudible] and commission is also scheduled to propose new rules for the rating agency industry in the third quarter of 2011 regarding matters that include competition business models liability and the use of ratings and regulations.
As regulatory reviews and activity occur in other jurisdictions we will continue advocate for globally-consistent approaches that align with the G20 statements and directives.
I’ll conclude this mornings prepared remarks by discussing our full-year guidance.
Moody’s outlook for 2011 is based on assumptions about many macro-economic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability and business investment spending merger and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the eventual withdrawal of government sponsored economic stabilization initiatives.
There’s an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody’s results for the year may differ materially from our current forecast.
As mentioned earlier we’re revising our EPS guidance upward for the full-year 2011 to a range of $2.22 to $2.32 reflecting strong first quarter performance.
Our expectations for market conditions for the remainder of the year are generally unchanged from our February guidance.
Our full-year outlook assumes foreign currency translation at end-of-quarter exchange rates.
Our revenue expectations for certain areas of change based on conditions specific to those businesses and geographies.
My comments highlight only those components that have been revised and we refer you to our earnings release for a full review of our 2011 guidance.
For Moody's corporation we now expect full-year 2011 revenue to grow in the low double-digit percent range.
We do not expect early strength to continue at levels above our February guidance.
Full-year expenses are now projected to increase in the high-single digit percent range.
At Moody's Investor Service we now expect global revenue growth in the low double-digit percent range.
In the U.S.
we now expect MIS revenue to increase in the mid-to-high single digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is expected to grow in the mid-to-high teens percent range.
Corporate finance revenue is now projected to increase in the high-teens percent range with on-going activity driven by refinancing mergers and acquisitions and other capital needs.
Structured finance revenue is now expected to grow in the mid-single digit percent range while revenue from financial institutions is now expected to increase in the high-single digit percent range.
Public project and infrastructure finance revenue is now projected to grow in the mid-single digit percent range.
For Moody's Analytics our guidance remains unchanged given the variable nature of project timing and the concentration of revenue and a relatively small number of engagements within the risk management software revenue line.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question and answer session are Michele Madelain the President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investor Service and Mark Almeida President of Moody’s Analytics.
We’d be pleased to take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll take our first question from Michael Meltz with JP Morgan.
I have three questions for you.
Ray the pickup in structure in Q1 your guidance would imply a pretty big deceleration in terms of growth in I think absolute dollars throughout the year.
Can you just talk about what was special in Q1 and why that would decelerate? And then secondly on costs Linda the guidance I think – back in February you talked about cost on an absolutely dollar basis ramping kind of lifting each quarter throughout the year.
Is that still expected a kind of smooth step up in expenses?  Yes Michael if you want to take that one first.
Expenses for the first quarter were $320 million and we’re expecting 40-million-ish perhaps on top of that over the course of the year by the time you get to the fourth quarter.
So yes it would ramp in an upward slopping way between now and the end of the fourth quarter.
And with respect to the first quarter structured finance performance Michael you’re correct we do expect the first quarter is going to show higher revenue than we would see for the quarters going forward the rest of the year.
And the improvement in the first quarter was primarily driven by the demand for ratings on securitization in Europe that were being placed with government sponsored facilities.
And so the ratings that were mandated as a result of that applied to ratings that were already outstanding in the market in part and that contributed to the growth in the area.
That has largely been run through the system at this point so we would expect to revert more to a run rate like we had seen in recent quarters.
Okay.
And then the last one and I’ll take Appert’s question here.
Your performance is considerably better than S&amp;P’s this quarter and it’s true in the U.S.
as well as internationally.
Even though you didn’t give the transaction number I assume on the transaction side within ratings.
What are you attributing that to or do you have a thought as to why the gap has widened somewhat?  Michael let me take a shot at it.
We noticed that the 10-Q from [inaudible] is out this morning  Obviously we haven’t had a chance to study it but we have a couple of thoughts on this.
For our first quarter revenue growth for MIS which was up $77 million most of that the lion’s share of that is certainly coming from corporate finance and then the rest from structured.
And we can go through that in a little bit.
The main drivers of the difference over S&amp;P as we see it is we benefit from the fact that the ECB is looking for second ratings and as Ray has spoken about before that increased our structured finance business.
We’d also note that the two companies have different approaches to transaction and recurring revenue.
As you know we’re more tilted toward transaction revenue and that benefits us during a high-volume high-issuance market.
Thirdly our pricing and mix changes were amplified by strong issuance so strong activity in bank loans high yields and other places that are particularly helpful to us.
And we are seeing a continued flow of new rating requests; people looking for ratings for counter-party activities and to provide a safeguard if they’re unable to borrow at attractive rates from their local banks.
So really a bunch of different reasons and I’ll let Ray comment further on that.
Yeah I just would underscore Linda’s comment that these are somewhat speculative on our part as we don’t know exactly what all of the drivers are between ourselves and our competition.
Okay thank you for your time.
And we’ll take our next question from William Bird with Lazard Capital.
Yes just a follow-on to Michael’s question.
You know in particular your growth outside the U.S.
was really substantially higher than S&amp;P about triple the growth rate.
So you mentioned the ECB second rating as one of those factors.
Are there other factors that you think are durable that’s driving that difference?  Yeah we had good growth in speculative-grade ratings in Europe.
I’ve mentioned in some recent quarters that while the speculative-grade market in Europe historically has not been material it has been growing rapidly and is becoming a much more important component.
That may be a source of gain.
We also had strength in international project and infrastructure finance which is a source of gain.
And on the Moody’s Analytics side of the business we actually have a majority of our business outside the U.S.
and that not only benefited from good growth in the base business but we also had the CSI acquisition which contributed to international revenue.
And Ray could you talk a little bit about the ratings pipeline and just kind of what you’re seeing right now in business?  Sure.
It’s as we said a very high level.
We still see generally favorable conditions in the capital markets and we expect those are going to – those conditions are going to continue through the year.
I think the pipeline reflects that across our businesses.
We certainly believe that we have seen pull forward in the corporate sector both investment grade and high yield into the first quarter of the year.
And that pull forward may have a dampening effect on issuance later in the year.
On the other hand we are seeing increased debt financed merger and acquisition activity and a broader set of reasons from issuers for issuing debt including share repurchase business expansion activities.
So the mix of corporate issuance is becoming more diverse and we feel that’s a positive and an offset to the pull forward that we saw in the first quarter.
On the structure and finance side I would characterize the pipeline as being not bad.
As I said we don’t think we’re going to have the first quarter revenue run rate through the rest of the year but we certainly have a reasonable pipeline of business over on that side.
And Linda I was wondering if I could just get the incentive comp accrual for the quarter? Sure.
Our incentive compensation accrual for the first quarter was $29.4 million Bill.
That included about $7.5 million of incentive compensation as a result of our raising our outlook for 2011 taking up our guidance.
We’ve done a little bit better than we had expected.
And what percent of employee cost does that represent?  That’s about 13% of compensation costs.
Great.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffary.
So Ray your comment on structured financing being not bad it seems like maybe this is overly nuanced but it seems like it should change from what you’ve been saying in recent quarters and maybe suggesting that beyond the strength you saw in the first quarter from the stuff in Europe you are seeing some changes in the market.
Is that fair and can you expand on that?  Well I guess Peter it may be as much my expectations leveling out as anything else.
It’s variable.
We had good growth in Europe in the first quarter and as we’ve talked about a lot of this had to do with securitization going to government sponsored enterprises.
But we also had growth in the covered bond area for example and we think that is a more enduring source of growth.
The commercial real estate finance area in the first quarter was good both in the U.S.
and internationally.
CLOs we have – are optimistic about the long-term prospects for CLOs but whether some of these asset categories are going to show good growth in 2011 at this point probably relates not only to regulatory changes that have been put in place but also just the economics in terms of where spreads are and whether it’s the right time for – for example CLOs and certain forms of real estate securitization to come to market.
So economic conditions are going to dictate the timing even though we are optimistic in the longer run about some of these asset classes.
Got it.
So on that front right given the expectations that rates presumably are going up spreads are going to widen can you talk about how that might impact the business then over the next several quarters in the context of rising rates?  Yeah I mean we are – I think our central case if that we do not expect rates to increase significantly in the coming quarters.
And in particular because of what we’re seeing in terms of corporate performance we would expect some modest spread narrowing to continue so that absolute rates probably will not change dramatically.
So again in terms of the conditions for 2011 we don’t expect big changes driven by rates.
But I guess the question Ray was if – when rates start to rise is that a catalyst for issuance activity or is that a constraint on issuance activity?  It should be a catalyst for issuance activity in certain areas of structured finance.
Great.
And then last thing.
On the margin front so you’re up 200-plus basis points here in the first quarter which is obviously the high end of the range you’ve talked about for the full year.
I’m just wondering maybe Linda if you’re feeling a little bit more optimistic on the prospects for margin leverage both near term and over the next couple of years?  Peter let me start by doing something different and correcting something that was written this morning.
We had a – we’re looking at a piece written by Sloan Bohlen that indicated that we expect our full-year margins to be 46%.
That is not true.
We are guiding margins 38 to 40%.
The reason Peter why we’re at those levels we view first quarter as potentially being the strongest margin quarter in the year.
There’re two things going on.
We’re expecting the revenue view this year potentially to be perhaps U-shaped; a little bit different than what we’ve seen in previous years.
And as I mentioned before we see expenses ramping up over the course of the year.
So with all that considered we’re at 38 to 40%.
You know we would hope that would come in at the high end but we’ll have to see how it goes.
So those two things together keep us moderated in our thoughts of what the margin outlook is for the year.
Great.
And one last thing Linda.
So you’re saying the release – modest share repurchase levels so is the first quarter modest and give me the definition of modest please.
Peter last year we did I think in 2010 we did 224 million.
I think that’s sort of how we define modest.
We saw a good opportunity in the first quarter to repurchase 4.3 million shares of stock at 29.94 so we’re feeling pretty good about that.
We’ll have to see how conditions look and what’s going on in the marketplace.
So we have some room to go and we may add a little bit to that but I think modest is about what we did last year.
Got it.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Craig Huber with Access 342.
Good morning.
Linda can you break down for us like I’d like to ask you a percent breakdown between transaction/non-transaction across the four broad categories.
That’s my first question.
Sure.
Starting with structure for first quarter 2011 transactions were 54% of fees where relationship was 46%.
Now interestedly that’s an absolute reverse of what we saw in the fourth quarter of 2010 where it was backwards; transactions were 46 and relationship 54.
So as Ray commented you’re seeing the pickup in activity and structure finance.
Looking at corporate 76% transaction 24% relationship.
Financial Institutions 43% transaction 57% relationship; and Public Project and Infrastructure 55% transaction 45% relationship.
Total for the rating agency is 62% transaction and 38% relationship.
And Moody's Analytics’ is 17% transaction 83% relationship.
And Craig this is Ray.
I would just add although – you can do the math.
Although the relationship percentage is down compared to transaction the absolute dollars of relationship revenue are up year on year both for Moody's investor service and Moody's Analytics.
And then can you also Linda break down if you would the segments underneath that.
The percentage of ABS or MIS the percentage breakdown for structured corporate etc.
Yeah sure.
Let me frame this question Craig.
I want to make sure everyone understands.
We’ve got about $77 million of increase in revenue in MIS for the first quarter of ’11 versus  ’10.
About – well 55.4 million of that is coming from the corporates area 17.9 is coming from the structured area.
So as I said before the lion’s share is from corporate and the next piece is from structured.
FIG and PPIF are relatively flat.
But let me go through the flips that you’re looking for Craig.
So for the first quarter of 2011 investment grade was 36.5 million or 20% of corporate.
Now that’s very strongly up that’s up 11.6 million from this time last year.
High yield $44.7 million that’s 25% that’s also up $11.1 million or 33% from last year.
Bank loans $34.6 million or 19% of corporate revenue up 90% from last year’s 16.4 million.
So you can see all three of those areas are up pretty dramatically.
Other is at $66 million and that’s 36% of those fees and that’s up $16.3 million or 33% as well.
So as you can see all the corporate lines have shown very good growth really driving the biggest part of MIS revenue increases.
So let’s look at structured and start with ABS.
Looking at $26.7 million for ABS 30% of those revenues that’s up 3.6 million R&amp;BF at 23.1 million 26% of structured revenues that’s up from 14.3 million last year to 62% increase.
So that’s helpful.
We understand about 45% of that is from covered bonds.
Commercial real estate $19 million up from 12.3 last year a 54% increase and derivatives at $20.6 million that’s actually off a little bit from last year 23% of structured finance revenues which total 89.4.
Do you want me to keep going Craig?  Yeah could you just do the other two real quick if you would please.
Sure okay.
So FIG is flattish from this time last year $76.9 million banking is 53.5 insurance 19.9 managed investment is 3.6.
So all of them are looking relatively like they did last year.
And again we had an increase of only $700 000 here in the financial institution’s group line.
Turning to PPIF PFG in soverance about $30 million that’s 46% Muni’s 4.5 and both of those lines were down a little bit from this point last year.
Project and infrastructure $30 million that was up about 20% from last year.
And for total $64.5 million for PPIF last year at this time it was 61.4.
So you see FIG and public project infrastructure are basically flattish and corporate into a lesser extend structure are really driving the changes in MIS revenue.
Thanks Linda.
And also how did your transaction revenues do over at Asia versus your overall transaction worldwide? Actually Craig I don’t have that off the top of my head but I would say that on the Moody's Analytics side we get a strong amount of transaction revenue coming out of Asia associated with our professional services business.
And Mark I don’t know if you have anything you can add to that.
Only that you’re right and I don’t have the specifics at my fingertips.
And lastly can you just update us on where your major law cases are at right now? Yeah we’ve had a couple of developments in the first quarter.
First of all the litigation on auction rate securities known as the [inaudible] litigation.
The claim against Moody's was dismissed.
And then we also had a shareholders class-action or reported class action in which the class certification was denied.
So those are the principal development in the first quarter.
Looking forward we have a – we had a hearing on the Calper’s case in which following the fourth quarter hearing last year in which speech – ratings were recognized as speech.
There was a second hearing in which the judge denied the plaintiff discovery.
And that will be followed by a hearing in August to – for the plaintiff to make its case.
We don’t whether that August hearing will result in a ruling in August from the court or not.
So the next date we’re looking for is August but we don’t know what the consequences of that hearing will be or the timing that comes from that.
Then finally the Abadie litigation is in discovery.
We expect it’s going to continue into discovery through the summer and perhaps in to the fall.
So the timing on that case remains I would say quite uncertain.
This is just a follow-up on that.
What’s the total number of cases that have been dismissed and withdrawn? It’s in – I don’t have the exact number for you but it’s the low 20s.
All most two dozen.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Yeah great.
Linda do you have specifics on headcount by U.S.
international in the quarter? Yes I do Doug.
Last year fourth quarter we had a total of 4 461 employees 2 333 U.S.
2 128 international.
We finished the first quarter with net addition of only 53 heads and that’s a 1% increase in headcount.
So we talked before about last year’s – 2010s 9% headcount increase.
We had said 4 to 5% headcount increase total for 2011 so as you can see we’ve lightened up on that.
Total MCO headcount at the end of the first quarter was 4 514 2 350 basically in the U.S.
and 2 170 internationally basically.
Pretty close to even.
Great.
And then just on the public project and infrastructure area while it was flattish I mean given what was going on in the U.S.
municipal market which I guess you were down 10% there.
That’s pretty impressive.
And then this big surge in international infrastructure is that sustainable? Yeah and you hit on it.
The public finance the U.S.
Public Finance business was down in the first quarter not surprisingly but we did have good growth in the project and infrastructure line.
And that was international.
So that offset and actually did a little better than offset the decline in the U.S.
public finance business.
We do think that international infrastructure project finance is going to be na area of strength going forward.
It is about the same size as the U.S.
municipal business in the first quarter in terms of our revenues.
And we do think that the global infrastructure needs are going to be in place for a number of years.
Okay great thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Bill Clark with KBW.
I think you touched on the domestic regulatory front as far as implications for Dodd-Frank and SSC rules that are being written and discussed right now.
You touched on one of them that as far as the requirements and for ratings in bank capital rules and I wondered if you could just expand on that a little bit more.
If you heard any recent information as far as what direction that might be going? Yeah sure.
I think the dialog that’s going on is trying to respond to the mandate under Dodd-Frank to reduce the reliance on ratings and regulation and the requirement that government regulators  and enterprises review their use of ratings and regulations with an eye to finding alternatives.
As you probably know we support that.
We think that we have a healthy industry and a healthy business without the extent of use of ratings and regulations that currently exist.
However there also seems to be a real struggle to find an alternative.
So we don’t know how whether it’s a banking system regulators or SCC or others are ultimately going to resolve that.
But Moody's position is that whether ratings are ultimately used or some alternative is used the systemic consequences from using any third-party measure of credit risk depends on how those measures are used as opposed to just what measure is chosen.
So we are weighing in on this debate more on that side rather than the actual use of ratings and regulations.
All right great.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And as a reminder if you like to ask a question you may press star 1 at this time.
And we’ll take our next question from Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good afternoon guys and Linda I apologize on that the typo and I know we’ll get that fixed.
I really just have the one question on free cash flow expectations and wondering if you’d give an update on CapEx spend for the year.
And then just what’s your thought is with regard to share repurchase versus now we’ve had two consecutive quarters of that dividends increase.
Sure we take a look at our dividend every quarter and we  traditionally increased our dividend in line with earnings.
So that’s that’s really what we were doing there.
We’re balancing the dividend increases and the share repurchases activity.
And I think I answered a question earlier for Peter that we would continue to see that share repurchase being modest for this year.
In terms of cash flow expectations for the year I don’t think we’ll go there specifically.
Our [inaudible] is not filed yet.
In terms of the levels of cash that we have $720 million were up $60 million from the end of fourth quarter.
And I would note that cash flow has been strengthening as issuance activity has been stronger.
So we feel good about our cash flow the increase in the dividend cost us about $23 million a year which is something we can handle quite easily.
So we’ll continue to look at these things to make sure we keep them in balance but we’re serious about the return in capital to shareholders.
Okay.
And then just any change to the expectations for CapEx spend in the year? I’m sorry.
We had said before 75 million and we’re sticking to that.
Okay.
And then just one bookkeeping item.
So the strength in the quarter in Moody's Analytics you sited the CSI  global acquisition.
Is that – should we consider that a good run-rate going forward or was there a bigger pop in the first quarter that you may be stepped down? Mark you want to? Yeah that’s a pretty good run-rate for the business.
It’s important to note that even without the CSI acquisition the legacy professional service business was up more than double in the quarter.
So we saw a lot of strength in the base business.
And then we also got the incremental revenue from CSI and we’ll continue to see increments on that order for the balance of the year.
Okay.
Great I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference over to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay thank you.
Just before we end the call I wanted to let everyone know that Moody's will be hosting investor day this year.
Based on feedback we’re going to make this by-annual event and in [inaudible] we will be attending a number of conferences in the May/June time frame.
Our next investor day will be held in mid-2012.
I just want to thank you all for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again in July.
Thank you.
This concludes Moody's first quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on Moody's website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody’s Corporation’s Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for questions and answers following the presentation.
I will now turn the conference over to Raya Sokolyanska Vice President Investor Relations substituting for Salli Schwartz.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody’s second quarter results for 2011.
I am Raya Sokolyanska Vice President of Investor Relations substituting for Salli Schwartz.
Moody’s released its results for the second quarter of 2011 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Corporation will lead this morning’s conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody’s Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today’s remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the management’s discussion and analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statement set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I will now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Raya.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today’s call.
I’ll begin our remarks by summarizing Moody’s second quarter 2011 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
I will then speak to recent regulatory developments and finish with comments on our outlook for 2011.
After our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to respond to your questions.
Second quarter revenue of $605 million increased 27% over the prior year reflecting gains across the ratings business particularly for corporate debt and continued strong performance from Moody’s analytics.
For all reported units within Moody’s Investors Service and Moody’s Analytics grew in the second quarter of 2011 from the same period in 2010.
Operating income for the second quarter totaled $270 million 42% above the prior year period.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter of $0.82 increased 61% year-over-year and included a benefit of $0.06 resulting from a foreign tax ruling.
Based on second quarter performance we are raising our full year 2011 EPS guidance to a range of $2.38 to $2.48 from the prior range of $2.22 to $2.32.
However we expect more challenging debt issuance conditions in the U.S.
and Europe in the second half of the year as compared to the first half.
Turning to year-to-date performance revenue for the first six months of 2011 was $1.2 billion a 24% increase from the first half of 2010.
Expenses were $662 million up 17% and operating income of $520 million increased 34% from the prior year period.
Revenue of Moody’s Investor Service for the first six months of 2011 was $851 million an increase of 28% from a year ago.
Moody’s Analytics revenue was $332 million 14% higher than the prior year period.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I will begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody’s total revenue for the quarter increased 27% to $605 million.
Excluding the favorable impact of foreign currency translation revenue grew 23%.
U.S.
second quarter revenue increased 20% to $315 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 34% to $290 million and represented 48% of Moody’s total revenue.
Recurring revenue of $309 million represented 51% of the total compared to 59% in the prior year period.
Looking now at each of our businesses Moody’s Investor Service revenue for the quarter was $438 million a 33% increase year-over-year.
Excluding the favorable impact of foreign currency translations revenue grew 29%.
U.S.
revenue was up 26% over the prior year period while outside the U.S.
revenue grew 44% and also represented 44% of total ratings revenue.
Global corporate finance revenue for the second quarter was $86.3 million 18% above the prior year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 8% year-over-year primarily due to strong issuance growth in commercial mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities.
Other areas of the U.S.
structured finance market including residential mortgage backed securities remained weak.
Non-U.S.
structured finance revenue rose 28% reflecting higher issuance volumes in European asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities including covered bonds.
Global financial institutions revenue of $79 million increased 25% from the same quarter of 2011.
U.S.
financial institutions revenue increased 27% driven by increased banking and insurance issuance from smaller-sized institutions while non-U.S.
revenues increased 24% supported by stronger banking activity in all regions.
Global revenue for the public project and infrastructure finance business grew by 13% year-over-year to $73 million.
Revenue increased 7% in the U.S.
reflecting growth in infrastructure finance partially offset by continued weakness in public and project finance issuance.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 25% primarily driven by growth in infrastructure finance.
And turning now to Moody’s Analytics global revenue for Moody's Analytics was $167 million was up 12% from the second quarter of 2010.
The impact of foreign currency translation was negligible.
U.S.
revenue grew by 4% year-over-year to $70 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased by 18% to $97 million and represented 58% of total Moody's Analytics revenue.
Globally revenue from research data and analytics of $111 million increased 6% from the prior year period and represented about 66% of total MA revenue as we continue to see good demand for products across our portfolio.
Revenue from risk management software of $40 million increased 2% over last year’s strong second quarter performance.
Due to the variable nature of project timing and the concentration of revenue in a relatively small number of engagements risk management software revenue remain subject to quarterly volatility.
Professional services revenue more than tripled to $16 million reflecting the acquisition of CSI Global Education in November 2010 as well as strong results in the base business.
Moody's second quarter expenses were $335 million an increase of 17% compared to second quarter of 2010 or 13% increase including the negative impact of foreign exchange translation.
Expense growth was primarily driven by increased headcount including from the acquisition of CSI Global Education and higher accruals for incentive compensation and Moody's profit sharing plan reflecting the stronger full year outlook.
Moody's reported operating margin for the quarter was 44.6% compared with 39.9% in the second quarter of 2010.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.8% compared with 31.1% for the prior year period.
The decrease was driven by lower taxes on foreign and state income and a recent favorable tax ruling partially offset by a smaller benefit in 2011 for legacy tax matters.
Now I will provide an update on capital allocation and stock buybacks.
During the second quarter of 2011 Moody's did not repurchase any shares and issued 0.9 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plans.
Outstanding shares as of June 30 2011 totaled 228.7 million representing a 2% decline from a year earlier.
As of quarter end Moody's had 1.1 billion of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program.
As of June 30th Moody's had $1.2 billion of outstanding debt with $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Cash and cash equivalents were $939 million an increase of $453 million from the prior year period approximately 70% of our cash holdings are maintained outside the U.S.
We remain committed to using our strong cash flow to create value for shareholders while maintaining sufficient liquidity.
We expect to resume share repurchases in the second half of 2011 subject to available cash flow market condition and other ongoing capital allocations decisions.
And with that I will turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I'll continue with an update on legislative and regulatory developments.
First in the U.S.
as discussed last quarter the principal regulatory activities in 2011 will be SEC rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act.
The majority of rule proposals regarding regulation of NRSRO were published in May with the common dead line of August 8th.
These rule proposals include requirements on reporting of internal controls analysts training and transparency of ratings related information.
The SEC has also published request for comment regarding the feasibility of establishing system before a signing in NRSRO to determine one of the credit ratings for structured finance products.
This is generally known as the Franken amendment.
That comment deadline is September 13.
And yesterday during an open hearing the SEC adopted rules that we move references to credit ratings and certain rules forms and communications made by issuers under the securities laws.
This action is consistent with Moody’s long-standing recommendations.
While new rules entail various changes in our rating agency processes and operations and require us to adapt our business we will not alter our fundamental business objective to provide the highest quality credit opinions research and analysis.
Turning to Europe the transfer of oversight of registered credit rating agencies from national regulators to the newly established European Securities and Markets Authority or ESMA is effective as of this month.
We have submitted an application for the registration of our EU-based entities and for authorization to endorse our non-European credit ratings so that they qualify for regulatory use by EU regulated entities.
We expect the review of Moody’s registration application to be concluded before year end.
The European Commission is expected to propose new rules for the rating agency industry in the coming months regarding matters that include the use of ratings in regulation business models sovereign ratings liability and competition.
Finally on July 20 the European Commission published its preliminary proposal on bank capital which seeks to implement Basel III.
The proposal focus is on three new elements provision of sanctions effective corporate governance and provisions preventing the over-reliance on external credit ratings.
As regulatory reviews and activity occur in other jurisdictions we will continue to advocate for globally consistent approaches that align with the G-20 statements and directives.
I will conclude this morning’s prepared remarks by discussing our full year guidance.
Moody’s outlook for 2011 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability and business investment spending mergers and acquisition activity and consumer borrowing and securitization.
There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody’s results for the year may differ materially from our current forecast.
As mentioned earlier we are revising our EPS guidance upward for the full year 2011 to a range of $2.38 to $2.48 reflecting stronger than expected second quarter performance partially offset by expectations from more challenging debt issuance conditions in the U.S and Europe in the second half of 2011 as compared to the first half of the year.
For Moody’s Corporation we now expect full year 2011 revenue to grow in the low-teens percent range.
Full year expenses including the impact of higher accruals for incentive compensation and Moody’s profit-sharing plan are now projected to increase in the low double-digit percent range.
The full year 2011 operating margin is still projected between 38% and 40%.
Our effective tax rate is now expected to be approximately 33% for the year.
Our revenue expectations for certain areas have changed based on conditions specific to those businesses and geographies.
My comments will primarily highlight those components that have been revised and we refer you to our earnings release for a full review of our 2011 guidance.
Our full year outlook assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates.
At Moody’s Investor Service we now expect revenue to increase in the low teens percent range globally with high single-digit percent growth in the U.S.
and growth internationally in the low 20s percent range.
Revenue now projected to increase in the mid 20s percent range in corporate finance and in the high single-digit percent range in structured finance.
Public project and infrastructure finance revenue is now expected to remain about flat to last year.
Global revenue of Moody’s Analytics is now expected to grow in the low double-digit percent range with that growth reflected both in the U.S.
and internationally.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investor Service.
Mark Almeida the President of Moody’s Analytics is traveling today and will not be on the call.
We’d be pleased to take any questions that you may have.
(Operator Instructions) I will go first to Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
So Linda I’m wondering in the context of how robust the margins were in the current quarter if you are rethinking your expectations in terms of where you think a reasonable level of margin might be over the next couple of years? Peter thanks.
Over the next couple of years I think you said we’d hope to over time return to the low 40s but for the second half of this year most immediately we are expecting to see a little bit of margin compression in the back half of the year.
Looking at our guidance you probably inferred that we are expecting some revenue growth slowdown from the first half of the year to the second half of the year and as we had mentioned on the first quarter call we will continue to ramp expenses.
So we may find that the margin will suffer a bit of contraction before we hopefully return to expansion mode.
When you say compression are you meaning versus first half or you meaning on a year-to-year basis? I mean versus first half.
The first half I think we are running at 44.3 for the year for margin.
Let me give you the actual numbers so that I'm sure that everybody understands where we are here.
We do expect revenue slowdown in the second half of the year compared to the first half.
You will recall we have tougher comparables as well in the third and fourth quarter when revenues strengthened last year.
So the first half of the year we have done a $1.182 billion in revenue and we are expecting that we will probably see some more between $50 million and $75 million less in revenue for the second half.
That will still be up in the mid single digits over last year's second half but again the pace of growth is moderating.
Then on the expense side if you go back to the first quarter call you will remember that I said that the first quarter expenses were in fact $327 million for the first quarter and we are expecting that ramp to increase by $40 million to $50 million for the expense number when we get to Q4.
So the two trends taken together earnings growth a little bit slower and ramping expense growth will probably cause margin contraction for the back half of the year.
Got it and then Linda just as a housekeeping issue the $0.06 tax benefit from the foreign tax ruling are you including that benefit in the revised guidance? Yes we introduced a 33% tax rate of rolling forward we had in two beneficial items one with the resolution of the legacy tax matter for $0.03 and then that foreign tax ruling that you exactly mentioned Peter which was $0.06.
Or $0.09 in the revised guidance.
That’s correct.
Okay got it.
And then lastly Ray can you give us an update on the litigation front.
You had some pretty good success I understand recently? There are a couple of things from the quarter that I think are probably worth highlighting.
First of all because the case is visible I'd just point out that on the CalPERS matter the hearing that was originally scheduled for August 23 has been postponed to September 8 and 9.
We don't know that there will be any ruling consistent with the timing of that hearing but that is when the hearing is going to be held on CalPERS.
In May we had a Court of Appeals decision affirming the dismissal of three separate cases that we've referred to in previous calls as a 33 Act cases that would seek to hold rating agencies liable as underwriters under the 33 Act.
The Court of Appeals the Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal of the three separate cases that it was reviewing so that was very good news.
Then just recently in July we had the Second Circuit again saying that plaintiffs in a shareholder action that they were seeking to establish class action status for could not appeal the decision disallowing them to represent other shareholders as a class.
So those would be the three cases that are worth noting from the most recent quarter.
We will go next to William Bird with Lazard.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about the implied guidance for the second half.
Is it based on what you are seeing now and also how if you risk the numbers relative to a potential U.S.
downgrade? Sure Bird.
I think it's appropriate to characterize the pipelines now as reasonable.
They are not as – certainly in the corporate area are not as robust as they were earlier in the year but they're still pretty good especially for investment grade issuance and I will offer some broader comments in just a moment but I would also characterize the public finance pipeline as reasonable although it has been soft for most of this year so there has been a pick up but it was off of a low base earlier in the year and then in structured finance again the pipeline looks pretty good but it has some areas of strength and some areas where there is continuing weakness.
So I would say that's the area where our outlook for the second half of the year is probably the most uncertain and may embed the most upside potential as against our current expectations but beyond the pipelines which again I am characterizing as being pretty good are questions about whether there are going to be temporary market dislocations associated with some of the sovereign debt issues either in Europe or here in the U.S.
We’re looking at situations that we think are somewhat analogous to when we saw market slowdown a year ago when the initial problems with Greece surfaced and there were temporary slowdowns in debt issuance.
We wouldn't be surprised to see that again in the second half this year although we do believe that those would be temporary.
Then whether there would be a slowdown in issuance associated with any rating action on the U.S.
Government I think while there is not a direct linkage between most of the corporate and private sector ratings that we do assign there are some areas where there are linkages whether it's with government sponsored enterprises or municipality states and we would assume that there would be in the event of a rating action on the U.S.
Government again some market dislocation and we would have to see how quickly any resolution about the debt ceiling problems in the U.S.
were resolved how quickly those actions were taken and what the longer term plan around the sovereign debt situation in the U.S.
would be in order to better forecast what the impact would be on the financial markets more broadly.
Great thank you.
I was just wondering if you could touch on refinancing you know clearly there was quite a lot of that activity in Q2.
I was wondering if you have any sense of how much of the future activity got pulled forward? Yes we certainly believe that Q2 really the first half of this year has been characterized by pull forward of debt financing early in the year from later this year and then more recently from 2012.
So a lot of debt that would have been maturing in 2012 has been refinanced but there is still a large amount of debt that is scheduled to mature in 2013 through 2015 that is going to have to be refinanced and we would expect to see pull-forward of that as we move later into this year and then into 2012 before potentially interest rates or spreads widen and financing costs rise.
So there is a substantial amount of debt to be refinanced.
In terms of where we would see upside in the corporate area it's really not the refinancing at this point though I think we would want to see a resumption of business spending business confidence and merger and acquisition activity to continue as it has in the first half of 2011 and that would provide some upside potential to the corporate sector.
Great.
And just final question Linda I was wondering if you could give us the incentive comp accrual.
Thank you.
Bill as we had said obviously we’ve increased our guidance and that really results in two things; first our incentive comp accrual goes up and also we've instituted profit sharing because EPS growth has at this point exceeded 10% for the year.
The profit sharing number which is right now a little under $2 million you can see in the salary and benefits line the incentive comp number for the second quarter 2011 was $35 million and for this quarter last year it was $18.3 million reflecting obviously we've had a very strong second quarter this year and last year's second quarter as Ray had described was characterized by the air pocket as we call it around Greece.
So we had a much lower incentive compensation number last year.
We’ll go to Michael Meltz with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Linda can you clarify the Peter's question about the guidance? The EPS you're basing it on to get to that $2.38 to $2.48 that's the $1.46 you did non-GAAP in the first half or the $1.49? It’s 1.49 GAAP.
We do our guidance by GAAP Michael.
Okay.
And then just to understand a little bit more on what you're saying about the near term expectation is Q3 looking just Ray I guess you said reasonable then you said pretty good pipeline.
And you're looking at a pipeline of what could get done based on what issuers have your discussions how are you thinking about it? Because I guess we're sitting here thinking the world's ending and it's an ugly place out there but it sounds like you still expect a good amount of issuance.
You expect revenues to grow in the second half.
Can you just talk little more about what you see? We do expect year-on-year revenue growth in the second half.
We do not expect it to be the kind of growth that we saw in the first half.
But we are not expecting a significant downturn in our business at all.
In fact as I said we’re expecting it to continue to grow in the second half of the year.
We do think there are higher than normal likelihood of short term disruptions.
We’ve been seeing that over the last 12 to 18 months and doesn’t look like any reason to say we think those periods of disruptions are passed us.
There continues to be stress in Europe and European public sector and obviously we have the issues here in the US that have been in the headlines.
So there is a I would say a higher than usual degree of uncertainty about exactly what the timing is for returning to greater market stability and what the conditions will be that have led to that greater market stability based on policy actions in the US and developed Europe both.
Okay.
Linda a question for you on capital allocation why was there no repurchase in the quarter as the stock pulled back and now you're sitting here the stock's gotten tagged a bit I mean how should we be thinking about the extent of share repurchase activity going forward? Certainly Michael it was a much simpler explanation.
When we have material information that the market doesn’t have we’re precluded from being in the share repurchase market and that was the situation for most of the second quarter.
As I said we are expecting to resume share repurchase for the back of the year and we have plenty of capacity and we have plenty of cash.
We’ll go next to Craig Huber with Access 342.
Yes good morning.
Thanks.
As I typically like to ask Linda can you just give us the transaction versus non-transaction percentages for structured finance corporate financial institutions and PPIF? And I have some follow-ups.
Thanks.
I will give you the percentages as you said Craig for transaction and then relationship.
We’ll start with structured.
For the second quarter of 2011 transaction is 51 relationship 49 corporates on the back of the very strong issuance 76 transactions 24% relationship financial institution 38% transaction 62% relationship PPIF 59 and 41 total for the rating agency for the second quarter 61% transaction and 39% relationship MA as you know Craig kind of runs the other way 16% transaction 84% relationship and as we said in the script the total for the company was 49 and 51.
Then also Linda if you would another way you break down the revenues within structured finance and the other categories via ABS RMBS CREF and derivatives and if you could breakdown corporate financial and PPIF as well that way by percentages? Yes sure.
Let me do corporates first Craig.
Investment grade for the second quarter was 19% of the total corporate revenue; spec grade high yield was 23% bank loans 22% and other was 37% and in fact corporates represented 46% of the rating agency revenue.
If we look at structured the asset-backed line was 32% of the structured total.
Residential mortgage-backed securities and this includes covered bonds on a global basis was 26% of the revenues.
Commercial real estate was 20% derivatives was 21% and structured represented 20% of the total rating agency revenue.
Financial institutions; banking represented 68% insurance 24% and managed investments 8% and FIG was a total of 18% of the MIS revenue and PPIF the public finance and sovereigns 47% annuities 7% project and infrastructure 46% and PPIF was a total of 17% of the rating agency revenue.
Do you want analytics as well Craig? We have that in the press release.
I’m just curious you did hit on this but is there anything else you can tell us more specifically why you didn't buy back any stock in the quarter? Whatever you're alluding to here is it in the marketplace now so you're allowed to buy back stock in the third quarter or are you still on hold? Yes.
As of today it's in the marketplace now.
We had choppy issuance conditions and frankly it was unclear where we were going to go with our guidance so we weren't in the market.
That's the story Lastly on the costs if I heard you right are you trying to say that your total cost by the fourth quarter will be up $40 million to $50 million versus say where you're at in the first quarter that we kind of say? Right total expenses were $327 million in the first quarter and we're going to ramp throughout the year and so we're looking at another $40 million or $50 million on top of that $327 million by the time we get to Q4.
So call it $367 million $377 million something like that.
We will go next to Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Linda just on the cost side again SG&amp;A has been ramping at a 15% to 20% rate for four five quarters in a row.
This specific quarter was only up 4%; anything changing there? Not particularly.
We have added to our efforts obviously to drive the Moody's Analytics business but nothing particular there a little bit of pop-up in T&amp;E expense but nothing of great note there Doug.
Yes I mean it just seemed like all of a sudden you're kind of leveled off.
I know you've spent a lot of time on second half expenses but just kind of a strange trend.
Then Ray can you specifically address the bank loan ratings market within corporate I mean that was huge and it's really been huge now year-over-year for six or seven quarters in a row and it appears to have been another big boomer in the second quarter.
What's going on there and what is your outlook there for the second half? Sure.
What has been going on there is two things.
One the rated bank loan sector is an area where we are gaining share as compared to the unrated sector so the number of bank loans that are being rated as a percent of the total stock of bank loans is growing.
There has also been a significant amount of bank loan activity so the stock itself has been growing and in particular I would point to Europe and what is a longer term secular disintermediation trend and a move to having bank loans rated and available for a wider investment population than historically would have been the case.
We did have very significant amount of bank loan activity in the first half of the year.
We don't think it's going to again maintain that pace although it's going to continue to be a strong area for us in the second half of the year although with the U.S.
being stronger than Europe is our current expectation.
Am I right to look at it this way that if the public markets which are clearly softened here near term remain that way at least through some resolution of the debt ceiling that the bank loan market could continue to operate at a fairly strong level separate from that? Yes.
I would agree with that on a longer term basis.
Whether we will have you know the kind of bank loan activity in the second half of this year compared to the first half I would have to say no.
We don't think we will.
But again it's a secular story I think more than a cyclical story.
So we believe that the amount of ratable debt is growing and the request for ratings on that debt is increasing.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We will go next to Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs Hi good afternoon.
Ray just to stick on the topic for few seconds that secular change you see in the bank loan market do you think that’s more tied to capital requirements at banks versus what we are seeing here with regard to the debt ceiling whether it be whatever is going on with sovereign debt? Maybe explain what we could see in terms of the magnitude how broad that ratable debt market could grow? I think it is attached more to disintermediation and is being driven probably by both sides of the lending equation.
In that banks in certain jurisdictions are making loans less available but also the borrowers themselves are looking to have access to multiple sources of capital and so whether it's from the bank lines or whether it's from the bond markets we are seeing growth in the speculative grade market through bonds and then because of the interest in expanding the investor base in the loan sector.
I do think that is driven by capital requirements.
I think it's also driven by again the borrowers interest in diversifying its access to capital.
Okay and would you tribute that to the strength that we saw in the corporate market in Europe this past quarter? Yes.
The corporate market both the loan market and the bond market in Europe were strong in the last quarter.
Okay and then Linda just one question on capital allocation.
With regard to thinking about buckets or available liquidity when we think about buybacks is there a metric we should think about how much capital you would like to keep in cash as dry powder for acquisitions versus how much you would like on a leverage basis.
I know in the past we talked about your levels relative to your commercial paper borrowing but how should we think about that going forward.
I think you probably just wanted to be aware that of the $939 million of cash we have as we have said about 70% of that is offshore.
So working with about $300 million here in the U.S.
we would like to keep around the sufficient amount obviously to ensure appropriate liquidity and the rest we can use.
We don’t have any specific bogie for acquisition and of course if the acquisition targets are oversees as with the case with CSI and from that we can use the offshore cash to purchase those acquisitions.
So we have plenty of cash and plenty of capability but the main thing to think about really is to ensure that we have sufficient liquidity here in the U.S.
and we are prudent about how we think about the rest.
Really doesn’t have too much to do with the commercial paper situation.
In fact we have no commercial paper outstanding right now.
Okay.
And just to frame that $300 million is that in terms of more than what you need that two times more than what you need to trying to frame what the potential availability for share buy backs could be out of that $300 million.
It's a couple of times more than what we need but given the world today we try to run this place pretty prudently.
So we are not going to spend down to our last dime.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
We will go next to Edward Atorino with Benchmark Company.
Hi on the depreciation question guy.
Depreciation jumped up in the quarter.
Is that the new runway or is there stuff in there that goes away? Good observation good observation Ed.
What that really is we are looking at the amortization there of the intangible for the CSI acquisition in Canada that we bought last year.
So that’s really the first piece of that.
Then we have soft fair systems that we brought online and a couple more of those.
So that line has picked up a little bit.
But I think in terms of a run rate that sort of for the first half we are running about 40 machined that is a good number for the back half of the year.
Same question on interest expense up $5 million quarter-to-quarter.
A lot of stuff in there I know.
Yes a lot of that line also brings into effect FX.
But our expense on borrowing has moved up.
You can see it on one of the schedules attached to our statement.
The expense on borrowing is 16.3 million versus 10.6 last year because we did put in place that $500 million bond deal that we did last year.
So that is the majority of that.
So you had some positives offsetting that.
Yes.
So $15 million $17 million number here is okay but this number bounces around a lot Ed depending on how FX is going.
I think it was Peter's questions on the base for the guidance if one looked at the first half it's about a $1.60 something that is the base for the year's guidance? Yes.
Before the $0.03.
$1.49 Ed.
Without a computer I can't add.
That is with the $0.03.
Our next question comes from Bill Clark with KBW.
I just wanted to go back to the expenses for another minute.
Linda you mentioned the $327 million as kind of  the baseline and $40 million by year-end.
I'm wondering if there is any way to pinpoint how much may have been incrementally added in the second quarter or if we should look at it as a third third third for that $40 million.
We don't like to go quarter by quarter particularly.
The expense number for the first quarter was $327 million then we went to $335 million.
I told you the number you are trying to get to which is $40 million to $50 million above the $327 million where we started.
The reason for this is generally the additions in head count and compensation as we talked about in the script.
We did not have particularly heavy additions in head count for the second quarter but we are expecting that those will ramp up in the third and fourth quarter.
So this is a traditional pattern for us that the expenses ramp over the course of the year.
But you should probably make your own decisions as to how you want to run that ramp up but I think we have described it pretty fully.
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay thank you everyone for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking to you again in October.
This concludes Moody’s second quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 4 p.m.
Eastern Time on Moody’s website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody’s Corporation’s Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for questions and answers following the presentation.
I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody’s third quarter results for 2011.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Moody’s released its results for the third quarter of 2011 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Corporation will lead this morning’s conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody’s Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today’s remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the management’s discussion and analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statement set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I will now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today’s call.
I’ll begin our remarks by summarizing Moody’s third quarter 2011 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
I will then speak to recent regulatory developments comment briefly on one of our litigation matters and finish with an update of our outlook for 2011.
After our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to respond to your questions.
Third quarter revenue of $531 million increased 4% over the prior year with strong performance by Moody’s Analytics offsetting a modest revenue decline at Moody’s Investors Service.
Operating income for the third quarter totaled $196 million also 4% above the prior year period.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter of $0.57 increased 2% year-over-year and included a benefit of $0.03 from the favorable resolution of a state tax matter.
While volatile market condition in US and Europe may continue we are reaffirming our 2011 EPS guidance of $2.38 to $2.48 and we expect to beat the upper end of the range.
Turning to year-to-date performance revenue for the first nine months of 2011 was $1.7 billion a 17% increase from the first nine months of 2010.
Expenses were $997 million up 12% and operating income of $716 million increased 24% from the prior year period.
Revenue at Moody’s Investor Service for the first nine months of 2011 was $1.2 billion an increase of 18% from a year ago.
Moody’s Analytics revenue was $512 million 15% higher than the prior year period.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I will begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody’s total revenue for the quarter increased 4% to $531 million.
Excluding the favorable impact of foreign currency translation revenue grew 1%.
US third quarter revenue decreased 1% to $274 million while revenue outside the US grew 9% to $257 million and represented 48% of Moody’s total revenue up from 46% in the year ago period.
Recurring revenue of $314 million represented 59% of the total compared to 55% in the prior year period.
Looking now at each of our businesses Moody’s Investor Service revenue for the quarter was $351 million a 2% decrease year-over-year.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation revenue was down 5%.
US revenue decreased 4% over the prior year period while outside the U.S.
revenue increased 1% and represented 43% of total ratings revenue.
Global Corporate Finance revenue in the third quarter decreased a 11% from the year ago period to $129 million.
Revenue was down 11% in the US while outside the US revenue was lower by 10% year-over-year.
The decline in global corporate finance revenue reflected weaker issuance primarily in speculative grade bonds in both the US and Europe.
Global Structured Finance revenue for the third quarter was $82 million 17% above the prior year period.
In the US revenue increased 20% year-over-year primarily due to strength in commercial real estate.
Most other areas of the US structured finance market remained weak including residential mortgage backed securities.
Non-US structured finance revenue rose 14% driven part primarily by European covered bonds and residential mortgage-backed securities in Europe and Asia.
Global financial institutions revenue of $72 million decreased 2% from the same quarter of 2010 with US revenue declining 1% while non-US revenue fell 3%.
Global revenue for the public project and infrastructure finance business declined 2% year-over-year to $68 million.
Revenue decreased 8% in the US reflecting a reduction in new financing for projects and infrastructure program.
Non-US revenue increased 13% primarily due to gains in the infrastructure sector.
Turning now to Moody’s Analytics global revenue from Moody’s Analytics of $180 million was up 16% from third quarter of 2010.
The impact of foreign currency translation was negligible.
US revenue grew by 6% year over year to $76 million.
Non-US revenue increased by 24% to $104 million and represented 58% of total Moody’s analytics revenue.
Globally revenue from research data and analytics of $115 million increased 9%  from the prior year period and represented about 64% of total MA revenue as we continue to see good demand for products across our portfolio.
Revenue from risk management software of $48 million increased 12% over last year’s third quarter performance.
Due to the variable nature of project timings risk management software revenue remained subject to quarterly volatility.
Professional services revenue more than doubled to $117 million primarily reflecting the acquisition of CSI Global Education in November 2010.
Turning now to expenses Moody’s third quarter expenses was $335 million an increase of 3% compared to third quarter of 2010 or 1% increase excluding the impact of foreign currency translation.
Moody's reported operating margins of the third quarter was 36.9% essentially flat to the third quarter of 2010.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 28.5% compared to 24.4% for the prior year period.
The increase in effective tax rate was primarily due to a tax benefits associated with foreign earnings in 2010 partially offset by a tax benefit from the settlement of state tax audits in the current period.
Now I’ll provide an update on capital allocation and stock buyback.
During the third quarter of 2011 Moody’s repurchased 6.8 million shares and issued 0.1 million shares under Employee stock based compensation plan.
Outstanding shares as of September 30th totaled 222 million representing a 5% decline from the year earlier.
As of quarter's end Moody’s had 0.9 billion of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program.
As of September 30 Moody’s had $1.2 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under a revolving credit facility.
Cash and cash equivalent were $854 million an increase of $61 million from the year earlier.
Approximately 80% of our cash holdings are maintained outside US.
We remain committed to using our strong cash growth create value for shareholders for maintaining sufficient liquidity.
Share repurchase remained such as to available cash flow and other capital allocation decision.
With that I will turn the call back to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I will continue with the update on regulatory and litigation developments.
In the US following the SEC’s August common deadline for ruler proposals relevant to NRSROs under the Dodd-Frank Act.
The SEC is expected to adopt final rules by June 2012.
Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act regulatory authorities have begun resuming their user ratings and regulations and considering alternative measures this replacements.
In September a separate SEC common period closed regarding a Dodd-Frank mandated study about among other matters feasibility of establishing an alternative system for allocating credit ratings assignments for structure finance products.
The study which the SEC expect to complete by December 2012 stems from what’s known as the Frankin Amendment.
Also in September the SEC released its first annual reports summarizing its examination of NRSROs as mandated by the Dodd-Frank act.
It did not determine that any finding discussed in the report constituted a material regulatory deficiency.
Turning to Europe transfer of oversight of registered credit rating agencies to the European Securities and Markets Authority or ESMA became effective in July.
We expect the decision on Moody’s registration application of our EU based entities to be made before year end.
As many of you know the European Commission is expected to for its new rules for credit agency industry drafts of which have been commented on by the media and some European officials.
We also understand that the commission intends to release a formal proposal by mid to late November.
Once the proposal is published it will then be debated among members of the European parliament the commission and members of the European Council of Finance Ministers.
The suggested measures that have been imported on by the media address sober ratings the use of ratings in regulation business models rotation of rating agencies liability and competition.
We will continue to consult with relevant authorities and others as to the specifics of these drafts proposals.
While new rules globally entail various changes in our rating agencies processes and operation and require us to adept a business who not only taught fundamental business objective to apply the highest quality independent credit opinions research and analysis.
We will also continue to advocate for globally consistent approaches that are aligned in the G-20 statements and directives.
Finally as some of you may now a hearing is scheduled for tomorrow in one of our litigation matters a case brought in California by Telpers regarding certain of our salable SIV ratings.
At that hearing the judge is expected to rule whether the case should be dismissed under California anti-SLAPP statute which defends free speech on matters of public interest.
While we don’t know how the judge will rule we are obviously hopeful that we will prevail on our motion at which point the case would be dismissed.
Even if they do not openly on our motion under the anti-SLAPP statute there will be further opportunities to seek dismissal.
I conclude this morning prepared remarks by discussing our full-year guidance.
Moody’s outlook for 2011 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability and business investment spending merger and acquisition activity and consumer borrowing and securitization.
There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual condition is different from these assumptions Moody’s results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end-of-quarter exchange rates.
As mentioned earlier we are reaffirming our EPS guidance for the full-year of 2011 of $2.
38 to $2.48 and we now expect to be at the upper end of the range.
For Moody’s overall the company now expects full-year 2011 revenue to grow in the low double digit percent range.
Full-year 2011 expenses are now projected to increase in the high-single-digit percent range.
Full-year 2011 operating margin is now projected to be approximately 39% due to the planned increase in expenses and lower expected revenue in the fourth quarter.
The effected tax rate is now expected to approximately 31%.
Share repurchase remain subject to available cash flow and other capital allocation decisions.
At Moody's Investor Service revenue for full-year 2011 is now expected to increase from a high-single-digit percent range.
Within the US MIS revenue is now expected to increase in the mid single-digit percent range while non-US revenue is projected to increase in the low-teens percent range.
Corporate Finance Revenue is now forecast to grow in the low-double-digit percent range.
Revenue from Structured Finance is now projected to increase in the mid-teens percent range.
Financial Institution is now forecast to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range while public project and infrastructure finance revenue is still expected to be about flat.
For Moody’s Analytics full-year 2011 revenue is still expected to increase in the low-double-digit percent range.
Revenue growth is still projected in the mid-single-digit percent range while research data and analytics and in the low-to-mid-single-digit percent range for risk management software.
Professional services revenue is still projected to more than double primarily reflecting revenue from the late 2010 acquisition of CSI Global Education and very strong performance in the risk management advisory business.
Moody’s Analytics revenue is now expected to increase from the high-single-digit percent range in the US and in the mid-teens percent range outside the US.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question and answer session is Michel Madelain the President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investor Service and Mark Almeida President of Moody’s Analytics.
We will be pleased to take any questions you might have.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll go first to William Bird with Lazard.
Looks like your guidance implies a further step-down in MIS Q4.
Just wanted to understand if you're seeing this in pipeline or if it just being conservative driven the world we live in? Well I think its mix Bill.
Where were we see good pipeline but uncertainty I would say is in the corporate finance are particularly that high yield sector.
And I think that good pipeline is going to be whether its executed on in the fourth quarter is going to be subject to whether there are some additional spread contraction and may be some additional economic activity to the extent that there is greater confidence in growth both in the US and in Europe.
I think its worth noting also that structured finance area where we had strength throughout year in crucial real-estate sector and we do think that that pipeline is a little lighter for the fourth quarter then what we have seen earlier in the year.
So that's an area where we would expect decline as well.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about just the cost.
What was the incentive comp accrual in Q3 and what will your cost profile look like in Q4?  Is there anything anomalous in cost in Q4? Sure Bill its Linda.
The incentive compensation accrual for third quarter was $25 million which was down from $35 million in the second quarter of last year and that's probably a reasonable number to use for the fourth quarter if we come in as we expect.
Now if we do of course have higher particularly operating income then we have got it to of course incentive compensation might move back up but sequentially we are expecting relatively flat unless which applies to the upfront.
We go next to Michael Meltz with JPMorgan.
Ray Can you speak of the more about -- I appreciate you comments on regulation and what's happening in Europe.
The press accounts have been inconsistent but they are you know talking about some a lot of the changes.
Can you talk about some of the things that are out there and perhaps its premature but I am just interested here more of your views on that regard.
And then also Linda on the tax rate this is tax rate has been jumping around.
What do you consider your run rate tax rate that specifically at this point what should we be modeling for next year? Yeah sure Michael.
I will start.
With respect to the regulation particularly in Europe we are fully aware of some draft proposal that have been made.
We haven’t seen any formal proposals at this point.
But I would say that the issues being addressed in the proposals in Europe are very similar to what we have been dealing with over the last few years in the US and in some other jurisdictions around competition and conflicts of interest the issue about over-reliance on credit ratings by market participants enhanced transparency in the system whether the liability standards for assigning credit ratings are appropriate or should be changed.
So its not a change in the topics there being debated in the regulatory area.
Although from what I understand some of the proposals in Europe would for how to address those issues would be different in what we have seen for example in the US.
I don’t think I can go into a whole lot of detail on this at this point because again we haven’t seen any formal proposals introduced and we don’t know what any formal proposals ultimately going to look like.
But from what I understand are some things that we would believe are good ideas and some things that we would think are probably not such good ideas.
Included in the former category would be reducing over reliance on rating agencies and improving information transparency.
I think those are workable ideas.
I think they can develop some useful solutions in those areas.
Some of the ideas that we probably wouldn’t be a supportive of I think are also probably more unworkable.
Michael let me take a shot at your tax question and we apologize for our bounty tax rate.
For the third quarter as we said our GAAP view of deducted tax rates was 28.5% and for the year were at 29.9% year-to-date and for the full year guidance we're guiding to 31%.
The issue for us as is we are not always sure.
Well we don’t know when separate state audit matters will be resolved which is what causes the uncertainty.
It frankly makes it very difficult to predict where the tax rate is going.
I would be particularly hesitant to comment on 2012 tax rates because as you know there are some pretty significant proposal splitting around out there in terms of changing the entire corporate tax structure for the US.
But I think it would be pretty draconian of us to try to look it where our tax rates are going to go for next year before we have some grater clarity on the overall federal corporate rate.
So I think its enough to wait till February when we give guidance for the year to get more information on that sorry about that.
May be I will ask it this way I think your guidance implicitly to get the $31 million for the year its perhaps $35 million in the fourth quarter is that fair? Yeah I think we are looking forward to take up in the fourth quarter but again 31 is our rate for the year and it will have to be how we do in some timing (inaudible).
We will go next to Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Hi this is George Tong for Peter Appert thanks for taking my questions.
Could you give us some color on NYSE market share performance versus S&amp;P? Yeah this is Ray and I will make some preliminary remarks but Michel Madelain may want to offer some comment as well.
We have not seen any significant changes in market coverage.
We continue to provide broad comprehensive ratings coverage both in the US and internationally.
So I mean there are areas in certain asset classes on a certain geographies where that is not the case I have mentioned in previous calls.
Based on our credit analysis we have generally not been rating the junior trances of collateralized as known obligations for example.
So there are some areas where we don’t have the broad conference of coverage that I think characterizes our global business.
But I also would say that we have not seen significant changes globally in market coverage.
And Michel if there is anything we should add to that please weigh in.
No I mean the only thing I would add is a full set of segment the volume of transaction is very richly limited and therefore you may see changes from quarter-to-quarter that are really not meaningful but apart from that I can't confirm where there is no real no change like that in taking place in this quarter.
Got it.
And how would you characterize the sustainability of Moody’s margins environment with little to no revenue growth? Well George its Linda let me take a shot of that.
As usual two components that we want to look at on margin for the rest of the year.
The first component is revenue where frankly we have the most uncertainty and obviously we are guiding down on revenue you can get it from the math for the fourth quarter and three out of four the business lines in Moody’s Investor Service so we expect could come off in the fourth quarter.
Moody’s Analytics however we expect to be moving upward in the fourth quarter.
Now expenses we started the year at $327 million in the first quarter and we told everyone we would ramp expenses around $40 million over the course of the year.
And that looked to be about right.
And actually expenses will be down we think perhaps a little bit from where we were fourth quarter last year.
Then we're watching our expenses.
We did a pretty good job with expense control in the third quarter.
We'll continue to work on that again uncertainly around the incentive compensation fees.
But we would expect in the fourth quarter margin if you do the math it’s probably going to be in the low 30s given what we are expecting right now.
Now we do have unusual uncertainty for the fourth quarter of the year.
We could see revenue come off further which would obviously be hurtful to the margin.
We could see revenue move up by a similar amount.
Our guidance incorporates that we could see as much of the $40 million swing to the downside and still hit the bottom end.
We could see that swing to the upside and obviously we might do better but it’s just extremely difficult to tell at this time.
So margin we have got it $38 million to $40 million and we have got it for the year and we have been pretty thoughtfully about that.
Got it that’s very helpful.
Going back to the Analytics business could you provide some details on what’s driving that growth and how sustainable that growth is going forward? Yeah why don’t I ask Mark Almeida to comment on that if you would Mark? Sure we are seeing good strength across all of the Moody’s Analytics businesses particularly research data and analytics.
That business has firmed very nicely throughout the course of this year so we are getting very good growth from RD&amp;A and off course that’s the largest segment within Moody’s Analytics.
The software business continues to perform very well.
We like what’s been happening there and we expect to see continued good growth in software but of course that is a lumpy business.
And so we are going to see some volatility from quarter-to-quarter.
You will recall that the fourth quarter of 2010 was very very strong in software and it’s going to be quite a challenge for us to keep up with that in the fourth quarter this year.
And then finally we are seeing a nice boost from the acquisition of CSI Global Education which we closed last November.
So I guess the long story short we have had very solid organic growth in the business aided by the acquired revenue from CSI this year.
Got it.
And then last question on a very preliminary basis how favorable do you think the operating environment in 2012 will be the generating revenue growth acceleration? Well to follow-up on Linda’s comment we do feel that we are in a period of relatively high uncertainty but high uncertainties does not mean that we don’t see the opportunity for revenue growth in 2012.
We have got some parts of our business that are more subject to capital market activity and issuance trends.
And some parts of the business particularly over in Moody’s Analytics side which are relatively immune to issuance cycles.
I'd just add that we have been in a period of low issuance for the last few months and as you can tell from our guidance for the full-year 2011 we are not excepting a large pickup in the fourth quarter.
But I also commented that the pipelines particularly in corporate finance are pretty strong.
And that is issuance activity that is looking for an opportunity which spreads narrowing to get into the market.
So there is reason to feel good about the future.
It’s just predicting exactly which quarter is that going to happen that we are finding the difficulty with.
We'll go next is Craig Huber with Access 342.
First off Linda I'd like to a typical question.
I'd like to ask your transaction versus non-transaction breakdown for your four areas could you go through that with us please? Sure the third quarter starting with the rating agency as the whole we have 52% transaction and 48% relationship for the whole business and let me break that down with the CFG first 62% transaction and 38% relationship for structured 49% transaction and 51% relationship for FIG 30% transaction and 70% relationship and for PPIF 58% transaction and 42% relationship and for MA were are at 19% transaction and 81% relationship and for the whole company 41% transaction and 59% relationship just 41% and 59%.
And then my other housekeeping question.
Linda can you just revenue breakdown in corporate finance (inaudible) high-yield bank loans etc to a financial institutions too if you would please? Sure.
For investment period 21% of the total $100 million and $29 million was investment Craig.
Now the place where we have there are two places where we have challenges here which is interesting to look at Craig for.
Basically we are running at 12% of the whole CFG line in high-yield and that compares if you want to look at it sequentially in the second quarter of last year we were at 23% of that line running high-yield.
The numbers in terms of the absolute number is $15 million for third quarter down from $45 million in the second quarter.
So that is where we have a revenue issue.
Bank loan is similarly 16% of overall CFG issuance at $21 million and if you look at the second quarter it was 22%.
So the absolute number was $43.6 million in the second quarter.
So again we have had a considerable job in bank loan ratings.
Other accounts 51% for this quarter versus 37% and that’s looking a little bit flatter from second quarter to third quarter.
So again from $200 million second quarter to a $129 million in third quarter that’s the tricky part of what we are wrestling with here and that’s why it makes it more difficult to know where we are going for the fourth quarter.
Let me give you structured you want structured as well as FIG.
Yes all three please.
Okay.
So $82 million for all structured finance for third quarter 29% is asset-backed 25% is RMBS 23% is real estate and 23% is derivative.
And then for FIG a total line of $72 million 70% of that is banking 26% is insurance and 5% is managed investment.
And then for PPIF if you would.
Sure.
You are very thorough Craig.
Every quarter my friend.
Every quarter well we're always prepared.
We have a total of $68.3 million and 50% is PFG and sovereign 7% is munis and 42% is project and infrastructure.
Okay.
And then Ray comment little bit further if you would on structured finance.
Well this year certainly seems like its done a lot better than you can originally expect it nine months ago say can you talk little bit about that what you are seeing out there and plus what your kind of outlook in next six months say? Sure you are right.
It has been stronger than we anticipated and I think even after the first quarters we were fairly cautious about the remainder of the year because of the one off activity in the first quarter.
We had seen strength throughout the year in both CMBS and in covered bonds.
And we have seen strength in European RMBS including covered bonds.
That is we do not expect either from comments for the closure real estate area to continue at the phase that it that it has earlier in the year if we have some upside surprise it might come from there.
I am a bit more optimistic about the run rate for structured finance than I was because of what we have seen in the second and third quarters.
But we do not think that it’s going to be as strong in the fourth quarter as what we’ve seen in Q2 and Q3.
Nonetheless I would point to that area for the potential of some upside.
And my last question what was the percent change of or your revenues for your Asia operation for ratings and also that number for Europe please? In the third quarter? Yes.
Well our growth in Europe in third quarter for Moody’s overall was 5%.
And for other international it was about 18%.
We'll go next Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
Hi covered bonds those came in a less field.
Or could you talk more about whether that’s a one time event or is that the only way Europe is financing its banking system these days.
Ed this the perfect question for me to turn over to Mitchell Madeline and I’m going to do that.
Well it was scripted.
Thank you Ed.
I think what is happening in covered bond is the two things.
One is that we see that an increased number of programs we’re rating and that’s the long term trend we’ve seen now for many months.
So we’re benefiting from that.
We have a very strong market position.
In term of Asia the Asians has actually been adversely impacted by the macro trends that have been impacted grossly markets in Europe.
So the actual issuance has been down.
But that has been largely offset by the increased number of programs we’re rating and our market position.
So the dollar amount was down but the number of programs was up? It's about the issuance.
Yeah.
That’s quarter on quarter.
Quarter-over-quarter.
Year on year it has been up significantly.
Yes because of the first part of the year actually the issuance was actually quite reversed.
Europe is frozen.
Can they do covered bond issuance in this environment in the fourth quarter? Yeah actually I would be pretty optimistic about the future of covered bond issue and because it is considered a safer form of financing.
They have backing of the financial institution and the collateral.
So it’s a secured form of financing and is particularly useful for institutions that need equity.
So in a stressed environment I think its going to continued to be a favored instrument class.
I understand some regulatory proposals or whatever to get covered bonds into the U.S or where is all that stuff right now.
Well you have the proposals for the immediate future.
I would not anticipate that that would become a significant market.
US institutions are generally in good position from a liquidity standpoint and this form of financing is probably most effective if there is a risk of worse environment or a liquidity mending environment.
And how does the rest of the structured world look these days any light on the horizon? Yes there are I would say several lights on the horizon.
There are also areas of darkness.
I think the CLO market has both in showing signs of life and the economics that support that market in terms of spreads.
I think I have an opportunity to encourage issues going forward particularly if Spreads come in.
The commercial real estate market although as we said we’re not expecting a strong year end still has a great deal of real estate financing that needs to occur and the other receivable sector has been strong throughout.
Some areas where issuances is more in doubt we’re going to all be waiting for more permanent resolution of US residential mortgage backed securities.
What role the project market will play in that sector and also you know areas such as credit card and student loans had been under more pressure mainly because of the performance of the asset class because of changes in regulation.
I know if I miss this could you give an update generally on issuance saying how you yield corporate in October we’re almost through with October I think my calendar’s right.
It’s still depressed I presume.
It's Linda; let me take a shot at that.
Yes through October it has been depressed.
There is a pipeline out there and there are a couple of different things that we watch.
We watch the VIX index which is Orchit Express which had been as high as 60 and is now come down to 30 when we were doing strongish ones in high-yield that was done to 15.
We would like to see that come in a little bit hopefully we’ll get there.
The other thing is we need to spreads to come in probably 75 to 100 basis points and today looks better in the markets.
We are noticing 7 deals in markets this morning none of them high-yield that I can see yet but we need spread to come in.
We need people to get back into more of a risk-on mode and we’ll see what happens but you know our revenue is sensitive to what happens in high yields and bank loans and you know those two can swing up in one direction or another.
Can you talk about what’s been driving Analytics at a fantastic track record in the last couple of quarters? Thank you.
Maybe we'll let Mark do that.
Yeah Mark you want to take that? Sure.
Eddy it’s a – as we said earlier that the research business is firmed very nicely so that's helping us software’s is been performing well and so organically that the business is firing on all cylinders to be honest.
And then we've also got the additional revenue from CSI which we've acquired last November.
But you give an organic growth rate that I miss out to the quarter? We did not.
Would you give one? We had not disclosed that.
Well our next question from Douglas Arthur with Evercore.
Yeah Linda I am sorry can you go back over the breakdown of quarter finances? It sounded for a second that you are moving dollars and percentages around.
I think what I was trying to do was to explain little bit about what the different before second quarter to third quarter which we think is instructive for everyone.
So let me run through this again let me look at the big dollar changes because I think that would be helpful.
So in second quarter of 2011 obviously issuance was very very strong.
We had a record quarter in corporate finance of $200 million of issuance.
For corporate finance for this quarter third quarter we down to $129 million so we lost about $70 million.
Now investment trade didn’t suffer quite as much.
We went from about $38 million to about $27 million but again the high yield business went from $45 million to $15 million and the bank loan business went from almost 47 to $21 million.
Other accounts a little bit more stable as well from sort of $74 million to $66 million.
So of the $70 million difference of the change is attributable $52 million that is high yield in bank loans.
So again we like to see those too such as comeback.
And again we would see a revenues swing to the upside or we could see revenue swing to the downside depending on what happens in the fourth quarter.
Particularly with the corporate business it is the toughest one for us to forecast right now because markets are obviously choppy.
We have weeks which are very strong in terms of issuance we have weeks which are almost closedown in terms of issuance.
The general view in November we’ll hearing for just high grade.
Expectations running $80 billion of issuance for high grade which should be about $20 billion a week which is good.
But we are also cognizant that we only got sort of six more weeks to the year to go here obviously we are moving into the holiday period so we’re trying to be thoughtful about this but it’s pretty tricky to forecast.
We’ll go next this one Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
Hi there.
Just a follow-up question with regard to issuance particularly with investment grade.
How should we think about the upcoming maturity schedule specifically if it means to refis now that corporate balance sheets of yours is flushed with cash has ever been should we think about the amount of that issuance relative to what’s maturing coming down as cash is used to delever and how do you think about that for projecting your turn? Sloan I don’t have that information right in front of me.
I would urge you to look at our third quarter investor deck which we’ll be putting up after we file the 10-Q which will be sort of middle of next week I think and we’ll have that chart in there which you might want to take a look at it.
The turn would be while we saw post forward in the first week second quarter we saw an air pocket or sort of a stalling out in the third quarter and you can tell by the numbers that I just gave to Doug and to Craig about what the magnitude of that was.
We’re hoping as we said that we’ll get back to a more typical high grade issuance month of $80 billion for the month of November running about $20 billion a week but again we have to wait and see.
What we’ve seen as the markets open up opportunistic strong issuers jump back in and they are continuing to finance.
Given that many corporates have a lot of cash offshore we think that people are still looking to finance and we see some cases of people financing for share buybacks also for CapEx and to a lesser extent it’s still there for M&amp;A activity.
The role of refinancing still exists but take a look at that next week when we put up the new investor deck.
Sloan just to add a little bit of on Linda's comments.
There is a very significant amount of refinancing that we can see having to occur over the next three to four years.
It has been pushed out from the height of the wall is lower in 2012 than it was early this year and that’s not surprising.
So what I think we would describe this as the refinancing that is going to occur is going to have an opportunistic flavor to it and if rates come in and there is an opportunity to refinance early at good spreads that’s going to be done.
What we are also looking to is the degree of financing that is going to occur out of the refi market as a result of M&amp;A activity capital raising for general corporate purposes share repurchase and the like and that’s what we will associate with issuance activity in a reinvigorated economic environment.
So its trade-off between the very low rate that we might see in a more of a refi and environment and perhaps higher rates but more narrow spreads in a stronger overall economic environment that would drive financing for different reasons other than just refi.
Okay that’s all very helpful and I think that one other bit of my question will be though as we look at the wall of financing as we look at those numbers about what’s an assuring in each of the upcoming years.
Should we think about the ratio being one-to-one so if say a $100 was maturing should a $100 be issued or you think there can be something less than that as company delever? I think its going to depend on how companies feel about the overall economic environment and business expansion at the end of the day.
I don’t think they are going to be delivering if they are in a business expansion mode and we would see more of a one-to-one.
If they continue to feel that risk is bad as they did in August and September then we may very well see them using some of their cash to delever.
I think also that a lot of finance executives that have come through this period are thinking about having more cash on hand on a permanent basis then they would have before the financial crisis.
And so I don’t think that a return to historical cash on hand level is necessarily the central case.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just one other question on the Moody’s analytics as one of you guys could touch on the Wall Street cost cutting potential headcount reduction and what impact that might have in that segment? Sure I think I am going to let Mark add color to the remarks I have or correct them if I misspeak.
But I think there are two things that act in somewhat offsetting ways one is if there is a good headcount at our customers fewer number seats that may limit the number of licensees that we have for those seats and reduction in users per customer.
On the other hand the reduction in work force at firms impacts what they were able to do they themselves and they go outside and look for expertise in risk management risk modeling risk metrics that we provide and that provides a very good sales opportunity for us and I think we would characterize the second factor as being more powerful than the first.
Ray it's Mark I agree with that I think that’s correct characterization of where we are.
Thus far we haven’t see the head count reductions that it had been announced at the banks have not affected the business.
We haven’t seen any kind of a material pull back on spending at our big financial institutions customers.
Certainly the stories we were reading in the press and hearing about the large numbers of staff reductions and what appears to be more emphases on expense management that doesn’t make us feel great but it’s a practical matter it has not yet presented itself or manifested itself in undermining any of our sales activity.
Okay.
And Mark is there a time seasonally when we would expect that to through if it did? Well I mean I would reflect back on what we went through in late 2008 and through most of 2009.
I don’t think that was seasonal that was more event driven you had the aggressive pull back post Lehman and so forth.
Certainly as we move in to 2012 people are now putting their budgets together and making their spending commitments for next year.
If we saw a short pull back we would start seeing it now and as I said we have not yet seen that but obviously it’s something we are going to look at very closely over the next couple of months.
Thank you at this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Ray McDaniel for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
This concludes the third quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call would be available after 3.30 p.m.
Easter Time on Moody’s website.
Thank you very much everybody.
Thank you ladies and gentleman for your participation this will conclude today’s conference call.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Moody’s Corporation Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I’d like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference for questions and answers following the presentation.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody’s results for 2011.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Moody’s released its results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our Web site at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Corporation will lead this morning’s conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody’s Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today’s remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the management’s discussion and analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our Web site and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Web site.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I’ll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining today’s call.
I’ll begin by summarizing Moody’s fourth quarter and full year 2011 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights and I’ll then speak to recent regulatory developments and finish with comments on our outlook for 2012.
After our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to respond to your questions.
Fourth quarter revenue of $567 million was flat as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
With strong performance by Moody’s Analytics and global structured finance offsetting a decline from the strong prior year period in corporate finance.
Operating income for the fourth quarter was $172 million a 12% decrease from the prior year period.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter of $0.43 decreased 26% year-over-year.
For full year 2011 Moody’s revenue of $2.3 billion was a 12% increase from full year 2010.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted Moody’s Investors Service revenue by $28 million and was negligible for Moody’s Analytics.
Operating income of $888 million increased 15% from a year ago and included a $4 million favorable impact from foreign currency translations.
Revenue at Moody’s Investors Service was $1.6 billion an increase of 12% from last year.
Moody’s Analytics revenue was $712 million 14% higher than the prior year.
Diluted earnings per share of $2.49 for 2011 increased 16% and included a legacy tax benefit of $0.03 in the second quarter of 2011 as well as other tax benefits of $0.09 in the second and third quarters of 2011 resulting from a favorable tax ruling in a settlement of state tax audits.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I’ll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody’s total revenue for the quarter was essentially flat at $567 million.
The impact of foreign currency translation was negligible.
U.S.
fourth quarter revenue decreased 3% to $286 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 4% to $281 million and represented 50% of Moody’s total revenue up from 48% in the year ago period.
Recurring revenue of $318 million represented 56% of the total compared to 52% in the prior year period.
And looking now at each of our businesses Moody’s Investors Service revenue for the quarter was $367 million a 4% decrease year-over-year.
U.S.
revenue decreased 9% over the prior year period while outside the U.S.
revenue increased 2% and represented 44% of total ratings revenue.
Global corporate finance revenue in the fourth quarter decreased 14% from the year ago period to $141 million.
Revenue was down 13% in the U.S.
while outside the U.S.
revenue was lower by 16% year-over-year.
The decline in global corporate finance revenue reflected weaker issuance primarily in speculative grade bonds and loans in both the U.S.
and Europe.
Global structured finance revenue for the fourth quarter was $87 million 14% above the prior year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 13% year-over-year primarily due to strength in asset-backed securities.
Most other areas of U.S.
structured finance market remained weak.
Non-U.S.
structured finance revenue rose 15% driven primarily by European asset-backed and residential mortgage backed securities as well as covered bonds in Europe and Asia.
Global financial institutions revenue of $67 million increased 2% from the same quarter in 2010 with U.S.
revenue declining 7% while non-U.S.
revenue grew 7%.
Global revenue for public project and Infrastructure declined 6% year-over-year to $72 million.
Revenue decreased 14% in the U.S.
reflecting a reduction in new financing for projects and infrastructure programs.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 14% primarily due to gains in the infrastructure sector.
And turning now to Moody’s Analytics global revenue for Moody’s Analytics of $200 million is up 10% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
U.S.
revenue grew by 15% year-over-year to $81 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased by 7% to $119 million and represented 60% of total Moody’s Analytics revenue.
Globally revenue from research data and analytics of $115 million increased 6% from the prior-year period due primarily to higher customer retention rates and represented 58% of total MA revenue.
Revenue from risk management software of $56 million fell 3% from last year’s record revenue in this segment.
Due to the variable nature of project timing risk management software revenue remained subject to quarterly volatility.
The December 2011 acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert had a negligible impact on software revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Professional services revenue doubled to $29 million reflecting both organic growth and the acquisition of a majority stake in Copal Partners in November 2011.
Moody’s fourth quarter expenses were $395 million an increase of 7% compared to fourth quarter 2010.
The impact of foreign currency translation on fourth quarter expenses was negligible.
Moody’s reported operating margin for the quarter was 30.3% down from 34.8% in the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily due to increased head count and technology investments to support growth initiatives as well as acquisition related costs.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 37% compared with 19.5% for the prior-year period.
The increase in effective tax rate was primarily due to utilization of foreign tax credits and lower state taxes in 2010.
Now I’ll provide an update on capital allocation.
Moody’s increased its quarterly dividend on December 14 by 14% to $0.16 per share of common stock.
During the fourth quarter of 2011 Moody’s did not repurchase any shares but did issue 0.4 million shares under employee stock based compensation plans.
For the full year 2011 Moody’s repurchased 11 million shares at a total cost of $334 million for an average price of $30.30 per share and issued 2.9 million shares under employee based stock compensation plans.
Outstanding shares as of December 31 2011 totaled $222 million representing a 4% decline from a year earlier.
As of year-end Moody’s had $0.9 billion of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program.
As of December 31 Moody’s had $1.2 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Cash and cash equivalents were $760 million an increase of $100 million from a year earlier.
Approximately 70% of our cash holdings are maintained outside the U.S.
We remain committed to using our strong cash flow to create value for shareholders while maintaining sufficient liquidity.
Share repurchase remains subject to available cash flow and other capital allocation decisions.
And with that I’ll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I’ll continue with an update on regulatory developments.
In the U.S.
regulatory authorities are moving forward on implementing the various parts of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Following the SEC’s summer comment deadline for rule proposals relevant to NRSROs the SEC recently revised its timetable and is expected to adopt final rules by year-end 2012.
It is also expected to publish its feasibility study on establishing an alternative system for allocating rating assignments for structured finance products otherwise known as the Franken Amendment by about the same time.
Both banking and securities regulatory authorities are in the process of reviewing their use of ratings and regulation and considering alternative measures as replacements.
Turing to Europe Moody’s was registered in the European Union in late October 2011 and as I have indicated on previous calls the transfer of oversight of registered credit rating agencies to the European Securities Markets Authority ESMA became effective in July 2011.
Our European operations are therefore under the full examination and oversight authority of ESMA and we expect ESMA to publish the first report on its review of the industry sometime in the second quarter of 2012.
In addition the European Commission has proposed a new round of regulatory measures for the rating agency industry.
Specifically the suggested measures address among other ideas the use of ratings and regulation business models competition rotation of rating agencies and liability.
The various concepts the Commission has introduced in its proposal focus on how and to what extent rating agencies operate in the EU.
If implemented as currently constructed however the Commission suggested measures may have significant and negative ramifications on the European credit markets.
Consequently the debate on CRA 3 has been active and ongoing since its formal release by the Commission.
In particular on January 24 the European Parliament held a hearing through which it solicited views from a broad spectrum of market participants who generally sounded a cautionary note.
Because of the tone of the debate thus far it is possible that during the coming months the Commission’s proposals will be amended.
The next stages of the legislative process include deliberation and potential amendments by both the European Parliament and the Council of European Finance Ministers.
The Parliament Council and Commission must all confer and agree on a final text.
We expect this process to take anywhere from 4 months to 8 months during which time we will continue to consult with relevant authorities and market participants as to the impact of the specific proposals.
While new rules entail various changes in our rating agency processes and operations and require us to adapt our business we will not alter our fundamental objective to provide the highest quality independent credit opinions research and analysis.
We will also continue to advocate for globally consistent approaches that align with the G20’s statements and directives.
Before concluding today’s remarks by reviewing our 2012 outlook I’ll briefly comment on our acquisitions of a majority stake in Copal Partners and of Barrie &amp; Hibbert during the fourth quarter of 2011.
Copal is an India-based outsource research and consulting business that strongly complements the research analysis and professional services offerings of Moody’s Analytics.
The acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert a Scotland-based leading provider of analytical tools for the global insurance industry is consistent with our ongoing commitment to build a comprehensive suite of enterprise risk management solutions for financial institutions.
Together these acquisitions are expected to be accretive to EPS in 2012.
I will conclude this morning’s prepared remarks by discussing our full year guidance for 2012.
Moody’s outlook for 2012 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability and business investment spending merger and acquisition activity and consumer borrowing and securitization.
There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ from these assumptions Moody’s results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates.
We expect business conditions to remain challenging particularly early in the year but still project growth across most areas of our business in 2012.
For Moody’s overall the company expects full year 2012 growth to grow in the high single-digit to low double-digit percent range.
Full year 2012 expenses are also projected to increase in the high single to low double-digit percent range.
Full year 2012 operating margin is projected to be approximately 39% which includes the full year impact of our fourth quarter 2011 acquisitions.
Our effective tax rate is projected to be approximately 33%.
We continue – we expect to continue share repurchase subject to available cash flow market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
The company expects diluted earnings per share for the full year 2012 in the range of $2.62 to $2.72.
For the global MIS business revenue for the full year 2012 is expected to increase in the mid-single digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MIS revenue is expected to increase in the low double-digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is expected to be about flat.
Corporate finance revenue is forecasted to grow in the high single digit percent range.
Revenue from each of structured finance and financial institutions is projected to be flat to slightly down while public project and Infrastructure finance revenue is expected to increase in the low-teens percent range.
For Moody’s Analytics full year 2012 revenue is expected to increase in the high teens percent range both in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
Revenue growth is projected in the mid single digit percent range for research data and analytics and in the low 20%s range for risk management software reflecting growth in the core business as well as the December 2011 acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert.
Professional services revenue is projected to grow by approximately 70% inclusive of revenue from the late 2011 acquisition of a majority stake in Copal Partners and continued growth in our legacy businesses.
This concludes our prepared remarks and joining us for the question and answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investors Service; and Mark Almeida President of Moody’s Analytics.
We’d be pleased to take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
So Linda I was hoping you could give us a little more color on the drivers of cost growth why the acceleration in the fourth quarter? Sure Peter happy to talk about that.
I think first though we should note that 2011 was a year of record revenue for Moody’s and we’re back above our 2007 high.
So we think we should get that into the mix Peter.
Let me talk a little bit about fourth quarter 2011 as compared to fourth quarter of 2010.
And the fourth quarter of 2010 we put up $0.58 and the number is $0.43 for the fourth quarter of 2011.
The main bridge that gets you there is just a difference in the tax rate.
We had an abnormally low tax rate in fourth quarter of 2010.
As we had said earlier the tax rate for 2010 was about 19% and we’re running about 37% for the fourth quarter of 2011.
So basically we have a doubling of the effective tax rate for the quarter.
That change gets you about $0.12.
And then the remainder of the $0.03 to get to the bridge we have some deal costs from these acquisitions we’ve done in the fourth quarter.
We had some other expenses including a sales tax matter and a contribution to our foundation.
And then we’ve got some other things in terms of bringing some IT costs and other systems online.
So the main driver in the difference for the fourth quarter of 2011 is really the tax rate and there’s not much more to it than that.
I guess I was focused Linda on the operating expenses which were up about 7.5% year-to-year versus 3.4% growth in the -? Sure.
Let me try to do that bridge for you also Peter.
For the fourth quarter of 2010 expenses were $367.7 million and then they were $395 million for the fourth quarter of 2011.
So we’re looking at about a $28 million increase over that period.
Basically it splits as I’ve mentioned about a third a third a third in terms of deal costs.
The two deals that we did in the fourth quarter were expensive to get done.
We had a success fee in the Copal deal which is unusual for us to pay so take $9-ish million on deal costs and other things related to those acquisitions.
Another third of it another chunk of it would be as I said another tax matter which revolves around sales tax and a donation to our foundation the sort of two costs in the other category.
And then thirdly we have these systems we’re bringing online and some consulting fees mainly to get ready for Dodd-Frank.
So basically those are the three components of the $28 million of expense difference between this year’s fourth quarter and last year’s fourth quarter.
Got it.
And then could you just – while we’re on the expenses tell me what the incentive comp accrual was in the fourth quarter? Sure.
Incentive comp accrual was actually down from last year and as we had said last year’s fourth quarter we finished very strong in the fourth quarter last year it was $42.8 million.
This year it was only $30.3 million.
That was still up sequentially though from the third quarter’s $25 million but more even over the quarters of 2011.
Got it.
I guess the – really the important issue Linda is just I’m interested in your perspective on what we could anticipate in terms of long-term margin.
You’re guiding to flat margin next year.
Are you basically retreating on your expectation that perhaps we could get back to low 40% margins? Peter this is Ray.
But for the acquisitions that we made in the fourth quarter of 2011 I think we would have been projecting approximately a 40% margin this year.
Okay.
But what about next year Ray? Again subject to whether we engage in additional acquisitions I would still say that our outlook is to have 40% plus margin and a double-digit growth on average for the firm.
Okay great.
And then last thing I will get off the strength in structured finance you mentioned specifically I guess the international business yet the guidance is somewhat cautious and – with regard to structured finance for 2012.
What’s going on in that market? And I guess a corollary to that you’d mentioned in the past that perhaps you’re gaining a little bit of market share relative to the competition.
Do you think that’s still the case? Well let me start with 2011 because I did comment during the year last year that we had what I consider to be some one-off activity in the early part of the year and we that we expected the run rate on that business to decrease.
We didn’t – as it turned out we really didn’t see that.
The business held up throughout the year better than I had anticipated and we are currently looking at that run rate to continue through 2012.
Obviously there are going to be areas of relative strength and relative weakness in structured finance.
For example we still don’t see any significant RMBS activity here in the U.S.
and we will have to see what the impact in Europe is of some of the one-time items that were driving business last year.
But the ABS market in particular both in the U.S.
and in Europe has held up well.
And to the extent that there is a willingness to – well to the extent that there are interest rates and spreads that make securitization attractive there is potentially some upside to that business.
But right now we would say that we expect the run rate from 2011 to be reflected in the business in 2012.
As to share I think that’s more – probably more driven by which parts of structured finance happen to be active or inactive at any given point in time.
There are some areas where we have strength relative to our competitors in terms of our analytic framework and there are some other areas where issuers and investors may prefer the business from our competitors.
So it really is driven by which areas are active from quarter-to-quarter.
Thanks Ray and Linda.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from William Bird with Lazard Capital.
Good morning.
Ray I was wondering if you could just talk a bit about the pipeline.
What are you seeing in terms of how issuance is developing and kind of as you look at the year I guess how do you see growth developing in MIS? Sure happy to talk about that.
You can see from our guidance that we’re expecting both the financial institutions and structured finance areas to be flat perhaps slightly down but essentially flat.
We do expect to see growth in the public project and infrastructure finance area and we expect to see that all the way through the year.
The – probably the most interesting area is corporate finance and I think right now the pipelines could be characterized as steady but probably not more than steady.
A little bit of an uptick in high yield recently.
But what we’re seeing and this is very recent is an improvement in market tone volatility has come down spreads have been coming in and those are all leading indicators of what helps build the pipeline.
So early January I would say we were pretty cautious about how the pipelines looked and what that meant for the business.
As I said more recently some of the leading indicators are more promising.
We do still expect that the second half of the year is going to be the stronger half.
We do not expect this year to look like last year.
So we would not anticipate having strong growth in the first half this year in the corporate area off of what we saw last year because it was so strong last year.
Ray...
So – it’s Linda.
I just wanted to give you some more details on January and February issuance.
January investment grade issuance is on track with 2011 about an $80 billion issuance month for the month of January.
Interestingly there are seven deals in the market today and activity has been very active in February so far.
What’s interesting is if you look at the forward calendar for high yield we see 13 high yield deals in the pipeline which is better than we’ve seen for quite some time.
Spreads are sort of around 650 basis points or over for high yield right now.
If we can get under 600 basis points we think we’re going to start to see a lot of those deals coming.
So conditions are for this moment and again to follow-up on what Ray said can change it any moment but for this moment conditions are looking relatively good and you’ll see a lot of companies coming to market getting record low all-in financing costs which obviously is very helpful to our business.
And we still think that 2012 is going to be characterized or going to reflect at the macroeconomic conditions and to the extent that there are orderly resolutions of some of the stresses in Europe in particular that should build confidence.
If those resolutions are more disorderly I think we would see a movement away from risk.
So macroeconomics continue to play a big part of the story.
Ray is MIS likely to have positive revenue growth in the first quarter? Well we don’t want to try to provide quarterly guidance but I think what we’re seeing in the first quarter of this year is at this point reflective of what we were seeing in the second half of last year with momentum building slowly throughout the year.
So it’s really the second half of this year that I think we’re going to see revenue growth as opposed to the first half.
And then Linda I was just wondering if you’d talk a little more about expenses just prospectively just trying to understand why the flat margins on expected high single-digit low double-digit revenue growth? Sure.
I think what Ray was trying to say is our margins would be at 40% and we would have margin expansion but for the interesting effect of accounting for the acquisitions that we’ve done.
So we have to report by GAAP and we report with those acquisitions in so it appears that the margin is flat.
Let’s talk about expenses for 2012.
I think you ought to start the year at about $370 million for the first quarter for expenses and then I think similar to what we advised you in previous years you should ramp expenses probably by about $40 million over the course of the year.
Our expenses tend to move up in the fourth quarter as you’ve obviously adjusted your – so that would be the way to lay it in for your modeling for 2012.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will now hear from Michael Meltz with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
I think two or maybe two-and-half questions for you.
On the question that Bill asked can you just speak a bit more about earnings progression? I guess Linda what you’re saying is costs are going to be up pretty big in the first quarter.
And I assume revenues will – even talking first half if you want to talk that way.
But you’re assuming probably pretty low to no revenue growth in the first half costs up low double-digit so earnings down pretty big in the first half and then ramping in the second half.
Is that the way to think about it? Michael the calendarization of this year is particularly challenging and I may ask Ray to speak to this as well.
It’s very hard to know because frankly we were a little more pessimistic about the first quarter now we’re feeling a bit more optimistic about the first quarter.
So we’re going to have to see if these conditions hold.
If they do I think we would feel a little bit better.
But I think your view is generally correct that we would expect as Ray said the second half to be the stronger half.
Ray anything further? Yes in addition to saying that the second half is going to be stronger I think what you see is the steady progression of expense growth although not to the same degree as we had in 2011.
So that $40 million expense growth should be straight-lined through the year but revenue stronger in the second half and again I would expect that we’re probably going to have the lightest revenue in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then in terms of your MIS guidance for the year the 4% to 6% does that essentially imply mostly pricing and little to no volume growth? Can you talk about that? It’s – I mean we do have some pricing included in that.
We do expect to have growth in several areas.
Where we probably will not see growth is in Europe and if there is an orderly as I said an orderly resolution in Europe and a return of confidence that would provide some upside against our current projections.
So we expect to see a stronger profile in the U.S.
and in our non-Europe international business at this point.
Okay.
And then my last question.
The – can you speak broadly about what’s in your guidance in terms of regulatory impact? I don’t know if there is any – it’s probably too early for any top line impact but is there – where are regulatory costs trending year-on-year in 2012 please? Yeah.
While I would have hoped that we would have stabilized the incremental increase in costs associated with regulation and compliance in 2012 I don’t think that that’s the central case at this point.
I think we are going to have incremental compliance and regulatory expense again this year.
I think it will be less than we were forecasting for last year so perhaps in the $10 million to $15 million range as opposed to the $15 million to $25 million range that we were talking about last year.
And Michael a caution on that would be we can’t forecast CRA 3 obviously but we would see that the earliest that would come into effect is fourth quarter of 2012 but that’s probably a 2013 matter for the most part.
Okay.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Yeah Ray I just wanted to follow-up on your expectation for flat non – I believe it’s for flat non-U.S.
ratings revenue growth in 2012 I think you started to answer that in the last question.
Is that mostly because of caution on the European situation? Yes.
That is the big driver of our expectations on the international ratings side the European situation.
We do expect to see growth in other international Asia Latin America.
Because this – I mean you got several boosts to that business in 2011 one you mentioned on the structured side which lasted longer than expected.
The other boost seemingly was from the sort of slow inevitable move towards disintermediation where more companies are now getting ratings that previously were dependent on bank loan financing and they’re now worried about that pipeline or access.
So is that – you don’t expect that to continue or is it going to level off? We do expect the disintermediation trend to continue.
That I believe is a long-term secular trend not only for Europe but elsewhere internationally.
For 2012 the – we think that both the structured finance business internationally and the financial institutions business internationally are going to be down and the principal reason in both cases is because of our expectations for Europe.
So we expect to have a decline in European financial institution revenue and European structured finance revenue compared to 2011.
But we expect to have that in both cases largely offset by growth in the U.S.
Okay.
Thank you.
And Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners your line is now open.
Yes.
Hi.
A couple things.
First can you update us on the CalPERS Abu Dhabi court cases first? Yeah.
Sure Craig.
The – starting with the CalPERS case I think as you know that the second part of the anti-SLAPP motion was decided earlier in the year.
And while we won the first part of the motion we lost on the second part of the motion which allows CalPERS to proceed with some discovery.
What’s unusual about this is that this decision is immediately appealable and we will be doing so and the case will be stayed until that appeal has been determined.
With respect to Abu Dhabi discovery was completed in December and we filed a motion for summary judgment in January in that case.
Okay.
Then a housekeeping question here.
Linda can you break down on a percentage basis transaction versus non-transaction related revenues within structured finance corporate financial and PPIF please? I have a follow up.
Yes sure.
For the fourth quarter 2011 Craig for the rating agency first let me go through CFG transaction was 65% and relationship was 35%; for structured 54% transaction and 46% relationship; FIG 23% transaction 77% relationship; PPIF 60% transaction 40% relationship; rating agency as a whole was 54% 46%; and total for Moody’s Analytics 26% transaction 74% relationship; the balance for the company 44% transaction and 56% relationship.
I’m sorry did I miss the corporate line there? If you did it’s 65% 35% transaction and relationship.
Okay.
And then the other housekeeping question I’d like to ask can you break down the percentages by sub segment within the same four if you would ABS versus RMBS CREF derivatives and just the other three areas too please? Yes.
Thank you.
For Corporate the revenue split for fourth quarter 2011 were as follows: investment grade was 25% of the revenue high yield 11% of the revenue bank loans 15% and other was 49%.
For structured for the fourth quarter of 2011 ABS was 34% RMBS 27% commercial real estate 17% and derivatives 23%.
Going on to financial institutions banking was 71% of revenue in the fourth quarter insurance was 24% and managed investments were 6%.
And then finally for PPIF for the fourth quarter public finance and sovereign were 52% of revenue munis 8% project and infrastructure 39%.
Appreciate that.
And then also can you talk about these two acquisitions a little bit further what we should expect I mean can you size them for us for this new year and also what the D&amp;A impact is for 2012? Sure Craig.
I’ll give you the total D&amp;A number first and let Mark get warmed up to explain the acquisitions that we’ve done because I think as a group we feel the analyst community is a little bit light on what we’re trying to accomplish here.
The D&amp;A number you should use for 2012 going to be about $100 million.
Some of that obviously is partially due to these acquisitions and partially because we’re bringing some more systems online.
And with that I’ll turn it over to Mark and he’ll give you details.
Sure.
Craig just to give you a sense of what we’re doing as Ray described we acquired Copal Partners in November and that’s I think an important extension of what we’re doing in the RD&amp;A space.
Copal serves substantially the same customer set that we serve with our research and our data and our other related services.
So we see this as a very nice synergistic opportunity to expand our footprint with those customers.
And then on the – with the Barrie &amp; Hibbert acquisition that we closed in December that’s just a market extension within the software business and it allows us to have a much more compelling offering for insurance companies and will let us take advantage of what we see as a very robust opportunity associated with the Solvency II and related regulations that are being imposed on insurance companies.
So we see both of those as very nice fits with various parts of the Moody’s Analytics business.
In terms of the scale I think we’d indicated before that about half of our revenue growth in 2011 was organic and about half was from acquisitions that we made primarily the CSI acquisition that we made in late 2010.
And that can – that’ll be – those proportions will be the same roughly the same in 2012.
So again you should expect that about half of our revenue growth in 2012 will be organic and about half from these recently acquired businesses.
And then lastly if I could slip one more in here.
Ray your optimism for PPIF for 2012 up low-teens I think you said in your press release obviously 2011 was up about 2% give or take for your company.
Is part of it just making up for that but also is this the way the calendar falls for the debt maturity to that area 2012 give you the optimism or is there something else going on? No.
I would say the only thing I would add to how you’ve already sized it up Craig is that remember early last year there was a pretty significant concern around the public finance sector the municipal sector here in the U.S.
and so we had relatively light performance in U.S.
municipals early in the year which we do not expect to be replayed this year.
Other than that it’s really the global infrastructure story which is going to be supporting the growth in that business.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll now go to Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
I apologize would you repeat the cost question was it $40 million and then throughout the year up? Sure.
Ed I assume you’re talking about what’s the 2012 -? Right.
Okay yeah I ask that everybody – $370 million and – $370 million and then ramp it up $40 million to get to the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
And Michael Meltz with JPMorgan.
Hey.
I just wanted one clarification.
Linda I think you just helped us on the cost side here so you’re saying D&amp;A is going to be up $20-something million year-over-year.
That’s about a 100 bps to the margin.
Correct? Yes.
Okay.
And what about on – when we think about free cash flow how’s CapEx going to trend in 2012 versus 2011? Hang on a second.
Let me get that for you.
I think CapEx for 2011 you probably want to use $60 million to $70 million Michael.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
And we have no additional questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
I just want to thank everyone for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking to you again in April.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation and have a great rest of your day.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody’s Corporation first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for question-and-answers following the presentation.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody’s first quarter results for 2012.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Moody’s released its results for the first quarter 2012 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Corporation will lead this morning’s conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody’s Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found towards the end of our earnings release.
Today’s remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the management’s discussion and analysis sections and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I’ll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today’s call.
I’ll begin by summarizing Moody’s first quarter 2012 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights and I’ll then speak to recent regulatory developments and finish with comments on our outlook for 2012.
After our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to respond to your questions.
First quarter revenue of $647 million increased 12% over the prior year period primarily reflecting increased corporate and public project and infrastructure debt issuance as well as continued solid performance from Moody’s Analytics.
All reporting units of both Moody’s Investor Service and Moody’s Analytics grew in the first quarter of 2012 compared to the prior year period.
Operating income for the first quarter was $269 million an 8% increased from the prior-year period.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter of $0.76 increased 13% year-over-year.
While the level of issuance activity was strong in first quarter we remain cautious about market conditions for the remainder of the year.
As a result we are reaffirming our 2012 EPS guidance of $2.62 to $2.72 but now expect to be toward the upper end of the range.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I’ll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody’s total revenue for the quarter increased 12% to $647 million.
The US first quarter revenue increased 14% to $344 million while revenue outside the US grew 10% to $303 million and represented 47% of Moody’s total revenue down slightly from the 48% in the year-ago period.
Recurring revenue of $330 million represented 51% of the total essentially flat to the prior year period.
Now looking at each of our businesses starting with Moody’s Investor Service revenue for the quarter was $453 million a 10% increase year-over-year.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted Moody’s Investor Service revenue by $4 million.
US revenue for MIS increased 13% over the prior year period while revenue outside the US increased 6% and represented 43% of total ratings revenue.
Global corporate finance revenue in the first quarter increased 10% from the year-ago period to $201 million.
Revenue grew 8% in the US while outside the US revenue increased 15% year-over-year.
The growth in global corporate finance revenue reflected stronger investment grade and solid speculative grade bond issuance activity.
Global structured finance revenue for the first quarter was $94 million 5% above the prior-year period.
In the US revenue increased 15% year-over-year primarily due to strength asset backed securities and commercial real estate.
Most other areas of the US structured finance market remained weak.
International structured finance revenue was down 2% reflecting weaker issuance volumes in European asset-backed securities in the first quarter of 2012 as well as demand in the first quarter of 2011 for ratings of outstanding securitization placed with the European Government sponsored facility.
Global financial institutions revenue of $79 million increased 2% from the same quarter of 2011.
US revenue was essentially flat as compared to the first quarter of 2011 while non-US revenue grew 4%.
Global revenue for the public project and infrastructure business rose 23% year-over-year to $79 million.
Revenue was up 37% in the US reflecting strength in both public finance and project finance.
Non-US revenue increased 4% primarily due to gains in the infrastructure sector in Latin America and Asia.
And turning now to Moody’s Analytics.
Global revenue for Moody’s Analytics of $194 million was up 18% from the first quarter of 2011.
The impact of foreign currency translation was negligible.
US revenue grew by 19% year over year to $85 million.
Non-US revenue increased by 17% to $109 million and represented 56% of total Moody’s Analytics revenue.
Globally revenue from research data and analytics of $120 million increased 9% from the prior-year period due primarily to increased sales of credit research and related data and represented 62% of the total MA revenue.
Revenue from enterprise risk solutions formerly known as risk management software of $48 million grew 11% from last year driven by the December 2011 acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert.
Due to the variable nature of the project timing enterprise risk solution revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Professional services revenue more than doubled to $27 million reflecting both the acquisition of the majority stake in Copal Partners in November 2011 and growth in our existing training and education business.
Turning now to expenses.
Moody’s first quarter expenses were $378 million an increase of 16% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Incremental compensation expense which accounted for over half of the growth was primarily driven by additional headcount in the operating businesses and from the acquisition.
Other incremental expenses were largely composed of non-compensation expenses related to the acquisitions including purchased price amortization and IT related costs.
The impact of foreign currency translation on first quarter expenses was negligible.
Moody's reported operating margin for the quarter was 41.6% down from 43.3% from the first quarter of 2011.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 32.1% compared with 33.2% for the prior-year period.
Decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to benefits derived from international tax initiatives and tax audit settlement partially offset by miscellaneous discrete items.
Now I will provide an update on capital allocation.
During the first quarter of 2012 Moody's did not repurchase any shares but did issue 2.6 million shares under employee stock based compensation plans.
Outstanding shares as of March 31 2012 totaled $225 million representing a 1% decline from a year ago.
As of quarter end Moody's had 900 million of share repurchase authority remaining under its current programs and as we have previously noted we still expect to repurchase approximately 200 million of Moody's shares over the course of 2012 subject to available cash flow market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation provision.
As of March 31 Moody's had $1.2 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Additionally on April 18 2012 we renewed our $1 billion credit facility for another five-year term.
Cash and cash equivalents were $815 million an increase of $95 million from a year earlier.
Approximately 80% of our cash holdings are maintained outside the US.
We remain committed to using our strong cash flow to create value for shareholders while maintaining sufficient liquidity.
And with that I will turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I will continue with an update on regulatory developments.
Starting in the US regulatory authorities are moving forward on implementing the various parts of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Following the SEC’s summer 2011 common deadline for rule proposals relevant to NRSROs the SEC revised its timetable and is expected to adopt final rules by year-end 2012.
Within the same time the SEC is also is expected to publish its feasibility study on establishing an alternative system for allocating rating assignments for structured finance products otherwise known as the Franken Amendment.
Turing to Europe Moody’s was registered in the European Union in late October 2011 and as I have indicated on previous calls the transfer of oversight of registered credit rating agencies to the European Securities and Markets Authority or ESMA became effective in July 2011.
Our European operations are therefore under the full examination and oversight authority of ESMA and ESMA published its first inspection report in March.
ESMA report had not identified any breaches of the current regulation by Moody’s.
As discussed on previous calls in November 2011 the European Commission release new regulatory reform proposals for the rating agency industry known as CRA 3 that seek to address among other ideas the use of ratings and regulation business models competition rotation of rating agencies and liability.
If implemented as currently constructed the Commission suggested measures are likely to have significant negative implications for Europe’s credit markets.
Consequently the debate on CRA 3 which began in the European Parliament and European Council of Finance Ministers in mid-January has involved the growing number of market participants.
The focus on the debate has been on the potential negative impact of CRA 3 on the broader European economy and the ability of European insurers to access funds.
Because of the tone of the debate thus far it is possible that during the coming months the Commission’s proposals will be amended.
The next stages of the legislative process include deliberation and potential amendments by both the European Parliament and the Council of European Finance Ministers.
Parliament Council and Commission must also confer and agree on final text.
We expect this process to be completed by year-end and we will continue to consult with relevant authorities and market participants as of the impact of the specific proposals.
While new rules could entail various changes in our rating processes and operations and require us adapt our business.
We will not abandon our fundamental objective to provide the highest quality independent credit opinions research and analysis.
We will also continue to advocate for globally consistent approaches that align with the G20 statements and directives.
I will conclude this morning’s prepared remarks by discussing on full-year guidance.
Moody’s outlook for 2012 is based on assumption about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability and business investment spending merger and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ from these assumptions Moody’s results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency transition at end of quarter exchange rates.
As I mentioned earlier we are re-affirming our 2012 EPS guidance of $2.62 to $2.72 but now expect to be toward the upper end of the range.
That we have re-affirmed our EPS guidance certain components of 2012 guidance have been modified to reflect our current view of credit market condition.
For Moody’s overall the company now expects full-year 2012 revenue to grow in the low double-digit percent range.
Full-year 2012 expenses are also projected to increase in the low double digit percent range.
Full-year 2012 operating margin is still projected to be approximately 39% which included the full-year impact of our fourth quarter 2011 acquisitions.
Effective tax rate is still projected to be approximately 33%.
As Linda mentioned earlier we still expect approximately $200 million of share repurchase over the course of 2012 subject to available cash flow market conditions and other on going capital allocation decisions.
For the global MIS business revenue for full-year 2012 is now expected to increase in the mid-to-high single digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MIS revenue is expected to increase in the low double-digit percentage range while non-U.S.
revenue is now expected to increase in the low single digit percentage range.
The finance revenue is now forecasted to grow in the low double digit percentage range.
Revenue from each of the structured finance and financial institution is now projected to be flat to slightly up while public project and infrastructure finances is now expected to increase in the mid-teens percent range.
For Moody’s analytics for full-year 2012 revenue is still expected to increase in the high-teens percent range both inside and outside the U.S.
Revenue growth is still projected in mid-single digit percent range for our research data and analytics and in the low 20% range for enterprise risk solutions reflecting growth in the core business as well of December 2011 acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert.
Professional services revenue is now projected to grow by approximately 80% inclusive of the revenue from the late 2011 acquisition of a majority stake in Copal Partners and continued growth in our existing training and education businesses.
This concludes our prepared remarks and joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investors Service and Mark Almeida President of Moody’s analytics.
We will be pleased to take any questions you may have.
(Operator Instructions) We will hear first from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
So Linda I was hoping you might give us a little more color on what's driving the rate of cost growth.
And I ask this in the context of trying to understand why perhaps we’re not seeing a little bit more margin leverage in the ratings business given the strengthened revenues? And the last part of this question is has your thoughts evolved in terms of where you think margins can go in the ratings business over the next couple of years? Thank you.
Sure Peter let me try to tackle your question by comparing our margin this quarter which is 41.6% as compared to first quarter of last year which was 43.3%.
So our margin is lower in the first quarter of 2012 by 170 basis points.
And as we noted in the script about half of that is acquisition related or 90 basis points.
Of that the purchase price amortization for the acquisitions was about half of the 90 basis points or 45.
The other piece of that 80 basis points was IT related costs.
And we have a little bit of an anomalous situation here on the IT front as we’re getting ready for Dodd-Frank implementation.
Because we are not building permanent systems but rather making enhancements to our existing systems we have to expense those costs.
So our expenses are running a little bit higher on the IT front than they might usually for this couple of quarters.
So if you want to think about that you might have certainly a 120 basis points or so that would normally go back to the margins that would not be doing so for the first quarter of this year.
Looking forward I think in the longer term we do expect our margin to be back over 40 but I think we've got to get through this period of expense ramp relating to these regulatory changes we've talked about.
And Peter its Ray just to add to that while we are working our way and are fairly well through the Dodd-Frank process at this point and expect that that’s going to be finalized by the SEC this year we do have the uncertainty around Europe and that’s going to be something we’re going to have to address as the CRA3 deliberation become more clear we hope over the next few months.
And Ray you think there are some specific cost implications potentially associated with that? It depends on what the final proposals are but yes I think we have to assume that there are some cost implications associated with that legislation or legislative proposals.
And on the regulatory stuff Ray I think and I am not sure if I heard this correctly but I thought maybe in your prepared comments you are implying that you are feeling the Franken Amendment is in fact going to happen am I putting that correctly? No I think we’re just following the expected timetable for the SEC to produce its study and we don’t know their findings will be from that study.
And last thing Ray any comments on the pipeline in terms of what you are seeing currently in terms of near-term trends and issuance? And then associated with that your revenue performance last several quarters has been very strong obviously and it looks like you maybe picking up some market share relative to other competitors.
Can you comment on that please? Yeah I would be happy to make some high level comments on pipeline and I think Linda has some information as well.
The pipeline and obviously the first quarter was a strong quarter particularly in the corporate and public project in infrastructure finance areas.
We do believe that that has incorporated some pull-forwards so issuance that we were expecting later in the year has been pulled into the early part of the year.
So for Moody’s Investor Service I think at this point we now expect to see a stronger first half than second half of the year.
For Moody’s Analytics we would still expect to see a stronger second half than first half of the year.
That being said most of the activity we’ve seen has been refinance and so we have not seen an active market particularly in the corporate area around mergers and acquisitions base financing share repurchase business investment spending.
And depending on how confidence evolves throughout this year we may have a stronger second half than would be implied from a more purely refinance based environment.
Before turning this over to Linda on what the pipeline it looks like the only other comment I would make here is that as we’ve seen over the last 18 months we expect to see periods of optimism and pessimism really related to the macroeconomic condition and the European sovereign debt crisis.
So the pipelines are going to be subject to whether those periods of optimism pessimism are causing investors to move away from risk and so just expect some volatility in issuance both positively and negatively.
Peter its Linda let me give you some specifics and I want to speak first to the US high grade market and then I am going to speak to the high yield market.
As you know we’ve just come off a gang-busters first quarter in which average monthly US high grade volume issuance was about $95 billion.
Then we came into April and the April high grade volume is expected to be about $30 billion for the month.
If we look at recent trends we would have expected $42 billion that would be the 10 year average for April.
So April is running light.
Last week we saw about $5 billion of issuance.
This week we have seen $5 billion to $10 billion of issuance.
So April’s saw quite a bit of softening coming off a very strong first quarter.
May is calling for $70 billion to $ 80 billion of high grade issuance and we’re starting to see pipelines we build but again we are concerned about the situation in Europe and any sort of week that auctions coming out of Europe can grow a range into the process pretty quickly.
2012 quoting from some of the banks here we’re still looking at $850 billion of issuance that’s up 15% from last year but as Ray said we have seen some pull-forward so it’s going to be interesting to see what happens for the rest of the year.
And turning to high yield a bit of a different story and this is actually quite interesting because the high yield pipeline is still reasonably strong.
For second quarter of 2011 the entire leverage market about $27 billion of pipeline high yield financing is about $6 billion of that leverage loans about $21 billion.
That’s the next highest after second quarter of last year where we saw $64 billion of pipeline.
So high yield looks pretty good and if it all keeps coming that will be pretty helpful to us.
But again as Ray mentioned we are very very conscious about the risk on risk off sort of phenomenon that we’ve been seeing.
And with respect to your market share question Peter I think it's as much a mix issue as anything else.
Some areas in the market where Moody’s is particularly strong have been active such as the commercial real estate area in the US but there are some other areas where our coverage has been weaker such as in European structured finance where some of the rating actions that relate to sovereigns and how that impacts the structured portions of the structured market have not been helpful to share.
We will take our next question from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Linda can you give us what the incentive compensation was in the quarter? Yeah.
Hang on just one second while we get that for you Craig.
Incentive compensation was $27.5 million that was 11% of total compensation and total comp expenses for the first quarter are running about $250 million Craig.
Then also within the MIS could you breakdown on percentage basis transaction versus non-transactions that typically ask you cross structured finance corporate finance and PPIF? Okay so for first quarter for corporate finance we are looking at 73% transaction and 27% relationship so quite heavy on the transaction side for the first quarter given the way the markets have been running.
Structured finance is 56% transaction and 44% relationships financial institutions 38% transaction and 62% relationships and public projects and infrastructure 62% transactions and 38% relationship.
So total MIS is 62 and 38.
Moody’s Analytics of course runs sort in reserve of that 20% transaction and 80% relationships.
So for the company as a whole first quarter 2012 49% transaction and 51% relationships.
Another question if you could breakdown on percentage basis like within structured finance ABS or MBS et cetera due to say for corporate finance (inaudible) and PPIF? Sure just a second okay.
In terms of corporate finance revenue investment grade and again as we have said earlier in the call we’re looking at a total line of $200 million for corporate for the first quarter 2012.
Investment grade was 22% of that or $44 million high yield was 26% of that or $51 million bank loans 17% at $34.7 million and other to 35% or $70 million.
Again the dramatic swing for us was the change in high-yield revenues for example the fourth quarter of 2011 which was only $15 million.
So $36.5 million increase in high yield is obviously very helpful to us.
Let me go on to structured and see if we can get those for you.
So the total structured line was $94.3 million asset backs 29% of that revenue or $27 million RMBS was 25% at $23.3 million.
Again that does include cover bonds commercial real estate 26% or $24 million and derivative 21% $19.6 million and we are seeing some good interest and good pipelines around CLOs which would be another of the bright spots in structured finance? Can you do it for financial and PPIF if you would? Sure for saving total line was $78.8 million banking was $55.9 million of that or 71%.
Insurance was $18.1 million or 23% and managed investments almost $5 million or 6% and for public project and infrastructure public finance and sovereigns $39 million which was 50% munis just about $5 million which was 6% and project infrastructure $35 million which was 44% of the PPIF revenue line.
As we had noted earlier again nice pick up in the project and infrastructure line.
And then lastly if I could I wonder if you could just update us on (inaudible) various losses out there please? Thanks.
Yeah sure.
In terms of just an overview in ratings related litigation we still have 20 open cases in the US and a little over 30 cases have been closed dismissed or withdrawn.
Outside the US we have about a dozen open cases and about a half dozen cases that have been closed.
As far as probably the most notable litigations the CalPERS case we filed an appeal to the court’s decision on the anti-SLAPP statute in March.
When that appeal will be argued or decided and in Abu Dhabi we have filed well first of all the discovery has been completed in Abu Dhabi and we filed a motion for some re-judgment in January but again we don’t know when that will be argued or decided? We will hear next from Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Just a quick question on public finance in the quarter.
Ray do you think that's more of a one-off in the sense that last year the market was sort of paralyzed over bankruptcy concerns and so this is just sort of a snap back and then going forward things will settle down or do you think with state finances improving you could have a pretty good run here for the rest of the year particularly in the US? We think public finance is showing and it is probably going to be a fairly study for the rest of the year.
We did have a good first quarter but we are not anticipating a big drop-off for full year.
And project infrastructure is the general source of the strength? Now well project and infrastructure has been strong but we have also seen an increase in issuance at the regional government level below the state level.
(Operator Instructions) We will hear next from Jennifer Huang with UBS.
I was wondering if you could follow up to Peter’s question on expenses may be just for the rest of the year in terms of the guidance how much of that do you think is driven by meeting investments into the Moody's and over there particularly enterprise service solutions business versus the credit rating business.
Sure Jen I will take a shot at that.
As we said before we expect our expenses to ramp up by about $40 million over the course of the year.
And we will continue to expect that to happen and the ramp maybe a little bit deeper in the second and third quarters than some of the analysts have noted so just something to look at in terms of the quarter-by-quarter spread on that.
And so there are a number of things we are doing in terms of our investments and more than half of the growth in those expenses are due to headcount growth and those are in the revenue area as we noted for the rating agency its corporate finance public projects and infrastructure and for Moody’s Analytics in enterprise with solutions and sales.
So the expense growth that we are projecting about half of it is headcount growth to drive the revenue lines in those growing businesses.
About $7 million is acquisition related costs some of that is the amortization of the intangibles.
We mentioned this on the last quarter call.
We said this would be something that we would be working that would take our expenses.
And then lastly as I mentioned to Peter we are seeing a bit of a bump up in the expense side of our IT budget running a little bit more heavily towards expense ramp and capitalization as we get things ready for Dodd-Frank so that would explain the majority of the cost ramp coming in 2012.
Does that help you? Yeah and maybe just a quick follow-up on the headcount growth and maybe if you could provide some color; to what extent you can or in terms of the employees maybe switch from allow them to switch from one area of credit rating to another.
So for example from pay structure finance to public to the PIP area or is that possible at all? Ray will answer that part and then I’ll talk more generally about headcount additions.
Go ahead.
Yeah there is some ability to move our professional staff between areas in MIS but I would note that all lines of business are growing and so that does provide a constraint in terms of at least the financial ability to make the moves as opposed to for just developmental purposes.
And the other thing I would just note is that a good portion of the headcount increase obviously is related to the acquisitions that we did make.
So we have increase in headcount for the existing businesses that are themselves growing but then as well from the acquisitions.
Yeah let me just give you some quick details.
This first quarter ‘12 first quarter ‘11 we’ve added about 430 people in the existing businesses; about 200 of those Moody’s Analytics again to put sales effort the Enterprise Risk Solutions business and some of the other things you’ll note that the top-line growth in Moody’s Analytics has been quite stellar and we do need people to support that.
In the rating agency we’ve added a 156 people; we’re supporting the higher volumes particularly as I said in corporate and PPIF we’ve not added heads in structured finance.
We have added few people as we get ready for Dodd-Frank and some of the regulatory functions.
For Shared Services we have about 70 headcount and some of those folks are compliance business support initiatives and we recruiting.
So we’re cautious to add people on the revenue driving side and we think that we’re seeing on the top-line reflects that we’ve invested pretty well in order to have that happen.
(Operator Instructions) We will take a question from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
So Linda I was just wondering specifically if there is any reason you chose not to buyback stock in the first quarter? Sure Peter.
As I think we said we had $815 million of total cash at the end of the quarter; 80% it is offshore and a lot of that is permanently reinvested offshore.
We do that because it’s brought down our tax rate nicely from above 40% a bunch of years ago to we are guiding to 33% for this year.
We have made real progress on the tax line which helps the shareholders quite a bit.
Perhaps the other side of that is we have about a $180 million in cash in the US here and the first quarter as you heard from (inaudible) earlier in week are seasonally heavy cash out flow quarter.
We have bonuses to pay we have taxes to pay and we have dividends to pay.
So it’s something more than the available cash and we are looking to get back into the market as Ray said to do 200 million of repurchases for the rest of the year.
We will take a follow-up question from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Yes.
I am back for the MIS for the second term you guys are up internationally 6% during the quarter can you break a point how Asia did there versus how Europe did please? Yeah we can talk generally about Europe versus other international.
I won’t be able to give you a detail break-out within Asia but Europe for the first quarter overall was down about 4% and other international was up about 30% so the overall was up about 6% for MIS outside the US.
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
I just like to thank everyone for joining us and we will talk to you after the second quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes Moody’s First Quarter Earnings Call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 03:30 PM Eastern Time on Moody’s Investor Relations website.
Thank you.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody’s Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for question-and-answers following the presentation.
I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody’s second quarter results for 2012.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Moody’s released its results for the second quarter of 2012 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Corporation will lead this morning’s conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody’s Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found towards the end of our earnings release.
Today’s remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the management’s discussion and analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I’ll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today's call.
I will begin by summarizing Moody’s second quarter 2012 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights and I will then speak to recent regulatory developments and finish our comments with our outlook for 2012.
After our prepared remarks we will be happy to respond to your questions.
Second quarter revenue was $641 million increased 6% over the prior year period reflecting solid growth in public finance and structured finance as well as continued strong results for Moody’s Analytics.
Expenses for the second quarter were $362 million an 8% increase from the second quarter of 2011.
Operating income for the second quarter was $279 million a 3% increase from the prior year period.
Diluted earnings per share was $0.76 for the second quarter decreased $0.06 from the prior year period which had included a $0.06 favorable tax impact related to a foreign tax ruling and a $0.03 legacy tax benefit.
While market conditions remain volatile we are reaffirming our 2012 EPS guidance range of $2.62 to $2.72 and still expect to be towards the upper end of the range.
Turning to the year-to-date performance revenue for the first six months of 2012 was $1.3 billion a 9% increase from the first half of 2011.
Expenses were $740 million up 12% and operating income of $548 million increased 5% from the prior year period.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.52 for the first half of 2012 increased $0.03 from the prior year period which again had included a $0.06 favorable tax impact related to a foreign tax ruling a $0.03 legacy tax benefit.
Revenue of Moody’s Investors Service for the first six months of 2012 was $894 million an increase of 5% from a year ago.
Moody’s Analytics revenue of $394 million was 19% higher than the prior year period.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on or financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I will begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody’s total revenue for the quarter increased 6% to $641 million.
U.S.
second quarter revenue increased 9% to $344 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 2% to $297 million and represented 46% of Moody’s total revenue down slightly from 48% in the year ago period.
Recurring revenue of $338 million represented 53% of the total up from 51% in the prior year period.
And looking now at each of our businesses.
Moody’s Investors Service revenue for the quarter was $441 million about flat to prior year periods.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted MIS revenue by 3%.
U.S.
revenue for MIS increased 5% over the prior year period while revenue outside the U.S.
decreased 5% and represented 42% of total ratings revenue.
Global Corporate Finance revenue in the second quarter declined 4% from the year ago period to $192 million.
Revenue was down 4% year-over-year both inside and outside the U.S.
The decline in Global Corporate Finance revenue reflected weaker speculative grade bond and bank loan issuance against a near record prior year period.
Investment grade issuance for non-financial corporate was higher year-over-year reflecting continued historically low borrowing rates.
Global Structured Finance revenue for the second quarter was $91 million 5% above prior year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 22% year-over-year primarily due to strength in ratings of collateralized loan obligations and asset backed securities.
International Structured Finance revenue was down 9% reflecting issuance declines in European covered bonds and after-tax securities.
Global financial institutions revenue of $78 million decreased 2% from the same quarter of 2011.
U.S.
revenue was essentially flat as compared to the second quarter of 2011 while non-U.S.
revenue was down 3%.
Global revenue for the public project and infrastructure business rose 12% year-over-year to $81 million.
Revenue was up 19% in U.S.
primarily due to gains in ratings for regional government and higher education.
While non-U.S.
revenue declined 3%.
Turning now to Moody’s Analytics.
Global revenue for Moody’s Analytics of $200 million was up 19% from the second quarter of 2011.
Slightly more than half of growth was from the late 2011 acquisitions of Copal Partners and Barrie &amp; Hibbert.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation revenue grew 21%.
U.S.
revenue grew by 23% year-over-year to $86 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue grew to 17% to $114 million and represented 57% of the total Moody’s Analytics revenue.
Globally revenue from research data and analytics of $121 million increased 9% from the prior year period and represented 61% of the total MA revenue.
We continue to see demand for credit research via our CreditView offering and solid growth in data licensing arrangements.
Revenue from enterprise and risk solutions of $52 million grew 24% from last year reflecting the December 2011 acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert and growth in the base business.
Due to the variable nature of project timing enterprise risk solutions revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Professional services revenue grew 84% to $27 million reflecting the acquisition of a majority stake in Copal Partners in November 2011.
Turning now to expenses.
Moody’s second quarter expenses were $362 million an increase of 8% compared to second quarter 2011 or a 10% increase excluding the impact of foreign currency translation.
Compensation expense accounted for over half of the year-on-year expense increase and was due to increased headcount from the acquisitions in late 2011 and from growth in our existing business.
Incremental non-compensation expense was driven by higher information technology expense supporting business growth and regulatory initiative as well as purchase price amortization associated with acquisition.
Moody’s reported operating margin for the quarter was 43.5% down from 44.6% in the second quarter of 2011.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 33.6% compared with 27.8% for the prior year period.
The increase in effective tax rate is primarily due to lower tax rate in 2011 resulting from a favorable foreign tax ruling.
Now I will provide an update on capital allocation.
During second quarter of 2012 Moody’s repurchased 2.7 million shares at a total cost of $100 million and issued 0.3 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plan.
Shares outstanding as of June 30 2012 totaled 222.3 million representing a 3% decline from the year earlier.
As of quarter end Moody’s had $800 million of share purchase authority remaining under its current program.
We still expect full year 2012 share repurchases of approximately $200 million subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decision.
As of June 30 2012 Moody’s had $1.2 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Cash and cash equivalents were $824 million as of June 30 2012.
A decrease of $114 million from a year earlier.
Approximately 85% of our cash holdings are maintained outside the U.S.
We remain committed to using our strong cash flow to create value for shareholders while maintaining sufficient liquidity.
And with that I will turn the call back to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I will continue with an update on regulatory developments.
First in the U.S.
We continue to expect the SEC will adopt final rules relevant to nationally recognized credit rating agencies by year-end 2012 and publish its feasibility study on establishing an alternative system for allocating rating assignments for structured finance products by about the same time.
Both banking and securities regulatory authorities continue to assess their use of ratings and regulations and are in the process of developing potential alternative measures as replacements.
Turning to Europe.
Moody’s was registered in European Union in late October 2011 and our European operations are under the full examination and oversight authority of the European Securities and Markets Authority or ESMA.
As discussed on previous calls in November 2011 the European Commission released new regulatory reform proposals for the rating agency industry commonly referred to as CRA3 that seek to address among other ideas the use of ratings in regulation business models competition rotation of rating agencies and liability.
If implemented as originally proposed by the commission many believe CRA3 would likely have significant negative implications for Europe’s credit markets.
Consequently the debate among public policy makers and the private sector has focused on CRA3s potential damaging impact on the broader European economy and European issuers access to debt markets.
The European legislative process requires that the European Parliament and council of finance ministers of the individual EU member states each produce its own version of the tax and then enter into discussions with the commission.
During these discussions the three institutions seek to resolve any differences among their respective drafts.
And once a compromised document produce put to a vote.
In May of June of 2012 the council and the Parliament respectively finalized their positions on CRA3.
We expect the necessary compromise discussions to continue through the autumn months and for CRA3 to be finalized before year-end 2012.
It is still too early to assess what the likely outcome of these deliberations would be.
As always we will continue to advocate globally consistent approaches that align with the G20 statements and directives.
I will conclude this morning’s prepared comments by discussing our full year guidance.
Moody’s outlook for 2012 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability and business investment spending.
Merger and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There is a important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions especially as they relate to Europe.
And if actual conditions differ from these assumptions Moody’s results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates.
As I mentioned earlier we are reaffirming our 2012 EPS guidance range of $2.62 to $2.72 and still expect to be towards the upper end of the range.
Now that we have reaffirmed our EPS guidance certain components of 2012 guidance have been modified to reflect our current view of credit market conditions.
For Moody’s overall the company still expects full year 2012 revenue to grow in the low double-digit percent range.
Full year 2012 expenses are also still projected to increase in the low double-digit percent range.
Full year 2012 operating margin is still projected to be approximately 39% including the full year impact of our fourth quarter 2012 acquisitions.
Our effective tax rate is still projected to be approximately 33%.
As Linda mentioned earlier we still expect full year 2012 share repurchase of approximately $200 million subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
Capital expenditures are still projected to be approximately $60 million to $70 million.
We still expect approximately $100 million in depreciation and amortization expense.
Incremental compliance and regulatory expense is still projected to be in the $10 million to $15 million range.
For the global MIS business revenue for full year 2012 is still expected to increase in the mid to high single digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MIS revenue is still expected to increase in the low double-digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is still expected to increase in the low single digit percent range.
Corporate finance revenue is now projected to grow in the high single to low double-digit percent range.
Revenue from each of structured finance and financial institutions is still projected to be flat to slightly up while public project and infrastructure finance revenue is still expected to increase in the mid-teens percent range.
For MA full year 2012 revenue is still expected to increase in the high teens percent range.
Within the U.S.
MA revenue is now expected to increase in the high teens to 20% range while non-U.S.
revenue is still expected to increase in the high teens percent range.
Revenue growth is still projected in the mid-single digit percent range for research data and analytics and in the low 20s percent range for enterprise risk solutions reflecting the December 2011 acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert as well as growth in the base business.
Professional services revenue is now projected to grow by approximately 75% inclusive of revenue from the late 2011 acquisition of the majority stake in Copal Partners and growth in MA’s existing financial training and certification business.
This concludes our prepared remarks and joining us for the question and answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investors Service; Mark Almeida President of Moody’s Analytics.
We would be pleased to take any questions you might have.
(Operator Instructions) We will go first to Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks good morning.
So Ray just a couple of follow up questions starting out on the regulatory environment.
So what's your thought in terms of the move to replace ratings in regulations in term of the implications of that.
Are you seeing any changes in the portion of debt securities that are issued that are rated versus not rated? That was part one.
And then part two with regard to CRA3 the liability issue seems like it might be the bugaboo.
What's your read on how that’s going to play out.
Thanks.
On the ratings in regulation or reliance on ratings there have been effort both in the U.S.
under Dodd-Frank and as part of the some of the European proposals on discussions to reduce or eliminate the use of ratings in regulation.
I think from prior calls you know that we are very sportive of that.
But frankly the progress on that has not been particularly strong in my view.
And there have been probably as many changes in use of ratings in regulation that would seek to increase the use of ratings as there are to decrease the use.
So net-net I don’t think there has been a lot of change.
If nothing else what we would argue for is at least to reduce the mechanistic use of ratings in regulation.
So it reduces some of the [core] risk or pro-cyclicality that’s associated with this.
And we do have some views on how that can be done.
So as I said we are supportive of the overall effort even if it has not made a lot of progress and we don’t see it having a negative impact on our business.
And then with respect to liability yes we are playing close attention to the discussions in Europe around liability and obviously we will accommodate our business to make sure that we have the maximum protections we can have depending on what kind of liability regime the Europeans determine for our business.
And there are -- again there are ways for us to mitigate those risks but we have to wait and see what the final conclusions are at these three party discussions that go on the fall.
So you are assuming Ray that there will be higher levels of liability in that final version of this thing? I think there is a good chance that there will be.
The question really is the degree and what we will do operationally to manage that risk back down.
And then specifically though are you seeing a change in the percentage of publicly issued debt securities the rated versus unrated.
No.
I mean except to the extent that there are issues coming in domestic markets that might have previously not been issuers.
That’s where we have to make sure we continue to provide coverage.
But for both the existing issuer base and for most of the new issues that are coming to market we are providing we continue to provide very comprehensive coverage.
And then Linda one other thing in terms of -- could you just talk a little bit about the pipeline in terms of what you guys are seeing currently in terms of issuance.
And then on the cost dynamics the cost growth slowed considerably on a year-to-year basis in the second quarter versus the first.
What was the differential? Sure Peter.
Let me take the pipeline question first.
And the information that I am quoting here is coming from Morgan Stanley.
Let me talk first about....
Oh how insulting that you are quoting them.
Sorry about that.
Investment grade issuance first Peter and then high yield.
Year-to-date investment grade volume here in the U.S.
is $512 billion which is up 6% from 2011.
First half volume $469 billion it’s the largest first half on record 5% more than the first half of 2008 which is recent high and more than the first half of 2011.
The month-to-date volume has been $51 billion and close to the July 2010 record amount of $59 billion we may have surpassed that.
The last week has been okay and the pipeline looked reasonably good.
Right now we have historically low interest rates.
I just saw before coming up here the 10-year’s at 1.42 so we are sort of back to Eisenhower level long-term rates.
So that is helpful to the pipeline.
And high-yield year-to-date volume is $187 billion that’s down 13% versus 2011.
The first half volume is $152 billion which is down 25% from the first half of last year.
Leverage loans year-to-date volume $136 billion which is down 30% from 2011 year-to-date.
And first half volume was $123 billion which is down 31% from the first half.
Now high yield market is grinding tighter.
We saw a little bit more activity recently.
Bu the pipeline seems to be pretty well constrained right now looking at the $10 billion of visible high yield issuance in the pipeline and $13 billion in leverage loans in the pipeline.
And again that’s one where you are going to see a little bit of movement depending on who you source for information.
But generally again high yield pipeline limited investment grade pipeline pretty strong.
Now on cost costs Peter you are correct we did move down from the first quarter to the second quarter.
A couple of things going on there.
The first quarter had some unusually high expenses in it.
Our big comp quarter is the first quarter and the second quarter has some reductions in that.
First quarter obviously was stronger so we had a higher incentive compensation amount and the second quarter was little bit more reasonable.
And so that basically is the main driver of what's happened with the quarter-over-quarter expenses.
We will go next to Jennifer Huang with UBS.
So as things like debt issuance in Europe look pretty weak in the second quarter year-over-year.
And I think your European MIS revenues were down about 5% which seems rather stable.
So can anybody just talk about what are some of the drivers behind this trend that you guys saw in the revenues in Europe in MIS? Yes Europe was softer in the second quarter.
And there were a number of lines that saw year-on-year quarterly decreases.
But this was mitigated by the fact that we do have a large number of frequent issuer pricing agreements in Europe.
And those provide a steadier base of revenue.
What we are missing though is the growth opportunity in Europe that comes from issuance and that’s why we would look for whether market tone and sentiment improves in the second half or remains as volatile and choppy as it has been in the first half.
Because that would bring more of the speculative grade credit to market and those are the credit that are less likely to be under frequent issuer pricing agreements and would increase our transaction based revenue.
Also to the extent that there is a strengthening in market tone in Europe I would expect that that’s going to be a good news for structured finance issuance so we would have to keep a close eye on that.
And that is transaction-based revenue for the most part.
Okay.
And then in terms of the structured finance products can you just about the profitability of those deals? Are they still -- I mean are they higher than from the corporate side? It’s similar or there are not market differences in profitability subject to cyclical upturns and downturns.
And so we have a downturn in structured finance and an upturn in another area that obviously will be more profitable.
But looking through those cycles I wouldn’t identify any significant differences.
Okay.
And then I just have one more on the expense side.
So I think from the first quarter you had mentioned you expect some ramp in expenses throughout the year to the tune of about $40 million.
Is that still your expectation looking at the full year now? And if so just wondering how much flexibility you have in that just because it seems like in the second quarter you weren’t able to manage the expenses down quite a bit.
Jen it’s Linda.
Let me talk about the back half of the year compared to the first half of the year.
And let me start by saying that we don’t give quarterly guidance so you are going to have to do the math on some of it.
On the revenue side we expect that or revenue pattern will lay out approximately like it did this last year.
With our revenue coming in with a balance towards the first half of the year with a little bit of weakening towards the second half of the year.
So the split on that we are thinking is about 52% first half 48% back half.
So we do at this point expect revenue in the second half of the year to be a little bit lower.
Now on the expense side you are right we had talked about $40 million ramp coming off our $377 million first quarter expense number.
We did do better in the second quarter.
We do expect $40 million expense ramp from $377 million as we get to the fourth quarter.
And obviously that was would result in a tick-up in expenses in the third quarter and that will move up in the fourth quarter.
Now the reason for that is we have more headcount coming on in the second half of the year.
We also have raises that come into play in the back half of the year and some other expenditures that we have to make in terms of IT particularly to get ready for Dodd-Frank compliance.
Many of those are expensed items so they are changes to existing systems which have to be expensed as opposed to building new systems which are of course capitalized.
So yes we expect the continued expense ramp.
We expect that revenue may weaken a bit and traditionally our pattern has been that the third quarter is the most challenged on the revenue side.
So that might make for a little bit of a tougher situation in the third quarter.
So that’s how we see it laying out at this point.
(Operator Instructions) We will go next to Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
First a couple of cost questions.
What was the incentive compensation expense in the quarter? Sure Craig.
I think it’s $27.5 million.
So that was basically flat with the first quarter correct? That’s right.
Now last year -- just interestingly Craig last year we had a different pattern.
Last year we had in first quarter $29.4 million and ramping up to $35 million in the second quarter because of course second quarter was very strong last year.
So as I said this year $27.5 million is flat first quarter to second quarter.
And then also back on the overall second quarter cost.
I remember in your remarks from three months ago about how you thought the cost pattern would go.
And also looking at history here based on what I can see here over the last 10 plus years you have never had a quarter where costs in the second quarter were down from the first quarter like we had here sequentially.
What changed in your mind versus your original budget you talked about three months so that costs were actually down versus the first quarter? Sure.
Of course we are looking to accrue incentive compensation based on how we view against our forecast.
And in the first quarter we put up heavier incentive compensation view because we had a greater amount of completion.
So in the second quarter that was a little bit lighter.
We also had some other issues involving FX which were a little bit better for us in the second quarter.
But generally we are being careful with expenses.
We are being careful with hiring.
We are being very thoughtful about how we are managing the business and with the market outlook being as choppy as it is we have to be very thoughtful about what we are doing and how we are doing it.
So I think those would be the main drivers.
And I would ask Ray if he had any further comments he would like to make about that.
No just to emphasize that I think part of the pattern that you are seeing this difference in Q1 to Q2 is really explained by Q1 as much as it’s explained by Q2.
Because we did have the higher incentive accruals in the first quarter based on the strength of the markets at that time.
Versus your budget you are saying because it’s the same number in both quarters of course? No exactly exactly.
Okay.
And then let me ask some questions -- with your four main segments within ratings can you breakout Linda the transaction percentage versus non-transaction across the four segments please.
Sure.
The corporate Craig we will do as usual transaction first and relationship second.
For CFG we are running 70:30 transaction relationship structured is 57:43 FIG is 35:65 and PPIF is 62:38.
Total for the rating agency is 60:40.
MA is reverse 20% transaction revenue and 80% relationship.
Total for MCO is 47% transaction and 53% relationship.
And then also breaking out the revenues differently can you do similar percentages like within corporate financial high-yield bank loans investment grade and then that monitoring CP medium-term notes.
Do that for all the four segments? Sure.
Starting with corporate finance Craig.
The total number of corporate finance dollar amounts for the second quarter is $191.5 million.
Investment grade made up 22% of that revenue in the second quarter.
High-yield made up 17% of the revenue.
Bank loans 18% and other accounts 43%.
Going on to FIG revenues total amount of 77.8 again FIG is pretty consistent quarter-over-quarter.
Banking 67% of the revenue insurance 27% and managed investments 7%.
Going on to PPIF the total number was $81.2 million and 54% of that came from public finance and sovereigns.
Again that was an increase than what we usually see.
Munis at 6% projects and infrastructure at 40% and again $81.2 million was the total.
And then I think we missed structured.
Total number of $90.7 million.
Asset backed securities 32% of that.
Residential mortgage backed securities 24% commercial real estate 20% and derivative 24%.
We will go next to Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Yeah Ray just on international trends.
If Europe stays choppy for the balance of the year can you talk about trends outside of Europe? In emerging markets Asia Latin America and how if those strengthen or continue to be strong or how you are going to get back to increasing your MIS international revenues? Sure.
We are expecting the international business outside of the EMEA to be relatively stronger than Europe or EMEA.
And the concern will be the extent of any contagion from Europe and what that might do to business confidence and business expansion in other international markets.
And frankly that’s a tough call to make.
So we think that other international is going to perform reasonably well for the second half.
It is smaller than our European business but it’s subject to at least some of the choppiness and volatility risk that we see in Europe.
And I will ask Michel Madelain if he has any additional comments he would like to make on that.
Thank you Ray.
No think you know the scale of the business as you see is quite different in Asia and Latin America compared to Europe.
But we see that as much more stable and robust than we see the choppiness we see in Europe today.
Can you put a ballpark range around the scale relative to Europe? Yeah.
Europe overall of Moody’s Corporation business Europe represents about 30% and Asia represents about half of that.
Asia and Latin America.
That concludes today's question and answer session.
At this time I will turn the conference over to Ray McDaniel for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Before we end the call I just want to announce that Moody’s will host its Investor Day on Wednesday September 12 in New York City.
Attendance is by invitation only and the event will be webcast and further details will be provided on our investor relations website ir.moodys.com.
Thanks to all for joining the call today and we look forward to seeing many of you in September.
This concludes Moody’s third quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 4 p.m.
Eastern Time on Moody’s website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's third quarter results for 2012.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Moody's released its results for the third quarter of 2012 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody's Corporation will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody's Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found towards the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the management's discussion and analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's third quarter 2012 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
I will then finish with several comments on the current regulatory environment and our outlook for the remainder of 2012.
After our prepared remarks we'll be happy to respond to your questions.
Third quarter revenue of $689 million increased 30% over the prior-year period and was the highest quarterly revenue Moody's has achieved in its history.
We benefited from double-digit revenue growth in all lines of business at MIS with particularly strong performance in corporate finance as well as continued strong growth in all areas of Moody's Analytics.
Expenses for the third quarter were $419 million a 25% increase from the third quarter of 2011.
Operating income for the third quarter was $270 million a 38% increase from the prior-year period.
Adjusted operating income for the third quarter was $294 million up 36% from the same period last year.
Diluted earnings per share of $0.81 for the third quarter which included a $0.06 legacy tax benefit increased 42% from the prior-year period.
Excluding the legacy tax benefit in the current quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.75 for the third quarter of 2012 were up 32% from the prior-year period.
Based on strong third quarter performance we are raising our 2012 EPS guidance range to $2.95 to $3.05 or $2.89 to $2.99 excluding legacy tax benefit in the third quarter.
Turning to year-to-date performance.
Revenue for the first nine months of 2012 was $2 billion a 15% increase from the first nine months of 2011.
Revenue of Moody's Investor Service was $1.4 billion for the first nine months of 2012 an increase of 14% from a year ago.
Moody's Analytics revenue of $609 million was 19% higher than the prior-year period.
Expenses for the first nine months of 2012 were $1.2 billion up 16% from the prior-year period.
Operating income of $817 million increased 14% from $716 million for the same period of 2011.
Diluted earnings per share of $2.34 for the first nine months of 2012 which included the $0.06 legacy tax benefit increased 14% from the prior-year period.
I'll now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the quarter increased 30% to $689 million.
U.S.
third quarter revenue increased 37% to $375 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 22% to $313 million and represented 45% of Moody's total revenue down slightly from 48% in the year-ago period.
Recurring revenue of $346 million represented 50% of the total down from 59% in the prior-year period.
Looking now at each of our businesses Moody's Investors Service revenue for the quarter was $474 million up 35% from the prior-year period.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted MIS revenue by 4%.
U.S.
revenue for MIS increased 45% over the prior-year period.
Revenue outside the U.S.
increased 21% and represented 39% of total ratings revenue.
Global corporate finance revenue in the third quarter increased 71% from the year-ago period to $221 million.
Revenue was up 81% year-over-year in the U.S.
primarily driven by issuance in the speculative grade market including high-yield bonds and bank loans.
Investment grade issuance was also strong in the U.S.
The corporation is taking advantage of historically low rates.
Outside the U.S.
corporate finance revenue grew 53% primarily reflecting increased investment grade issuance across all regions.
Global structured finance revenue for the third quarter was $93 million 14% above the prior-year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 27% year-over-year primarily due to strong issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities and collateralized loan obligation.
International structured finance revenue was essentially flat to the prior-year period.
Global financial institutions revenue of $83 million increased 15% from the same quarter of 2011.
U.S.
revenue was up 22% as compared to the third quarter of 2011 primarily driven by increased insurance company issuance corporate financing and debt-funded M&amp;A activity.
Non-U.S.
revenue was up 10% primarily due to increased issuance in Latin America and Asia prompted by refinancing of short-term debt credit expansion due to economic growth and reduced lending by European banks in this regions.
Global revenue for the public project and infrastructure business rose 13% year-over-year to $77 million.
Revenue was up 11% in the U.S.
primarily due to gains in public and infrastructure finance while non-U.S.
revenue increased 16% reflecting growth in European infrastructure finance.
And turning now to Moody's Analytics.
Global revenue for Moody's Analytics of $215 million was up 20% from the third quarter of 2011.
Slightly more than half of the growth was from the late 2011 acquisitions of Copal Partners and Barrie &amp; Hibbert.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation revenue grew 21%.
U.S.
revenue grew by 14% year-over-year to $86 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased by 23% to $129 million and represented 60% of total Moody's Analytics revenue.
Globally revenue from research data and analytics of $124 million increased 7% from the prior-year period and represented 58% of total MA revenue.
We continue to see demand for credit research via our CreditView offering as well as new sales of our other analytic data and analytics product.
Revenues from enterprise risk solutions of $64 million grew 26% from last year reflecting the December 2011 acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert and strong growth in products and services that support the regulatory compliance needs of our financial services customers.
Due to the variable nature of project timing enterprise risk solutions revenue remain subject to quarterly volatility.
Professional services revenue grew 97% to $27 million reflecting the acquisition of a majority stake in Copal Partners in November 2011.
Turning now to expenses.
Moody's third quarter expenses were $419 million an increase of 25% compared to third quarter of 2011 or a 27% increase excluding the impact of foreign currency translation.
Higher accruals for incentive compensation and Moody's profit sharing plan reflecting a stronger full year outlook accounting for about half of the year-on-year expense growth.
More specifically we recorded additional incentive compensation in the third quarter to align with stronger than expected year-to-date financial performance and the increased full year outlook as reflected in our updated guidance.
Therefore incentive compensation for the third quarter was $59 million versus $28 million in each of the first and second quarters.
Additionally in the third quarter we recorded approximately $8 million of profit sharing expense given the increase in our EPS guidance.
As you may remember our 2012 compensation plan were profit sharing when our pro forma EPS grows more than 10% from the prior-year period.
Our current pro forma EPS guidance results in a growth of over 10% from 2011's pro forma EPS whereas our guidance at the end of the second quarter did not.
Excluding growth in incentive compensation and profit sharing expenses for the third quarter were 15% higher from the prior-year period primarily due to increased headcount from growth in our existing businesses and from acquisitions in late 2011.
Moody's reported operating margin expanded 230 basis points year-over-year from 36.9% in the third quarter of 2011 to 39.2% for the current quarter.
Adjusted operating margin was 42.7% for the quarter up from 40.5% for the same period last year.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 29.5% compared with 28.5% for the prior-year period.
The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to lower taxes in 2011 resulting from the settlement of state tax audit partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign tax planning initiatives in 2012.
Now I'll provide an update on capital allocation.
During the third quarter of 2012 Moody's repurchased 600 000 shares at a total cost of $25 million and issued 1.2 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plan.
Shares outstanding as of September 30 2012 totaled 223 million essentially flat from the year earlier.
As of quarter-end Moody's had $700 million of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program.
We now expect full year 2012 share repurchases of approximately $225 million subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
As of September 30 Moody's had $1.7 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Cash and cash equivalents were $1.5 billion as of September 30 2012 an increase of $664 million from a year earlier largely due to our $500 million bond deal in August this year.
As of September 30 2012 approximately 52% of our cash holdings are maintained outside the U.S.
For the first nine months of 2012 free cash flow was $461 million a decrease of $152 million from a year ago due in part to payments of approximately $121 million related to the settlement of state and local tax matters as well as movement in other working capital accounts.
We remain committed to using our strong cash flow to create value for shareholders while maintaining sufficient liquidity.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I'll continue with comments on our regulatory environment which has not changed materially since the update we provided during our second quarter earnings call.
In the U.S.
the SEC's rulemaking pursuant to Dodd-Frank is pending.
The timing is uncertain regarding final rules relevant to NRSROs as well as the feasibility study on establishing an alternative system for allocation rating assignments for structured finance products.
Both banking and securities regulatory authorities continue to assess their use of ratings and regulation and are in the process of developing potential alternative measures as replacements.
Turning to Europe as discussed on previous calls in November 2011 the European Commission released new regulatory reform proposals for the rating agency industry commonly referred to as CRA3.
The European legislative process requires that the European Parliament and the Council of Finance Ministers of the individual EU member states each produce its own version of the text and then enter into discussions with the Commission.
During these discussions the three institutions seek to resolve any differences among their respective drafts and once the compromised document is produced put to a vote.
In May and June of 2012 the Council and the Parliament respectively finalized their positions on CRA3.
The discussions among the three institutions are underway.
However currently we can't predict the timeline for finalization of CRA3 with any degree of precision.
Additionally it's still too early to assess what the likely outcome of these deliberations will be.
As always we will continue to advocate for globally consistent approaches that aligns with the G20 statements and directives.
I'll conclude this morning's prepared remarks by discussing our full year guidance.
Moody's outlook for the remainder of 2012 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability and business investment spending merger and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There's an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions especially as they relate to Europe.
And if actual conditions differ from these assumptions Moody's results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates.
As I mentioned earlier we are raising our 2012 EPS guidance to a range of $2.95 to $3.05 from the previous range of $2.76 to $2.86.
Full year pro forma EPS which excludes the impact of a legacy tax benefit is now expected to be in the range of $2.89 to $2.99.
Certain components of our 2012 guidance have also been modified to reflect our current view of credit market conditions.
For Moody's overall the company now expects full year 2012 revenue to grow in the mid-teens percent range.
Full year 2012 expenses are also now projected to increase in the mid-teens percent range.
Full year 2012 operating margin is now projected to be approximately 40% and adjusted operating margin for the year is still expected to be approximately 43%.
Our effective tax rate is still projected to be approximately 32%.
As Linda mentioned earlier we now expect full year 2012 share repurchases of approximately $225 million subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
Capital expenditures are now projected to be approximately $40 million to $50 million and we still expect approximately $100 million in depreciation and amortization expense.
Incremental compliance and regulatory expense is now projected to be approximately $15 million.
For the global MIS business revenue for the full year 2012 is now expected to increase in the mid-teens percent range.
Within the U.S.
MIS revenue is now expected to increase in the low-20s percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is now expected to increase in the mid-single digit percent range.
Corporate finance revenue is now projected to grow in the mid-20s percent range.
Revenue from structured finance is expected to grow in the mid-single digit percent range.
Financial institutions revenue is now expected to grow in the mid-single digit percent range.
And public project and infrastructure finance revenue is now expected to increase in the mid-teens percent range.
For Moody's Analytics full year 2012 revenue is still expected to increase in the high-teens percent range.
Within the U.S.
MA revenue is expected to increase in the high-teens to 20% range.
Non-U.S.
revenue is now expected to increase in the high-teens percent range.
Research data and analytics is now projected to grow in the high-single digit percent range.
While revenue growth is still projected in the low-20s percent range for enterprise risk solutions reflecting the December 2011 acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert as well as growth in the base business.
Professional services revenue is now projected to grow by approximately 70% reflecting revenue from the late 2011 acquisition of a majority stake in Copal Partners.
In closing I'd like to point out a couple of additional positive developments at Moody's.
Moody's Investors Service was voted the best credit rating agency in 2012 poll of U.S.
fixed-income investors conducted by the well-known publisher Institutional Investor.
Also this past week Automatic Data Processing Incorporated a leading provider of business outsourcing solutions announced that it has chosen to collaborate with Moody's Analytics to enhance widely followed ADP National Employment Report.
I am extremely pleased with the accomplishments of both businesses and appreciate the market's recognition of our efforts.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain the President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody's Investors Service; and Mark Almeida President of Moody's Analytics.
We'd be pleased to take any questions you may have.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Ray based on the guidance obviously it implies you're seeing some pretty good momentum going into the fourth quarter.
Anything interesting or different you can share with us in terms of what you're seeing in the fourth quarter in terms of assets classes or other activity in the market? Not a whole lot of additional color I can give you Peter other than we continue to see good issuance pipelines especially in corporate finance it's obviously in terms of sequential growth from the third quarter.
It's going to be difficult to achieve that matter because the issuance was so robust in the third quarter and we have some external events such as the election in a couple of short months in the fourth quarter.
But nonetheless we still see healthy pipelines.
And barring something really unanticipated I think we believe the fourth quarter will be another good quarter.
Let me speak a little bit about what we're seeing in pipelines and then in high yield and leveraged pipeline.
First looking at high grade and all this information comes from Morgan Stanley as of this morning.
October right now stands at $78 billion of issuance for U.S.
high grades and that has been the strongest October on record.
The month could break $100 billion if some big deals that are said to be in the pipeline come next week.
But we did experience a warning regarding potential weather delays which is something new.
For November expectations are about $70 billion for U.S.
hybrid issuance last year it was $77 billion and the average is about $63 billion so a little bit above the average for November.
For high yield and leveraged last week we saw $12 billion in high-yield issuance and $9.3 billion in leverage loan that's still very active.
This week we've seen $7.5 billion both in high yield and in leverage loan.
October saw $41 billion in high yields and $32 billion in leverage loans.
Our Q3 issuance was a record post of financial crisis for the leveraged area $112 billion in high-yield issuance for the third quarter and $81 billion in leverage loans.
As Ray said the fourth quarter will not be as strong as the third quarter but will still be very active.
The list of pipeline so far that can be seen for November is $19 billion in high yield and $10 billion in leverage loans.
And again a bit of concern that the first week of November could be low due to the weather and then following with the elections and obviously the usual watch outs for anything changing in the European situation.
I thought it was particularly noteworthy that it looked like the structured finance market seems like it's got some signs of life.
Do you have a view on the sustainability or a broadening of that recovery going into '13? The structured finance market has been showing year-over-year sequential growth pretty steady.
And I think that's an indication of good if not spectacular recovery in that market.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities CLOs the asset-backed market covered bonds are the more promising sectors.
We still don't anticipate a big rebound in 2013 in the residential mortgage-backed securities area.
But I guess the further reason for optimism in that sector is we seem to be moving away from some of the more regulatory-driven causes of issuance into more real market issuance and I would take that as a sign of health.
And I guess all this gets to the big issue Ray which is you've enjoyed very robust performance here in the second half of '12 making the comps more challenging in '13.
So do you have any early thoughts in terms of how next year could play out? We will provide our outlook for 2013 at the beginning of the year as we do normally.
And so I'll refrain from commenting on our outlook at this point.
One last try then.
On the cost side of equation Linda the rate of cost growth obviously has been pretty robust this year in the context of all the reasons you guys have laid out.
How do we think about that going forward? I just wanted to touch on the actual expense growth for this year.
And if you look at the Q3 year-over-year you'll see that last year we had $335 million of expenses this year in the third quarter we had $418 million of expenses.
The vast majority of that change $59 million or 70% of that is compensation.
So very important to remember that three times this year we've increased guidance and the main driver of expense increase is in fact the over-performance and the resulting incentive compensation which results.
Another cause of expense growth is our acquisitions which added $18 million to the expenses in the third quarter.
Now some of that breaks out into compensation for new people about $10 million of it.
We had the increase in depreciation and amortization and some other non-comp expenses and then we have a few other things in there.
But again if you look at the expense increase which is 25% year-over-year it would be 15% without the incentive compensation.
So probably the best way to think about it is if we normalize back to more normal performance last year.
We try as hard as we can to have expense growth not exceed and in fact be less than revenue growth.
So we'll see where get to as Ray said for that in 2013.
But we're mindful of expense growth but this is a very fast growing business and we are continuing to support it.
And we'll take our next question from William Bird with Lazard.
Ray I'm curious if you think you're seeing much pull-forward effect from fiscal cliff dynamics.
And then second I was wondering if you could just discuss kind of what needs to happen to buyback more stock? I'll start with the pull forward.
I think it's clear that we have seen pull-forward throughout this year including in the third quarter.
So firms are looking at the potential for some market uncertainty around the fiscal cliff potentially as developments occur in Europe.
And they are taking advantage of low official rates and good spreads not historically tight spreads but good.
That being said much of the activity that we have seen this year most of the activity continues to be refinancing as oppose to issuance for mergers and acquisitions and business expansion share repurchase et cetera.
So similar to comments I've made in the last couple of quarters it has been a very powerful refinancing engine that we have been experiencing over the course of the year.
But most of the traditional drivers of debt issuance have really not been very strong this year and so.
And that's what we'll be looking for going into 2013 2014.
Linda do you want to take the share repurchase? On share repurchase for the third quarter as we said we set $25 million which is frankly less than we had hoped.
We couldn't place our systematic share repurchase program and following our Investor Day the stock price moved quite rapidly and in fact out of our repurchase zone.
Because we realized that our performance was pretty good we could not go back into the market opportunistically.
So given the revised guidance we're hoping to get back into share repurchase market here in the fourth quarter and be able to make some progress.
But all of that of course is depended on market conditions.
And we'll continue on to Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
I appreciate you guys breaking out the transaction versus relationship across the categories in your press release I do have one of those similar question.
If you could break apart within your four main categories like the corporate finance breakout for high yield revenues bank loans investment grade by percentages each of the categories? Sure Craig we can do that.
We were thinking of calling Page 14 in the earnings release the credit table.
But going on to the revenue for corporate finance third quarter of 2012; total dollar corporate finance issuance $220.7 million; investment grade comprised of $55 million of that or about 25%; high yield was $52 million or 24% of the corporate finance total; bank loans $36.5 million or 17%; and other accounts $77 million or 35%.
The big movement there year-over-year for the third quarter increased in the high-yield percentage which basically doubled as a component from last year to this year Craig.
So that's a strong driver as well as the increase in the bank loans line.
Like we do it for structured finance and financial institutions et cetera? Going on to structured for third quarter: total issuance $93.1 million up from $82 million of this quarter last year; so asset-backed securities $25.7 million 28% of the total; residential mortgage-backed securities which does include covered bonds $20.3 million 22% of the total; commercial real estate finance $23.6 million which is 25% of the total; and derivatives $23.4 million which is 25% of the total.
Now the bigger changes there would be as Ray had noted in the commercial real estate lines and also interestingly in the derivatives line we saw more CLO issuance thus far in 2012 than we did in the entire period of 2008 to 2011.
In fact last week there were five CLOs.
So that market is doing quite well.
Let me go on and go to financial institutions group total revenue for the quarter $82.7 million banking about $57 million of that or 69%; insurance $21 million 26% of it; and managed investments $4.6 million about 6% of the total; and each of those lines are pretty consistent to what we saw last year.
For PPIF $77 million for the quarter $38 million in public finance and sovereign 49% of the total; munis $4.4 million 6% of the total; and project and infrastructure $34.5 million about 45% of the total; so everything now looks relatively similar little bit of an increase in project and infrastructure.
Interestingly some of that out of in Europe we understand that the ECB bond buying has created a bit of a more favorable environment for that type of issuance in Europe.
Is that everything you need Craig.
On that front yes.
And If I could ask couple of questions please.
One on incentive compensation you mentioned $59 million up from a year ago or you have the total numbers $59 million versus $28 million each of the first two quarters.
First off how does that breakdown between operating costs and SG&amp;A within the quarter please so that we can get a sense? We don't disclose that Craig.
Generally commissions go in SG&amp;A and the incentive comps attracts to what each individual person is doing for the company but we don't have that split out.
Can you say if generally is it heavy the one way or the other? No we don't disclose that Craig.
Then how should we think about that number for the fourth quarter assuming you had say the mid-point of your new guidance here? Sure.
We did $28 million and $59 million for the third quarter.
We're thinking that for the fourth quarter.
If we hit the mid-point of our guidance probably want to look at about $40 million for incentive compensation which also includes a piece for profit sharing.
And then I also want to ask you generally just big picture here when you guys look at your cost aside from incentive compensation what else do you consider variable.
For example you do or save an incremental 10 extra debt issuance deals here.
What's your variable cost aside from incentive compensation going over little bit extra top T&amp;E expense but was there anything else really? I think the main majority of it would be what does go through the bonus line.
I think as Ray just said that each additional dollar of revenue once we've covered the fixed cost would probably still come down to about $0.60 on the margin line but it depends if there is anything unusual going on for that quarter Craig.
And pacing of hiring and whether we dial that back or dial that up it's also source of flexibility but to the extent that we think the market conditions are reacting to short term cycles we would want to continue to invest back in our personnel and our business.
And similarly for various kinds of projects whether they are IT-related or other projects we have the ability in some areas to accelerate or decelerate in response to conditions.
Craig something that might interest you since yearend last year excluding our acquisitions we've hired about 330 people that's 7% growth excluding acquisitions.
Interestingly about 200 of those are for Moody's Analytics 110 or so are for the rating agency and only 20 of those are for shared services.
So 90% plus of the people that we've added this year are all for the revenue driving part of the business not for the staff part of the business.
So that's kind of give you some idea as to the balance and what we're trying to achieve.
And my last question please.
Just you gave out your the backlogs out there.
I'm curious if you could talk a little bit further about the fiscal cliff issue the debt issuance that's going to get raised here in Washington D.C.
The election just in general what's your thought as we get later in this year and into early next year? You sense any hesitation out there in debt issuance front if things get pushed out or is that all being pull-forward? I do think there is some pull-forward.
I think firms are being somewhat opportunistic.
The environment is good for issuance right now.
And so if you're thinking about issuance in the near-term this is a good time to be doing it.
Historically we have not seen any correlation in bond issuance activity based on election outcomes.
So that at least in terms of what we've seen in the past would not be an important determinant of issuance activity going forward.
And again the fiscal cliff is going to inevitably create headlines just as what's going on in Europe creates headlines and that a very short-term windows week-to-week where the market participants are feeling more optimistic or more pessimistic.
So I expect we're going to see choppiness going into the New Year but nothing that's going to freeze up markets.
And we'll go to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
First question given the hiring statistics you just gave out is that a good sense of how over the long term sort of the break out investments being made into the businesses are going to be just in terms if trying to model where the expense growth is going to come next year and the years forward? Manav looking at my colleagues here who are running the lines of business that generate revenue I think they are probably pretty happy with those total splits.
We have had increases on the staff side for regulatory compliance IT and other such things.
And we hope we've come largely thorough that as we have said on previous calls.
We will continue to add headcounts to drive very strong growth in both of these businesses.
But it does take investment in people and resources to achieve double-digit revenue growth which is pretty unusual in terms of the companies that have been reporting this week.
We're feeling pretty good about these numbers but we will need to continue to invest.
And hopefully yes that will continue to go to the revenue generating part of the business.
In terms of the regulatory compliance expansion of the $15 million that you have got or incremental $15 million that you guided for this year I understand Europe we don't know yet but excluding that does that incremental $15 million imply that other than that there is not much more incremental expense required for what we already know about? I think we've come through some of that but not all of it.
As Ray stated in his prepared remarks we do not yet have fully final rules on Dodd-Frank from the SEC.
So it would be premature for us to say that we're through everything yet.
And as Ray also said we don't know what the timing or the final shape of the CRA3 will be which makes it pretty difficult to put numbers on things.
At this point it's been a bit easier for us to plan and spend around the anticipated SEC rules because we feel we have a better idea of what the final rules are likely to look like.
The CRA3 situation in Europe again is more uncertain in more of a speculative stage in terms of what the final product is going to look like and how we will have to react at over what timeframe.
And one last one I think you explained why I guess the share buyback guidance came down from what you said last month.
I was just curious if you could explain why the CapEx number is dropping so much? Sure.
We've basically just re-scheduled some of the things we're planning to do here going into the end of the year.
We wait for final Dodd-Frank Rules and frankly we've held some capacities to deal with that.
So it's nothing more than just trying to figure out what has to go first and what we can do going next year.
Our next question comes from Doug Arthur with Evercore.
So two questions Ray I'm wondering if you can just update us on CalPERS.
There has been a lot of motions and moves between district court and appellate court.
And so I'm just interested as to where that stands right now on a timing point of view? Then Linda there seems like there's a lot of different trends in your financial area right now.
Insurance was very strong in the third quarter.
Was that a one-off thing or do you see that continuing? And this de-leveraging issue with the banks.
Is that likely to keep the banking side of financial institutions slow for a while? So I'm just kind of interested in different trends there.
Sure I'll start with CalPERS.
There's not a lot new in recent months in the CalPERS litigation.
As we mentioned on a prior earnings call we filed an appeal in the California Court of Appeals seeking reversal of the lower court's decision which deny our motion to dismiss under this anti-SLAPP statute in California.
And the briefing on that appeal is not going to be completed until the end of the year.
And after that the court will set a date for all arguments.
So currently we don't know when the case will be argued or when it will be decided.
So it's moving along quite slowly.
With respect to de-leveraging and the banking sector I'll make just a quick comment and then Linda or Michel may wish to add to that.
The de-leveraging is continuing.
We are seeing reduction in bank loans particularly in Europe and the de-leveraging that's associated with that.
We believe that is going to continue for a relatively long time as the banking system retrenches.
The benefit of that as we've talked about is that that encourages corporations and municipal entities to go to the bond market and seek ratings.
And our financial institutions area is the area that is most dominated of the ratings businesses by recurring revenue.
Majority of our revenue in that area is recurring and so we are less sensitive to the de-leveraging in that area.
We also don't get the benefits of banks leveraging up when they do that but in this environment we get the benefit of not having revenue reductions in the same degree that there is de-leveraging or retrenching.
And to follow-up Doug insurance year-over-year in Q3 moved from $18.5 million last year to $21.3 million this year.
So it's a whole $2.8 million difference.
It's not enormous.
The guidance for FIG now is to increase in the mid-single digits for this year which is up from flat to slightly up which is what we had previously.
So we expect that the activity will continue.
It's not the biggest grower amongst our revenue lines.
And just as a follow-up on the de-leveraging in Europe.
The Yankee Bond situation where corporations in Europe are coming over to the U.S.
to issue I mean that has been strong and is that becoming a really sizable sector for you now or not yet? Yes it has been strong this year and much stronger than we've seen in previous years.
How enduring a phenomenon that would be I think is somewhat uncertain.
Right now more than interest and risk coming from the U.S.
investors than European investors and so the European issuers have taken advantage of that.
Whether that is going to change and the issuance will revert back to the EU going forward is uncertain but I think we're in a position to rating in either case.
Bill Warmington with Raymond James have the next question.
A question for you on Copal and the strong growth that you're putting up there.
Once you anniversary the acquisition what kind of organic growth rate do you think you can generate there? I'll let Mark Almeida address that Bill.
I don't think we've disclosed an outlook for the professional services business which is where the Copal segment wise for 2013.
But it's a relatively high growth business.
It won't be our highest growth business but it's a good strong double-digit growth business.
I think that's better as much insight as we can offer at this stage.
Then one question for you on the residential and mortgage-backed security market just your thoughts on what needs to happen there before we see that market come back in size? I guess I'll put it in two categories.
One there are some incremental things that can be done in terms of reducing mortgage qualification limit for that converted Fannie and Freddie.
And that would move more of the market to the private label market and would be more likely to be rated.
But then there is the bigger structural question of the role that the government is going to play in the mortgage market on a long-term basis.
And that is a politically and fiscally very very changeling side of issues that the government is going to have to deal with.
And so that's why we are cautious about any sizable expansion of the RMBS market in the near-term because of the dismal political dynamics.
And then one final question on enterprise risk.
Just what products within that segment are driving the growth and how long is the tails on those products? When you say tail on the products do you mean the sale or the actual product placement? And the ongoing of revenue generated by the product? Yes well the ERS segment is doing very very well largely driven by regulatory driven demand that we're seeing from our banking and insurance customers.
And we would expect to continue to see very healthy demand for that product at over the next couple of years.
And we'll take a follow-up from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
So Ray just a follow-on to your comments earlier about what's going on in Europe.
Is it possible to get any quantification around this concept of disintermediation and how big you see the market opportunity from that? Well we've talked about it not specifically in the European sense but in terms of the impact of disintermediation on our overall revenue growth is being a couple of points.
And it's both anticipating what is happening from de-leveraging but it's also looking at the pace at which we have been getting new rating mandates over the last few years and that has been a reasonably steady pace.
And in Europe coming it's associated more with the stress in the banking sector and in places like Asia it has been associated more with economic growth outpacing banking system capacity.
So the underlying drivers of the disintermediation changed a bit by geography but the consequence the overall number of ratings mandates has been increasing as I said at a pretty steady rate.
I guess I was wondering if maybe given the turmoil in Europe the one or two percentage point incremental revenue from disintermediation that seems like that potentially could be conservative on the near term basis.
What do you think? No I don't think so.
I hope I am wrong.
But part of the turmoil in Europe is also corporations taking a conservative posture with respect to borrowing and business.
And so even though if they were to need additional capital or desire additional capital they are more likely to go to the bond market.
They are also in a defensive mode and so that's an offset.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have no additional questions.
I would like to turn things back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
I just want to thank you for joining the call today.
We look forward to speaking with you again after the New Year.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
And have a great weekend.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year-End 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's results for 2012 and our outlook for 2013.
I'm Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
This morning Moody's released its results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2012 as well as guidance for full year 2013.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody's Corporation will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody's Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found towards the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's fourth quarter and full year 2012 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights and I will then speak to recent regulatory and legal developments and finish with comments on our outlook for 2013.
After our prepared remarks we'll be happy to respond to your questions.
Fourth quarter revenue of $754 million increased 33% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
We benefited from double-digit revenue growth in most lines of business driven by robust Corporate finance ratings activity at Moody's Investor Service and continued strong growth across Moody's Analytics.
Operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $494 million a 25% increase from the fourth quarter of 2011 and included a nontax-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $12 million or an EPS impact of about $0.06 related to our training and certification business.
Operating income for the fourth quarter was $260 million a 51% increase from the prior year period.
Adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter was $296 million up 54% from the same period last year.
Diluted earnings per share of $0.70 for the fourth quarter increased 63% from the prior year period.
For full year 2012 Moody's revenue of $2.7 billion increased 20% from full year 2011.
Revenue at Moody's Investor Service was $1.9 billion an increase of 20% from last year.
Moody's Analytics revenue of $844 million was 19% higher than the prior year period.
Approximately half of Moody's Analytics' 2012 revenue growth was organic.
Operating expenses for the full year 2012 were $1.7 billion up 19% from 2011.
Operating income of $1.1 billion increased 21% from $888 million in 2011.
Full year 2012 adjusted operating income of $1.2 billion increased 22% from the prior year period.
Diluted earnings per share of $3.05 for 2012 which included a $0.06 legacy tax benefit in the third quarter increased 22% from the prior year period.
Excluding legacy tax benefits in both years diluted earnings per share of $2.99 for the full year 2012 also grew 22% year-over-year.
I'll now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the quarter increased 33% to $754 million.
Foreign currency translation for the quarter was negligible.
U.S.
fourth quarter revenue increased 40% to $401 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 26% to $353 million and represented 47% of Moody's total revenue down slightly from 50% in the year-ago period.
Recurring revenue grew 10% to $351 million and represented 46% of total revenue down from 56% in the prior year period.
This was primarily the result of faster-growing transaction revenue driven by robust investment-grade and speculative-grade issuance.
Looking now at each of our businesses Moody's Investor Service revenue for the quarter was $519 million up 42% from the prior year period.
Foreign currency translation for the quarter unfavorably impacted MIS revenue by 1%.
U.S.
revenue for MIS increased 49% to $307 million over the prior year period.
Revenue outside the U.S.
of $213 million increased 32% and represented 41% of total ratings revenue.
Within MIS global corporate finance revenue in the fourth quarter increased 73% from the year-ago period to $245 million primarily driven by record issuance in both investment-grade and speculative-grade markets globally as corporations continued to take advantage of historically low interest rates.
Revenue was up 72% year-over-year in the U.S.
and up 76% outside of the U.S.
Global structured finance revenue for the fourth quarter was $103 million 18% above the prior year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 50% year-over-year due to strong issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities and collateralized loan obligations.
International structured finance revenue was down 9% against the prior year period primarily reflecting weaker issuance in residential mortgage-backed securities in Europe.
Global financial institutions revenue of $86 million increased 29% from the same quarter of 2011 primarily reflecting increased banking issuance activity from issuers taking advantage of improving market conditions.
U.S.
revenue was up 39% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 23% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Global revenue for the public project and infrastructure finance business rose 19% year-over-year to $85 million.
Revenue was up 9% in the U.S.
primarily due to gains in project finance while non-U.S.
revenue increased 36% reflecting growth in European infrastructure finance as issuers increasingly sought financing from the bond market as compared to banks.
Turning now to Moody's Analytics.
Global revenue for Moody's Analytics of $235 million was up 17% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Approximately 2/3 of MA's growth in the fourth quarter was organic.
Including the impact of foreign currency translation revenue grew 18%.
U.S.
revenue grew by 16% year-over-year to $94 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 18% to $141 million and represented 60% of the total Moody's Analytics revenue.
Globally revenue from research data and analytics of $126 million increased 9% from the prior year period and represented 54% of total MA revenue.
We continue to see good demand for credit research via our Credit Review (sic) [CreditView] offering as well as strong customer retention rates in the mid-90% range.
U.S.
revenue was up 11% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 7% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Revenue from enterprise risk solutions of $79 million grew 31% from last year reflecting strong growth of products and services that support bank regulatory and compliance activities as well as the December 2011 acquisition of Barrie &amp; Hibbert.
Revenue was up 19% in the U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue was up 36% against the prior year period.
Organic subscription revenue which includes MA's research data and analytics segment and certain products within MA's enterprise risk solution segment was up 10% for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Professional services revenue grew 21% to $30 million reflecting the acquisition of a majority stake in Copal Partners in November 2011.
U.S.
revenue nearly tripled while non-U.S.
revenue increased 11% year-over-year.
Turning now to expenses.
Moody's fourth quarter expenses were $494 million an increase of 25% compared to fourth quarter 2011.
Incremental compensation expense which accounted for slightly less than half of the year-on-year expense growth was primarily driven by higher accruals for incentive compensation and Moody's profit sharing.
This reflected the stronger full year results as well as increased headcount from our growth in our existing businesses and from acquisitions in late 2011.
Fourth quarter expense growth also reflected an accrual to cover future estimated legal defense costs for our upcoming Abu Dhabi and Rheinridge [ph] trials.
Expenses also included the previously mentioned nontax-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $12 million.
Excluding growth from incentive compensation and profit sharing as well as legal and impairment costs expenses for the fourth quarter were 10% higher than the prior year period.
Impact of foreign currency translation on operating expenses for the quarter was negligible.
Despite increased costs Moody's reported operating margin expanded 420 basis points year-over-year from 30.3% in the fourth quarter of 2011 34.5% for the current quarter.
Adjusted operating margin was 39.3% for the quarter up from 34% from the same period last year.
Moody's effective tax rate for the quarter was 31.5% compared with 37% for the prior year period.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the favorable impact of tax planning initiatives related to foreign income in 2012.
And now I'll provide an update on capital allocation.
Moody's increased its quarterly dividend on December 11 2012 by 25% to $0.20 per share of common stock.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 Moody's repurchased 1.5 million shares at a total cost of $71 million and issued 1.9 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plans.
For the full year 2012 Moody's repurchased 4.8 million shares at a total cost of $197 million for an average price of $40.58 per share and issued 6 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plans.
Shares outstanding as of December 31 2012 totaled 223 million essentially flat from a year earlier.
As of year end Moody's had 667 million shares -- $1 million excuse me of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program.
Moody's is currently in the market repurchasing shares under our systematic repurchase program.
As of December 31 2012 Moody's had $1.7 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of outstanding debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Cash and cash equivalents were $1.8 billion as of December 31 2012 an increase of $995 million from a year earlier due in part to Moody's August 12 bond offering of $550 million of unsecured notes.
As of December 31 2012 approximately 50% of our cash holdings were maintained outside the U.S.
Free cash flow for 2012 was $778 million an increase of $43 million from a year ago.
We remain committed to using our strong cash flow to create value for shareholders while maintaining sufficient liquidity.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I'll continue with an update on regulatory and legal developments.
In the U.S.
in December 2012 the SEC published and delivered its report under Dodd-Frank on matters relating to assigning credit ratings for structured finance products which is commonly referred to as the Franken amendment study.
After an analysis of the benefits and concerns of the various business models SEC staff identified potential courses of action but noted that any changes through commission rule making would require additional study of relevant information.
In this respect commission staff recommended that a roundtable be convened at which proponents and critics would be invited to discuss the study and its findings.
The timing of this roundtable has not yet been announced.
The remainder of the SEC's rule making under Dodd-Frank is expected later this year.
Turning to Europe as discussed on previous calls the European Commission proposed in November 2011 to expand regulatory oversight of credit rating agencies operating in the EU and to address issues such as reliance on ratings and regulation accountability competition transparency and managing conflicts of interest.
After a year of dialogue among political institutions regulatory authorities and market participants last month the European Parliament voted on and adopted a third round of legislation related to credit rating agencies known CRA3.
A few additional steps remain in the legislative process before CRA3 is finalized.
We expect that CRA3 will come into effect sometime in the second half of 2013.
Moody's is presently taking the necessary steps to prepare for the implementation of the new regulations.
As always we will continue to advocate for globally consistent approaches in line with the G-20 statements and directives.
Finally we have received a number of questions from shareholders and analysts about the U.S.
Department of Justice's civil complaint filed this week against McGraw-Hill and S&amp;P.
As we have been disclosing in our 10-Q and 10-K filings Moody's like other financial services firms has been subject to heightened scrutiny increased regulation ongoing investigation and civil litigation.
As such Moody's routinely receives inquiries and responds to requests for information as well as hosts inspections and reviews by authorities in jurisdictions worldwide.
While we believe specific matters are material we communicate those matters in our filings and other disclosures to the market.
Moody's has not been named as a party in the Department of Justice's complaint against McGraw-Hill and S&amp;P.
We have no basis to comment on that matter.
I'll conclude this morning's prepared remarks by discussing our full year guidance for 2013.
Moody's outlook for 2013 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability business investment spending merger and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issue.
There's an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody's results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end-of-quarter exchange rates.
Despite ongoing economic uncertainty we anticipate generally favorable market conditions will remain in place in 2013.
As a result we expect growth across all areas of our business this year.
For Moody's overall the company expects full year 2013 revenue to grow in the high single-digit percent range.
Full year 2013 operating expenses are projected to increase in the low single-digit percent range.
Full year 2013 operating margin is projected to be between 42% and 43% and adjusted operating margin for the year is expected to be between 46% and 47%.
The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 32%.
The company expects diluted earnings per share for the full year 2013 in the range of $3.45 to $3.55.
We expect full year 2013 share repurchases of approximately $500 million subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
These repurchases are meant to substantially offset the impact of employee stock-based compensation plans.
As you are aware we strive to strike a balance between share repurchases and dividends which have increased in line with earnings.
Capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $50 million.
We expect approximately $100 million in depreciation and amortization expense.
Incremental compliance and regulatory expense is projected to be in the $10 million to $15 million range.
For the global MIS business revenue for full year 2013 is expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MIS revenue is expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Corporate finance revenue is projected to grow in the high single-digit percent range.
Revenue from structured finance is expected to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Our revenue from financial institutions is expected to grow in the low single-digit range.
Public project and infrastructure finance revenue is expected to increase in the low double-digit percent range.
For Moody's Analytics full year 2013 revenue is expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MA revenue is expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range non-U.S.
revenue is expected to increase in the low double-digit percent range.
Revenue from research data and analytics is projected to grow in the high single-digit percent range while revenue for enterprise risk solutions and professional services are each projected to grow in the low double-digit percent range.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody's Investor Service; and Mark Almeida the President of Moody's Analytics.
We'd be pleased to take any actions you may have.
[Operator Instructions]  We'll take our first question from William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Ray given what your stock is doing are you likely to front-load stock buybacks this year? I think we're going to have to look at how the stock performs over a bit longer period of time.
Our thinking had been to be fairly balanced in our share repurchase throughout the year and we haven't made any different decision at this point.
Research Division</strong> Also I guess at a higher level you touched on recent legal developments.
I was wondering if you can just give kind of your perspective just on how one gets comfortable with recent legal developments.
Well I think the matter that I mentioned in our prepared remarks as far as the Department of Justice's complaint is -- really all I can say is that we are not a party to that and so we are not really able to comment because we don't have any information other than what is publicly available.
I would add that we don't have any knowledge of any impending complaint by the Department of Justice raising similar claims against Moody's.
We'll take our next question from Bill Warmington with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question for you is there were some news this morning that the European Central Bank said banks will be repaying EUR 5 billion of its emergency 3-year loan and -- over the next week.
I just wanted to ask about that -- sorry it's EUR 5 billion about USD 6.7 billion.
How about that as a driver of the financial institution issuance in Europe in 2013? Sure.
I guess it's probably worth reminding everyone that in the financial institutions area in particular our business is more heavily weighted towards recurring revenue and annual pricing agreements.
So we are not a susceptible leader on the positive or negative side to changes in issuance volumes.
That being said the indications -- any indications of repaying loans would be an indication of potential market stability and some improved economic activity and we would have to look at that as a positive.
At the same time we do expect that deleveraging in the banking sector particularly in Europe is going to continue and that's a positive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the share repurchases I just wanted to ask if the intent there is to offset dilution or to create a net reduction.
And in that sense I wanted to ask the -- your thoughts on what the fully diluted shares exiting 2013 are that are built into the $3.45 to $3.55 guidance.
Sure Bill.
It's Linda.
Our intent was doing $500 million of share repurchase in 2013 would be the first cover dilution from employee issuance plans; and then secondly to hopefully have some reduction in the overall share count.
Now that depends on a lot of things.
It's a little tricky to model because as you may have noticed our share price has been a bit volatile of late.
So at this point we are modeling a slight reduction but we're going to have to see how it goes.
Very tricky model at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Gotcha.
And that $12 million amortization charge that you mentioned does that -- I just want to confirm that works out to be about $0.05 after tax? I think we're thinking it's -- yes it's about $0.06 after tax.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $0.06 after tax.
Subject to rounding Bill.
But yes $12 million not to be tax affected.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I had one last question.
It's -- are you seeing any evidence on a -- of a shift in corporate debt issuance motives? It seems up until now the issuance has been very oriented towards refinancing.
Are you starting to see any issuance to other purposes? M&amp;A plant expansion something like that? Sure.
Let me talk a little bit about issuance.
And I'd like to first talk about investment grade and then I'd like to talk about high yield.
We've polled a couple of the banks going into this earnings call and I think the general comment would be issuance so far in 2013 has been stronger than expected.
January for U.S.
high grade we saw $112 billion of issuance.
That was the fifth largest month on record.
And the expected volumes for February polling 3 different banks -- and again we talked to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Citi and Morgan Stanley -- looking at an average of $67 billion for the U.S.
for February.
If you look at the last 7 years' average that was about $61 billion.
So that skews a little bit towards the higher end.
For the first quarter we're looking at an average of $262 billion of U.S.
high-grade issuance.
Again compared to what we might see over the 7-year average that was $234 billion.
So again first quarter in high grade is looking pretty healthy.
What we're seeing so far in terms of use of proceeds is mixed.
We're seeing some prefunding some share repo some pension funding some M&amp;A some refinancing.
So a bit of a mix across the use of proceeds scale.
Overall the banks are generally viewing that issuance will be down a bit 2013 over 2012.
We're seeing a range sort of ranging from flattish to down 10%-ish.
We are modeling revenues down for high grade in sort of the highest -- high-ish single digits.
We'd like to comment that every week we've seen positive fund flows for high grade this year total of $7.8 billion.
So incoming fund flows into bond funds are good.
Now turning to high yield activity in January has been robust and the quota is as good as it's ever been.
$41 billion of high-grade -- excuse me high-yield issuance in January and volumes for February about $23 billion of high-yield issuance.
Again we're seeing call it about 10% reduction in high-yield issuance in 2013 versus 2012.
And on use of proceeds basically the same things we've seen before: refinancing repricing M&amp;A dividends.
Not a lot of event-driven deals yet but we may see some move in that.
And again for high yields we are modeling revenues down 2013 over 2012 in sort of the high single-digit range.
Now we would note again fund flows into high yields bond funds have been positive as well.
So market trends are quite good.
Use of proceeds mixing it up a bit.
And overall the market looks pretty good for the first quarter.
So I hope that answers everything you had Bill.
We'll take our next question from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Ray can you talk at all about this situation with the various state attorneys general? I think you guys are named in a few of these suits.
Yes there are a couple that we have been named in.
They've been around for a while.
And as I at least touched on in the prepared remarks we get inquiries from regulators and various other authorities including the state attorneys general.
We obviously cooperate with those inquiries and we will continue to do so.
So it's something that is ongoing and we have been as responsive as we can be in trying to cooperate with the state AGs when they make information requests or have inquiries.
Research Division</strong> So the -- my understanding is that they're approaching this a little bit differently than the fraud charges that you've seen from the -- from other players.
Does that change the legal complexion at all from your perspective in terms of the potential risk? Well as you know there's a very high standard for fraud that is a higher standard than exists for some other potential claims that could be raised.
But again to the extent that these are information requests and inquiries it's a matter of us making sure we get the proper information back to the authorities at the proper time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Sorry to dwell on this Ray but one last thing on this.
The -- so the situation with New York State.
You've got sort of a settlement from a few years ago.
What kind of protection does that give you from further action by them? Well the settlement agreement itself is confidential.
I -- the New York Attorney General did issue a press release summarizing the -- some of the terms back in 2008 and you might want to go back and look at that.
We take that agreement very seriously and certainly believe that we are complying with that.
And so as for that matter we think we have done everything that we have been asked to do in reaching the agreement with the AG.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Ray or Linda the accrual for legal costs I'm not sure if you've done this before.
Can -- have you and can you quantify what the number is? Sure Peter.
It relates to our insurance accounting.
And let's be very clear about what's going on here.
Because of that insurance accounting we were able to take a look at our most fulsome estimate of what's going on with the upcoming trial expenses which will take place in 2013 and take that expense in 2012.
So we have taken the provision in 2012 for the 2013 expenses.
The amount that we think that comprises in the quarter-over-quarter view will be $21.5 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Linda the structured finance business in the current quarter was quite robust.
Where is the strength coming from? And how do you think about the sustainability of that is the second question? Sure Peter.
I appreciate the questions about the business.
The structured finance business had a very strong fourth quarter.
We're seeing the strength as we mentioned in the script coming from CMBS issuance and also from CLO issuance which has been very heavy.
And we would expect both of those to continue.
As we look at the breakdown in the structured finance business for the fourth quarter a total of $102.9 million which is the best number we've seen in quite some time.
27% came from ABS; 19% came from RMBS; 28% of that came from commercial real estate; and 25% from derivatives.
Now I'd just add that the strength is really coming out of the U.S.
market as opposed to the European markets.
So we will be keeping an eye on the European side in particular to see whether there's going to be a pickup there in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Ray I'm sorry one last thing on the regulatory front.
The SEC rule making what -- any thoughts in terms of what might come out of that? We think that most of the thinking around this has been completed and we had been engaged really over the last year or so in implementing compliance and transparency process changes that we think are going to be aligned with the final rules.
So our expectation is that the communications that have come out of the SEC to date are going to be very consistent with the final rule making.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
I have some more questions on fundamentals as well here.
Linda would you be so kind to break out some more segment detail here on high-yield bank loans investment-grade et cetera for each of the 4 segments just the percentage of revenues reached in the quarter? Sure.
Craig with the notes that I already did structure so we'll consider that one already in the transcript let's go to corporate.
So total corporate issuance -- total corporate revenue excuse me for the fourth quarter of 2012 was $244.9 million.
And investment grade comprised 23% of that; high-yield comprised 24% of it; bank loans 20%; and other accounts which is MTNs and other things 34% of it.
So what we're seeing is that high yield is running quite strong and investment grade is running strong as well.
We went through structured for a previous inquiry so we'll go through FIG.
Total issuance of $86.2 million in the quarter.
Banking was 73% of the revenue; insurance 22% of the revenue; and managed investments 5% of the revenue.
And again that's relatively similar to what we've seen.
FIG does not move around all that much.
And then lastly public project and infrastructure was $85.4 million for the fourth quarter in revenues.
PFG and sovereigns comprised 47% of that revenue; munis 6%; and project and infrastructure 47%.
And compared to a year ago a little bit heavier on the project and infrastructure and a little bit lighter on the PFG and sovereigns.
But also that area is running pretty strongly for us right now.
Do you want to me to do Moody's Analytics as well Craig? Sure.
Okay.
$234.8 million for the quarter.
54% from research data and analytics; 34% from enterprise risk solutions; and 13% from professional services.
And from a year ago running a little bit heavier on enterprise risk solutions.
Last year it was 29% of Moody's Analytics' total and this year 34%.
I think that covers it all.
And then also on the cost front in the quarter can you tell us please what the incentive compensation accrual was in the fourth quarter here? Sure.
Incentive compensation for the fourth quarter was $60.1 million which is up from $31.9 million in the same quarter last year.
Obviously we had an historically strong performance in the fourth quarter so incentive compensation moved up.
Profit sharing which we cover in a different line Craig was also higher as well for the fourth quarter.
How much was that one up? That was $2.6 million last year and $4.3 million for this year.
And then just for the benefit of all can you maybe give us the incentive comp for each of the first 3 quarters? I have it but I think it'd be helpful for people to see how it is progressing for the year.
Sure.
For 2012 it's laid out and this is both bonus and profit sharing.
It was $30.8 million in the first quarter; $28.2 million in the second quarter; $70.7 million in the third quarter; and $64.4 million in the fourth quarter for a total of $194 million for the year.
Now for next year we're going to normalize back to 100% of bonus targets.
So you should see this number come off Craig.
And what we think we'd like you to do is model about $30 million a quarter for total incentive compensation if it runs flat across the year.
So $30 million-ish maybe a little higher incentive compensation for each of the quarters in 2013.
Should be $120 million $125 million if we hit our targets at 100%.
Of course if we do better incentive compensation and profit sharing will be higher.
Will that do it? And then also -- no I've got a couple more little minor ones if I could.
That's on the pricing front what's your expectation for pricing for surveillance fees for new fees and also for transaction this year? Sure.
We don't go into the line by line.
I think we would say mid-single-digit price increases across-the-board.
That comprises a variety of complexity: higher in some areas lower in some areas.
It's -- it really depends on the region the product the geography.
Yes and I'll just add Craig that again remember it still does relate to volume of issuance.
So if we have heavier issuance volume the pricing that relates to transaction-based revenue obviously goes up; and if issuance is lighter we're going to see less benefit from pricing.
LLC</strong> And so the pricing increase this upcoming year is what's driving maybe half of this 8% to 9% increase you're talking about for research data and analytics for 2013? It's roughly half that pricing? I don't think it's going to be -- I don't think it's going to be that much now.
LLC</strong> So the rest volume then you're saying? And mix.
And craig as we said in the script very high retention business -- rates in that business high -- a mid-90s retention which is great.
We'll take our next question from Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Ray just sort of looking at -- and you've had a few questions on this already on sort of issuance trends.
I mean the comps do get quite tough as '12 of -- I mean as you go up against '12 numbers as the year evolves particularly in high grade and high yield in the U.S.
But it looks like your international and particularly Europe is picking up at a number of your sectors probably project finance infrastructure we talked about banking.
And also it looks like the structured market is slowly coming into form.
It's -- so I guess I'm just curious as to your thoughts on kind of new areas of growth that you're starting to see and what that might mean for '13.
Sure.
Let me ask Michel Madelain if he would like to comment on this particularly on the European side since you raised that.
I think in Europe really if you look by different  asset classes I think in structured finance as we say the volumes this year have been disappointing against what we've seen in the U.S.
The mix between U.S.
and non-U.S.
business has shifted actually.
In the U.S.
it's about 60% in terms of revenues versus international and it was at this number last year.
We don't expect next year necessarily a rapid uptake of volume in Structured Finance in Europe for a variety of reasons.
In term of PFG I think the main driver continues to be this intermediation.
That's more than refinancing.
I think that's the difference against with what we're seeing here.
And in term of infrastructure I think that we have similar trends than the one we're seeing in -- on the corporate side basically.
Again intermediation and demand for credit basically which helped us effectively.
And financial institutions the story there is really a question of return to confidence.
And I think again with confidence coming return to market access especially from the less frequent issuers which are impacting our revenue line.
Doug this is Linda.
I just wanted to comment we've got every quarter up quarter-over-quarter for the rating agency this year.
We would take your point that the fourth quarter of 2012 was pretty strong.
And so the fourth quarter may be a little bit softer than the fourth quarter of 2012.
But every other quarter we've got up for our rating agency revenue if that helps you.
We'll take our next question from Edward Atorino from Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mine was sort of answered but with the financing and stuff will interest expense be much different in 2013 from 2012? Sure.
Interest expense Ed looking at nonoperating expenses it's pretty simple.
The main thing will be we did our bond deal for $500 million back in August.
We're carrying slightly higher expenses on borrowings for that.
We were running about $16 million a quarter last year Ed for that.
And this year we're going to be running about $21 million $22 million.
And that's the main difference in that line nothing much more exciting than that.
LLC Research Division</strong> $80 million -- in the 80s for the year? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> $80 million yes.
Yes that's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> One final question.
I don't want to belabor this.
There was another story that the New York somebody is going to go poking around.
Have you heard from these people? Or is this just a press story? I'm sorry the -- who's...
LLC Research Division</strong> The New York Attorney General I think or somebody was going to go poking around.
Is this for real? Or is this just a story in the news? Well as I said we receive inquiries from authorities including the attorneys general from time to time.
And so they may very well have information they would like us to make available.
And if they do of course we are going to be responsive to that.
LLC Research Division</strong> You haven't received any notices or anything like that? Well there's -- there are...
LLC Research Division</strong> [Indiscernible] No no there are inquiries information requests in-house on an ongoing basis.
And so we continue to make the information requested available and we'll do so.
We'll take our next question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> If I can just shift the focus away from ratings for a minute.
On the Moody's Analytics side can you remind us just sort of in terms of what the M&amp;A pipeline looks like? I know there was some press or you guys are probably looking at another one of those outsource services things.
But just generally I know we went through some of that at the Investor Day but if anything has changed in terms of what the pipeline there is? Well I'll invite Mark Almeida to add any comments that he would like.
But at a high level I think as we communicated at Investor Day last year we feel like we have filled out the need to have components of that business and the business is positioned to grow nicely.
That being said if we do find opportunities for synergistic complementary businesses at reasonable prices where -- we would look at that.
And Mark I don't know if there's anything else you want to...
No I think that's exact right.
We're always looking at things either things that we proactively are intrigued by or things that are brought to us.
So beyond that I can't really say much about the pipeline.
It is -- it looks a lot like what it usually looks at.
We have a lot of different things that we're thinking about and considering but nothing particularly remarkable to report beyond that.
And Manav we continue to look at what we term tuck-in or bolt-on acquisitions of the sort of size we've been doing before.
I don't think any of us are excited about anything transformative.
So sort of the same kind of scales we've been looking at previously.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 more in there.
So on the RD&amp;A line item it seems like that moves somewhat alongside I guess how ratings generally does.
I just want to know if that's the right way to think about it.
And then on the ERS side it's clearly you guys based on the guidance for this year at least are guiding some good growth.
It seems like in that segment though I guess where you're helping everyone with the compliance needs there's been -- if I Google something I can see a lot of different companies doing a lot of things in that area.
I was just wondering if there was a way to frame competition around that share maybe or how to visualize the opportunity there.
First on RD&amp;A I don't think looking at revenue trends in the rating agency is going to be particularly helpful there.
You'll tend to see I think more volatility in the rating revenue lines either up or down and relatively more stability on the RD&amp;A line just given the fact that it's a subscription business with very high retention rates.
So I don't think you can really correlate very well with activity levels in the rating business.
On the -- in the enterprise risk solutions space we do feel good about that business.
That's a business where we've been making a lot of investment.
We feel like we're getting very good traction there and expect to continue to grow that at a very good clip.
It is a highly competitive business.
There are lots of people that we compete with in that space not the least is internal development that our customers which are typically large banks they do a lot of their own internal development.
So we're up against other providers as well as the internal build within our customer organizations.
So it's very competitive but it's a very big and fast-growing market.
We've been talking to a number of market analysis sources about expectations for the size of that market and you get some very big numbers.
Anywhere -- we've had estimates of the size of the risk management software business anywhere from $5 billion to $25 billion.
So either of those numbers for us are big numbers and we think there's a lot more share that we're going to win there.
It's -- this is Ray.
I would just add to that that not only do we feel we have a strong expertise in the software development area but the scope the breadth and depth of the data that we have available is really we think unparalleled and that is supportive of that business.
With no further questions in the phone queue I would like to turn the conference back to Ray McDaniel for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
I just want to thank everyone for joining the call today and we'll be speaking with you again in April.
Thanks.
This concludes Moody's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End Earnings Call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time on Moody's website.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome's to the Moody's Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Ms.
Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's' first quarter results for 2013.
I'm Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
This morning Moody's released its results for the first quarter of 2013.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody's Corporation will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody's Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found towards the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the act I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's' first quarter 2013 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights and I will then speak to recent regulatory and legal developments and finish with comments on our outlook for 2013.
After our prepared remarks we will be happy to respond to your questions.
First quarter revenue of $732 million increased 13% over the first quarter of 2012 reflecting strong operating performance for both Moody's Investors Service and Moody's Analytics.
Operating expenses for the first quarter which include a litigation settlement charge related to the resolution of our Abu Dhabi and Rhinebridge cases were $451 million a 19% increase from the first quarter of 2012.
Excluding the litigation settlement charge operating expenses increased 4% year-over-year.
Operating income for the first quarter was $280 million a 4% increase from the prior year period.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $304 million also up 4% from the same period last year.
Excluding the litigation settlement charge first quarter operating income and adjusted operating income increased 25% and 23% respectively year-over-year.
Diluted earnings per share for the first quarter increased 9% from the prior year period to $0.83 which includes the litigation settlement charge of $0.14.
Excluding the litigation settlement charge diluted earnings per share of $0.97 increased 28% year-over-year.
Our full year 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance range is now $3.49 to $3.59 which reflects our continued focus on cost control and also excludes the impact of the litigation settlement charge.
I'll now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's' total revenue for the quarter increased 13% to $732 million.
Foreign currency translation for the quarter was negligible.
U.S.
first quarter revenue increased 18% to $406 million while revenue outside of U.S.
grew 8% to $326 million and represented 45% of Moody's' total revenue down slightly from the 47% in the year ago period.
Recurring revenue grew 6% to $350 million and represented 48% of total revenue down from 51% in the prior year period.
Looking now at each of our businesses.
Moody's Investors Service revenue for the quarter was $521 million up 15% from the prior year period.
The impact of foreign currency translation on MIS revenue was negligible.
U.S.
revenue for MIS increased 21% over the prior year period to $313 million.
Revenue outside of the U.S.
of $208 million increased 8% and represented 40% of total ratings revenue.
Turning now to the MIS business lines.
First global corporate finance revenue in the first quarter increased 29% from the year ago period to $258 million primarily driven by strong speculative-grade bank loan and bond issuance as corporations continued to take advantage of historically low interest rates.
Revenue was up 25% year-over-year in the U.S.
and up 36% outside of the U.S.
Secondly global structured finance revenue for the first quarter was $93 million down 1% from the prior year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 26% year-over-year due to strong issuance of collateralized loan obligations and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
Non-U.S.
structured finance revenue was down 29% against the prior year period primarily reflecting weaker issuance of residential mortgage-backed securities in Europe.
Thirdly global financial institutions revenue of $87 million increased 10% from the same quarter of 2011.
U.S.
revenue was up 14% primarily reflecting increased bond issuance by insurance companies while non-U.S.
revenue was up 7% as compared to the first quarter of 2012 driven by stronger banking activity from issuers taking advantage of generally favorable market conditions.
Finally for MIS global revenue for the public project and infrastructure finance business rose 5% year-over-year to $83 million.
Revenue was up 10% in the U.S.
due to gains in both public and infrastructure finance while non-U.S.
revenue declined 3%.
And turning now to Moody's Analytics.
Global revenue for Moody's Analytics of $211 million was up 9% from the first quarter of 2012.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation revenue grew 10%.
As you know we have not made any organic acquisitions during the past year.
We are very pleased with our organic revenue growth this quarter which demonstrates the inherent strength of our underlying businesses and is among the strongest in our industry.
U.S.
revenue grew by 10% year-over-year to $93 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 8% to $118 million and represented 56% of the total Moody's Analytics revenue.
Looking now at each of the MA business lines.
Revenue from research data and analytics of $130 million increased 8% from the prior year period and represented 62% of total MA revenue.
Our customer retention rate remains strong in the mid-90s percent range and we continue to see solid demand for credit research via our CreditView offering.
U.S.
revenue was up 8% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 9% as compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Second revenue from enterprise risk solutions of $53 million grew 10% from last year reflecting strong growth of products and services that support bank regulatory and compliance activities.
Revenue was up 12% in the U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue was up 9% against the prior year period.
Due to the variable nature of product timing enterprise risk solutions' revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Third professional services revenue grew 7% to $28 million reflecting strong growth in revenue from Copal Partners partially offset by softness in the training and certification business.
U.S.
revenue increased 32% while non-U.S.
revenue increased 3% year-over-year.
Finally we note that subscription revenue which includes MA's research data and analytics segment of certain products within the MA's enterprise risk solution segment was up 9% for the first quarter of 2013.
Turning now to expenses.
Moody's' first quarter expenses were $451 million an increase of 19% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
However excluding the litigation settlement related to the resolution of our Abu Dhabi and Rhinebridge cases expenses were up 4% year-over-year.
More specifically this year's P&amp;L will be impacted only in the first quarter by expenses associated with the litigation settlement charge which is tax-deductible.
The impact of foreign currency translation on operating expenses for the quarter was negligible.
Moody's reported operating margin for the quarter was 38.3% down from 41.6% in the first quarter of 2012.
Adjusted operating margin was 41.5% for the quarter down from 45.2% for the same period last year.
Again excluding the litigation settlement charge first quarter reported operating margin and adjusted operating margin were 46.1% and 49.3% respectively.
Moody's effective tax rate for the quarter was 28.5% compared with 32.1% for the prior year period.
Now I'll provide an update on capital allocation.
During the first quarter of 2013 Moody's repurchased 1.9 million shares at a total cost of $91 million or an average price of $48.48 per share and issued 2.2 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plans which are substantially issued in the first quarter of each year.
Outstanding shares of March 30 -- as of March 31 2013 totaled 222.9 million reflecting a 1% decline from a year earlier.
As of March 31 2013 Moody's had $1.6 billion of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program reflecting the additional $1.0  billion of share repurchase authority approved on February 12 2013.
As of March 31 2013 Moody's had $1.6 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Cash and cash equivalents were $1.8 billion as of March 31 2013 an increase of $943 million from a year earlier.
As of March 31 2013 approximately 50% of our cash holdings were maintained outside the U.S.
Free cash flow of $194 million increased $147 million from a year ago due in part to first quarter 2012 payments related to the settlement of state and local matters.
While -- we remain committed to using our strong cash flow to create value for shareholders while maintaining sufficient liquidity.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I'll continue with a brief update on regulatory and legal developments.
First in the U.S.
In December 2012 the SEC published its report under Dodd-Frank on matters related to assigning credit ratings for structured finance products commonly referred to as Franken amendment study.
On May 14 the commission will host a roundtable to which Moody's has been invited and in which we will participate.
Turning to Europe.
As discussed on previous calls few additional steps remain in the legislative process for a third round of legislation related to credit rating agencies known as CRA3 is finalized.
We expect that CRA3 will come into effect sometime in the second half of 2013 and we are currently preparing for its implementation.
Finally as you are aware last week we settled 2 litigation matters known as the Abu Dhabi and Rhinebridge cases.
These settlements allow us put the distraction of these very protracted legal matters behind us.
I'll conclude this morning's prepared comments by discussing our full year guidance for 2013.
Moody's' outlook for 2013 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability business investment spending merger and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There's an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody's' results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end-of-quarter exchange rates.
As I mentioned earlier our full year 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance range is now $3.49 to $3.59 which reflects our continued focus on cost control and also excludes the impact of the litigation settlement charge.
For Moody's overall the company still expects full year 2013 revenue to grow in the high single-digit percent range.
Full year 2013 operating expenses are now projected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Full year 2013 operating margin is now projected to be 41% to 42% and adjusted operating margin for the year is now expected to be 44% to 45%.
Guidance ranges for operating expenses operating margin and adjusted operating margin all include the litigation settlement charge.
The effective tax rate is still expected to be approximately 32%.
We still expect full year 2013 share repurchases of approximately $500 million subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
Capital expenditures are still projected to be approximately $50 million.
We still expect approximately $100 million in depreciation and amortization expense.
Incremental compliance and regulatory expense is still projected to be $10 million to $15 million.
Free cash flow is expected to be approximately $850 million.
Certain components of our 2013 guidance have also been modified to reflect the company's currently view of business conditions.
For the Global MIS business revenue for full year 2013 is still expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MIS revenue is now expected to increase in the low double-digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is now expected to increase in the low single-digit percent range reflecting anticipated ongoing weakness in the European structured finance markets.
Corporate finance revenue is now projected to grow in the low double-digit percent range.
Revenue from structured finance is now expected to be about flat while revenue from financial institutions is still expected to grow in the low single-digit percent range.
Public project and infrastructure finance revenue is still expected to increase in the low double-digit percent range.
For Moody's Analytics full year 2013 revenue is still expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
Moody's Analytics revenue is also expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range.
Non-U.S.
revenue is now also expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range.
Revenue from research data and analytics is still projected to grow in the high single-digit percent range while revenue for enterprise risk resolutions is still expected to grow in the low double-digit percent range.
Professional services revenue is now projected to grow in the high single-digit percent range reflecting softness in the training and certification business.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Mark Almeida President of Moody's Analytics.
Michel Madelain the President of Moody's Investor Service is traveling and unable to join us today.
We'd be pleased to take any questions that you have.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll hear first from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The first question just on the litigation settlement.
I mean I guess you've given us many different ways to back into it which is helpful.
Can you just maybe help clarify how that works with like I guess what the accounting is with the 20 million reserves you took last quarter like does that have any adjustments in this quarter? And also what the tax rate for the tax-deductibility of that settlement is? Well with respect to the reserves any remaining amounts that we had accrued for defense costs relating to Abu Dhabi or Rhinebridge are no longer necessary and those have been reversed.
And Manav it's Linda.
We're not going to attempt to go through how the accounting works step by step on the call.
However we would note that our 10-Q is coming out later today.
You may want to take a look at that.
And as I said earlier in the script the settlement charge is tax-deductible.
We're not going to go into information on the specific rate though.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I ask -- in terms of the guidance which on the expense and margin side you obviously lowered because of the settlement charge if we would exclude that did the sort of ranges and commentary you provided us last quarter change one way or the other materially? We had been at $3.45 to $3.55 which was a GAAP number.
We've had the settlement charge which is $0.14.
Our new EPS guidance which is non-GAAP we would note is $3.49 to $3.59.
That centers on $3.54 which shows an increase of $0.04 as a result of as Ray said increased focus on cost control.
Now we'll see where we go as we go through the year.
Ray may want to comment a little bit further.
We're only through 1 quarter of the year.
In recent years we've been surprised by things like interesting activities in Europe during the summer.
So for this point in the year we think that $3.49 to $3.59 feels about right.
Yes I'd just emphasize Linda's point.
On Europe we have taken a cautious approach in our outlook.
Hopefully it's a conservative approach.
But for each of the last few years we have had periods of market interruption or dislocation really centered on some of the stresses and recessionary pressures in Europe.
Our next question today comes from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Ray you've enjoyed very impressive growth in the Moody's Investors Services business for the last several years.
We're seeing some signs of life domestically in the structured finance markets.
So I'm wondering how your thinking has changed if at all in terms of sustainable revenue growth outlook for the ratings side of the business now that structured finance seems to be coming back.
Are you feeling any more optimistic about what the revenue numbers could look like over the next few years? Well as you note Peter I think I've been feeling pretty optimistic about the outlook for the last few years.
We have said that we think we can on average grow at a low double-digit percent rate.
Obviously that will be subject to cyclical factors.
But the underlying drivers for the business I think are as strong if not stronger today than they have been in recent years.
As economic activity regains some momentum in the U.S.
as Europe works through the stresses that it has to work through and the consequences of that in terms of changes in the banking system and growth in the bond markets capital markets and the further maturation of the emerging capital markets all of these are powerful.
I'd also just note that the recent comments very recent comments coming out of the European Central Bank looking for resumption of asset-backed securitization activity in Europe are also encouraging if a longer-term driver.
Research Division</strong> And Linda on the tax rate specifically for the first quarter beyond litigation there was something else going on I assume.
Can you help us understand that? Sure Peter.
That was primarily due to the domestic tax benefit associated with the litigation settlement but again we'd ask you to take a look at the Q and see what you think and then maybe we can help you a little bit further.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then Linda can you give me any guidance on the cost of implementation of CRA3? Is that going to be a big item? What we've said in terms of the incremental regulatory and compliance expense Peter we've mentioned and Ray just confirmed $10 million to $15 million this year.
We think we've got a good start on much of that but again those rules are not totally finalized.
So we're going to have to wait and see what comes of that.
Peter I wanted to take just a moment to kind of go through market conditions which Ray had touched on sort of in the macro.
And if it's okay with you we've got some commentaries around what we're hearing from the banks in terms of investment-grade and high-yield issuance if that's okay with you? Research Division</strong> Please.
Okay.
So investment-grade issuance to date 2013 we've heard has surprised to the upside.
We've seen $325 billion of year-to-date issuance versus $319 billion in 2012 which is an increase of 2%.
$50 billion had been expected in April and the total came in at $106 billion.
Now $17 billion of that was Apple so you can do what you want with that information.
One bank is reviewing its 2013 volume predictions of $800 billion and may move that up by $50 billion to $100 billion.
Another is keeping its original forecast of $750 billion as it expects issuance to flow in the second half of the year.
So you can kind of look at some different views there on issuance.
Apple had the largest U.S.
dollar offering at $17 billion and generated demand of $50 billion had the largest single tranche ever of $55 billion.
Expected high-grade volumes in May are $80 billion to $100 billion and expected high-grade second quarter volumes are $200 billion to $250 billion in issuance.
The key things we're seeing: continuing drop in U.S.
Treasury rates which were 2.05% in March 1.64% currently; and continued tightening in spreads.
Investment-grade spreads are at record lows 20 basis points tighter year-to-date and that is very helpful for borrowers.
We're seeing new and infrequent issuers playing a larger role this year.
We've seen borrowers who haven't tapped the markets since before 2009 comprise 25% of corporate issuance.
So that's a different borrower group than we've seen before.
We're seeing dropped new issue concessions and preference for shorter-dated paper as investors are concerned about what will happen with the eventual Fed exit.
Use of proceeds is mostly refinancing with some M&amp;A and recent uptick in return of capital such as Apple and fund flows have been positive: $29 billion flowing into investment-grade funds versus $23 billion in 2012.
If we turn to high yields similarly to the high-grade market high yield has outpaced expectations.
Demand for loans though continues to outpace bonds.
Bond $130 billion year-to-date versus $127 billion last year.
Loans at about double that pace $286 billion in high-yield high-leverage loans versus $108 billion last year.
That's up 65%.
We expect those volumes to be about -- bond volumes to be the same as 2012 and loans expected to be higher.
We are seeing still a lot of CLO issuance running 3x ahead of 2012.
Use of proceeds for high yield is about 2/3 refinancing and the balance M&amp;A and general corporate purposes.
Funds flow is about $1.7 billion into bonds year-to-date and significantly higher funds flows into leveraged loans about 4x that of funds.
$9.3 billion fund flows into leveraged loans.
So we're continuing to see good fundamentals good levels and that's helpful to us.
So sorry for the long explanation but hope that's helpful.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
That's very helpful.
And can I just ask one other thing? Sure.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the Abu Dhabi settlement should we perhaps interpret that as an indication of greater willingness to consider settlement of other cases? No.
We haven't changed our view on how we handle litigation.
As a general matter our approach is unchanged.
There were circumstances in this case that made us feel that the ongoing legal cost of 2 federal trials and the distraction of those cases made it in the best interest of shareholders that we go ahead and complete the settlement.
Our next question today comes from William Bird with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk about just your point of view on the durability of the strength you've seen in leveraged loans.
And Linda can you discuss I guess how you see your expense profile unfolding in coming quarters? Sure.
On leveraged loans Bill it seems to be the place where investors want to be in the high-yield sector right now.
As I just said fund flow is running 4x stronger into those leveraged loans and it seems to be that given the questions about the interest rate outlook variable-rate paper seems to be more attractive to investors than fixed-rate paper.
So we would expect that that trend would probably continue.
Now of course issuance in the high yield area whether bonds or loans is very specifically tied to that all-in funding cost.
And if that moves which it sometimes does we can see periods where windows close pretty quickly.
But for right now things look relatively good.
Yes I'd just add that some of this is -- I think we've characterized as opportunistic given the rate environment that Linda referenced and the relatively narrow spreads that we're seeing.
And some of it is I think again more structural in terms of a shift in the mix of debt and the rating of bank loans that are then available to go into other vehicles such as collateralized loan obligations and there's been a lot of demand for those vehicles.
So I would expect that outside of the opportunistic nature of this we would also continue to see the diversification of the debt mix available in the market.
And Bill on your second question regarding the expense outlook we want to be very clear in explaining to everyone that first quarter includes all the charges related to the litigation settlements.
That's it.
So you won't see those in the future quarters.
If you remove those settlement costs we still expect expenses to ramp about $50 million over the balance of the year from Q1 sort of normalized expenses through to Q4.
About half of that will be growth in compensation and the other half will be various non-comp costs.
So that's what the outlook is for right now.
Research Division</strong> And what was your incentive comp accrual in the quarter? Sure.
Hang on just one second.
We'll get that for you.
Okay incentive comp for the quarter was about $30 million which was about flat to last year's first quarter incentive compensation accrual.
And we'll take our next question from Alex Kramm with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just staying on the I guess on the MIS business and the outlook there.
It looks like this quarter you had tremendous operating leverage if I back out the settlement charge.
I mean really really high like 90%-plus or so.
So just maybe you can give us a little bit more color on what drove that.
Obviously you just talked about high yield being strong in bank loans but maybe just talk about the different areas and how they changed your margin profile as we think about the outlook here.
Well the strength in corporate finance in terms of issuance volumes was complemented by the mix because it was the speculative-grade part of that market that was so active.
And that is as we've discussed previously a beneficial area for us financially when that is active.
Linda may have some more specifics on this but I don't think we had 90% leverage.
But it was a good quarter obviously.
Sure Alex.
Generally I count on Craig to ask this question but I'll go ahead anyway.
For the first quarter of 2013 looking at the corporate line as compared to first quarter last year investment grade was about flat at $44 million but that was only 17% of the total corporate line of $258 million.
Last year it was higher at 22%.
So high yield was considerably higher $75.6 million versus $51.6 million last year and it's 29% of the total corporate line.
So you're correct.
We've seen much greater revenue from this spec-grade line.
Bank loans also considerably higher $55.8 million this year versus $34.7 million last year.
That's up 22%.
And other accounts also up nicely to $82.4 million from $70 million last year.
That's 32%.
So the total for corporate is $258.3 million and that represents 50% of the whole MIS business.
So I hope that helps you.
Research Division</strong> Yes I didn't mean to steal anybody's question.
But real quick just to stay on the same topic.
When you compare bank loans and high yields how do those margin profiles compare? I know you can't really compare because it's probably the same people but how does that usually compare? Yes it is the same people and it's really driven as much as anything by whether we are seeing relatively more refinancing or new money financing from new mandates.
And this past quarter we happened to have both a lot of new mandates which because they are more time consuming than companies that we already follow are initially a lower-margin business but we also had very high levels of refinancing.
So it was just a strong quarter for spec-grade corporate book bonds and loans.
And Alex as we put out the new investor deck here in a couple of days we'll have more detail on the new mandates.
But new mandates are running strong and you can see that when we put out that new investor presentation pretty soon.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just moving on to the capital return real quick.
I think you gave the number of 500 million for buybacks.
Just backward looking a little bit here I mean you bought back a I would say small amount of stock in the first quarter.
So any more color you can give us? I mean the stock obviously got crushed if I may used that word in early February and you obviously bought back at a good price.
But it seems like you could have been a little bit more aggressive in particular as you were working towards the settlement.
So maybe a little bit more color here.
Alex we'd point out a year is a long time and we've only been through 1 quarter.
We've done about $91 million worth which is about 20% of the $500 million that we said we would do.
So give us a little bit of time.
Things have changed quite a bit here in the last week so we're now focused on our forward-looking capital allocation program which we will be discussing and we'll take a look at our share repurchase.
We'll take a look at our dividend levels.
The stock price is higher.
Dividend yields could use a little bit of work.
We'll see where we go with that but we were -- are well aware of the $500 million commitment and we've got 3 quarters to go here.
And I'd just add that again our ability to conduct opportunistic share repurchase as opposed to programmatic share repurchase is constrained when we have information that the market doesn't and these litigation settlements were something that we were obviously aware of in the weeks before it was announced.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's what I figured.
I just wanted to make sure.
And then just last one for me.
You gave a little bit of color on the outlook here for the second quarter.
I think one area you didn't touch upon was the RMBS or -- particularly the private market there.
It seems like we're seeing a few green shoots here with a little bit of issuance in the U.S.
here a couple of things coming to market.
So any other color you could provide when you talk to the banks and issuers and so forth? Yes I would agree with you.
We are seeing some green shoots.
That market is coming back slowly as issuers and investors look at the appropriate terms conditions for a resumption of the RMBS market.
So the absolute volume levels are still quite light even though we can see some progress.
Unfortunately it's being more than offset on a cyclical basis from the European side where the RMBS market as well as the covered bond market have been very weak in the first quarter.
But again the good news there is we can see that that is a cyclical downturn as opposed to something longer-term.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move next to Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I guess one change in guidance in structured.
You previously saw overall as up mid-single now you're saying flat.
And obviously U.S.
looks quite strong.
So I'm wondering if you can elaborate on the weakness you're seeing in structured in Europe.
And then in terms of your guidance for the year obviously the comps in the second half investment grade and high yield are more difficult.
Can you comment on that? Yes.
As you've I think correctly identified there's a bit of a tug-of-war going on in structured finance where we're seeing good growth in the U.S.
and offsetting declines outside the U.S.
particularly centered in Europe as I said and particularly centered in the mortgage-backed securities in Europe.
Although really most asset categories in Europe were down in the first quarter.
So we don't expect it to be down as much in the succeeding quarters as it was in the first quarter but again we are cautious about the pace of recovery in the European market.
As I said earlier in our comments hopefully we are being overly conservative on that.
But right now we're just not seeing a lot in the pipeline there.
And Doug it's Linda.
In terms of MIS as a whole MIS as we said did $521 million in the first quarter.
The second quarter is about the same and the third quarter would be the one where we'd ask everybody to focus a little bit and look at expectations for the third quarter in terms of the MIS revenue line.
You're right that comps get tougher as we go through the year.
But traditionally third quarter has been a little bit softer.
Again as Ray had said we continue to be on the watch for any unusual activity in terms of the European situation in the third quarter.
And then the fourth quarter as you pointed out in 2012 was tremendously strong.
And that as we said on the previous call may be the only one that isn't absolutely up from last year.
So I hope that helps you in terms of how we're thinking about it which of course may or may not be a correct and accurate forecast.
We're going to have to see.
Research Division</strong> So let me just clarify.
In the third quarter you're saying traditionally -- obviously it's a summer quarter.
It's traditional weaker.
So I mean is your implication that between that and the comps it will not be up much at this -- obviously it's very early to have a crystal ball.
No that's -- we had an unusually strong third quarter last year.
Just the market pattern didn't follow what we normally see and we're assuming that the third quarter is going to go back to being a relatively light quarter.
Our next question comes from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
I did want to just finish up that one question from before Linda if you could just break down within structured finance financial institutions and PPIF the revenue categories on a percentage basis and/or dollar? Sure Craig.
So we did CFG and we'll move on to structured.
So for the first quarter 2013 global structured revenue was $93 million.
And asset-backed securities of that is $23 million.
It's about 25% of the total.
RMBS about $17 million 18% of the total.
Commercial real estate $25 million which is 28% of the total.
And derivatives $26.8 million specifically which is 29% of the total.
So again very good strength in derivatives and that has been helpful to us.
Moving on to the FIG line.
We don't usually have a lot of exciting movement here.
$86.5 million for the quarter.
We're looking at $60 million for banking.
It's about 70% of the total which is about where we were last year.
Insurance is $22 million 26% of the total marginally up from last year.
Managed investments $3.9 million almost $4 million.
That's 5%.
So those percentages are relatively as they were last year with maybe a bit more strength in insurance.
Going on to public project and infrastructure.
Total for the quarter is $83 million.
Public finance and sovereigns $42 million which is 51% of the total about flat from last year.
Munis about $4 million again flat from last year.
Project and infrastructure $37 million 44% about the same as last year.
And again the total for PPIF is $83 million.
And I think that's it.
And then also just a couple of quick housekeeping questions and I think I might have a follow-on.
I think the last 2 quarters your cash on your balance sheet 50% to 52% of that was tied up overseas.
What's the update on that number please? Sure.
As we said on the script that continues to be about 50-50.
We've got about 8 50  [ph] in the U.S.
and about 9 10  [ph] internationally Craig.
Yes so it's 48% 52% right now.
Yes.
And is the plans of that given just how expensive it is to take it bring it back home here given the tax situation is just to keep it overseas and use it opportunistically for acquisitions? Yes that's correct.
And obviously if there are opportunities to bring it back under some sort of tax holiday we like everyone else in corporate America would look at that.
How much is your head count change here in the first 3 months this year please? Sure hang on just a second.
Let me see.
Since the end of 2012 not too much.
Let me see here.
We are up let me see we're up only 73 people since the end of last year which is about 1%.
So we haven't grown too much.
Over the course of the year Craig year-over-year comparisons were up 7%.
And most of that again has been in the business lines particularly Moody's Analytics and particularly overseas.
Those numbers do exclude -- include Copal Partners.
So that can be a big addition big line of addition for us.
And then my last question please.
Just speak a little about -- a little further about what happened over in Asia in the quarter on your ratings business.
Sure.
The Corporate Finance business in Asia was strong just as it was in Europe and the U.S.
Structured finance similar to Europe was somewhat soft although not nearly to the degree that Europe was.
And financial institutions we had growth that broadly reflected what we saw in the U.S.
So low double-digit growth outside of Europe internationally.
And public project and infrastructure finance which is relatively small but was down a bit in Asia.
If I could just sneak one more in here.
This upcoming roundtable discussion as you think about that are you expecting much -- anything material to come out of that? Well we will be participating in it.
There are a couple of different panels.
I think as you would expect the roundtables are an opportunity for people with very diverse points of view to share their views and for the staff at the SEC to collect this wide range of viewpoints.
I expect that's what's we're going to hear given the roles and responsibilities of the different participants who are joining the roundtable.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move next to Patrick O'Shaughnessy with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is with the Abu Dhabi and the King County cases resolved I think that knocks out 2 of the 3 legal proceedings that you had discussed in your SEC filings.
So maybe now is a good time to take a step back and kind of talk about where you see yourself in the overall process of dealing with these issues? And then I guess on a similar vein when you are through dealing with all these issues how do you view your professional expenses and the impact on your expense base when you no longer have to deal with all this stuff? Yes.
Just to answer the second question first yes we would expect to see a reduction in our ongoing legal defense costs from what they are today.
The trials that -- or the lawsuits that we are continuing to deal with are -- many of them are in discovery and the discovery process is a relatively expensive process.
That being said of the U.S.
lawsuits that were filed since the financial crisis we had about a little more than 4 dozen cases against us and a little more than 3 dozen of those cases are -- have been disposed of in one way or another.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you have about a dozen outstanding cases that you're currently working your way through? Yes approximately.
[Operator Instructions] It appears there are no further questions or comments at this time.
Okay.
I just want to thank everyone for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again in July.
Thanks.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude Moody's' First Quarter Earnings Call.
And as a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 3:30 p.m.
Eastern time on Moody's' website which is ir.moody's.com.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's second quarter results for 2013.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
This morning Moody's released its results for the second quarter of 2013.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody's Corporation will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody's Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the act I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's second quarter 2013 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights and I'll then speak to recent regulatory developments and finish with comments on our outlook for 2013.
After our prepared remarks we will be happy to respond to your questions.
Second quarter revenue of $756 million increased 18% over the second quarter of 2012 reflecting continued strong operating performance across the company.
Operating expenses for the second quarter were $405 million a 12% increase from the second quarter of 2012.
Operating income for the second quarter was $351 million a 26% increase from the prior year period.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $374 million up 24% from the same period last year.
Diluted earnings per share for the second quarter increased 32% from the prior year period to $1.
Our full year 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance range remains $3.49 to $3.59.
We are pleased to announce that we've increased our annualized dividend to $1 per share.
We also now anticipate total 2013 share repurchases of approximately $1 billion.
Turning to year-to-date performance revenue for the first 6 months of 2013 was $1.5 billion a 16% increase from the first 6 months of 2012.
Revenue at Moody's Investors Service was $1.1 billion for the first 6 months of 2013 an increase of 18% from a year ago.
Moody's Analytics revenue of $429 million was 9% higher than the prior year period.
Operating expenses for the first 6 months of 2013 were $857 million up 16% from 2012.
Operating income was $631 million increased 15% from $548 million in 2012.
Adjusted operating income was $678 million a 14% increase from the prior year period.
First half operating expenses operating margin and adjusted operating margin all include our first quarter litigation settlement charge.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.83 for the first 6 months of 2013 which included a $0.14 charge related to the settlement increased 20% from the prior year period.
Excluding the settlement diluted earnings per share of $1.97 for the first 6 months of 2013 grew 30% year-over-year.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the quarter increased 18% to $756 million.
Foreign currency translation for the quarter was negligible.
U.S.
second quarter revenue increased 18% to $408 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 18% to $348 million and represented 46% of Moody's total revenue for the quarter.
Recurring revenue grew 7% to $362 million and represented 48% of total revenue down from 53% from the prior year period.
Looking now at each of our businesses starting first with Moody's Investors Service.
Total MIS revenue for the quarter was $537 million up 22% from the prior year period.
U.S.
revenue for MIS increased 21% over the prior year period to $313 million.
MIS revenue outside of the U.S.
$224 million increased 22% and represented 42% of total ratings revenue.
The impact of foreign currency translation on MIS revenue was negligible.
Moving now to the lines of business for MIS.
First global corporate finance revenue in the second quarter increased 37% from the year-ago period to $263 million.
Revenue was up 28% year-over-year in the U.S.
as a result of strong investment-grade and high-yield bond issuance as well as bank loan issuance as corporations continue to take advantage of historically low interest rates.
Non-U.S.
revenue was up 52% driven by European speculative grade bond issuers shifting their bank debt to the public bond market.
Second global structured finance revenue for the quarter was $97 million up 7% from the prior year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 29% year-over-year due to strength in issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities.
Non-U.S.
structured finance revenue was down 17% against the prior year period primarily reflecting weaker issuance volumes in European residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities.
Third global financial institutions revenue of $85 million increased 9% from the same quarter of 2012.
U.S.
revenue was up 9% reflecting stronger banking activity while non-U.S.
revenue was up 8% driven by increased issuance by insurance companies.
Fourth global public project and infrastructure finance revenue rose 14% year-over-year to $93 million.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue were up 8% and 31% respectively from the prior year period due to gains in project and infrastructure finance globally.
Turning now to Moody's Analytics.
Global revenue from Moody's Analytics of $219 million was up 10% from the second quarter of 2012.
This year-over-year growth was entirely organic as we have not made any acquisitions in the past year.
U.S.
revenue grew by 8% year-over-year to $95 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased by 11% to $124 million and represented 56% of total Moody's Analytics revenue.
The impact of foreign currency translation on MA revenue was also negligible.
Moving to the lines of business for MA.
First global research data and analytics revenue of $130 million increased 7% from the prior year period and represented 60% of total MA revenue.
Our customer retention rate remains strong in the mid-90s percent range and we continue to see solid demand for MA's research offering.
Research Data and Analytics U.S.
revenue was up 6% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 9% as compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Second global enterprise risk solutions revenue of $60 million grew 17% from the same period last year driven by strong growth in products and services that support regulatory and compliance activities at banks and insurance companies.
Enterprise risk solutions revenue was up 12% in the U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue was up 19% against the prior year period.
As we noted in the past due to the variable nature of project timing and completion enterprise risk solutions revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
On a separate note subscription revenue which includes MA's research data and analytics business and certain products within MA's enterprise risk solutions business was up 10% for the second quarter of 2013.
Global professional services revenue grew 7% to $28 million reflecting solid growth and revenue from Copal Partners partially offset by softness in the training and certification business.
U.S.
revenue increased 23% while non-U.S.
revenue increased by 3% year-over-year.
Turning now to expenses Moody's second quarter expenses were $405 million an increase of 12% compared to the second quarter of 2012 reflecting increased headcount annual compensation increases and higher technology expenses.
The impact of foreign currency translation on operating expenses for the quarter was negligible.
Moody's reported operating margin for the quarter was 46.4% up from 43.5% in the second quarter of 2012.
Adjusted operating margin was 49.5% for the quarter up from 46.9% for the same period last year.
Moody's effective tax rate for the quarter was 32.2% compared with 33.6% for the prior year period.
And now I'll provide an update on capital allocation.
During the second quarter of 2013 Moody's repurchased 4.1 million shares at a total cost of $259.1 million and issued 1.7 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plans.
Outstanding shares as of June 30 2013 totaled 220.4 million reflecting a 1% decrease from the year earlier.
At the end of the second quarter Moody's had $1.3 billion of share repurchase authority remaining under our current program.
As of June 30 2013 Moody's had $1.6 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Cash and cash equivalents as of June 30 2013 were $1.6 billion an increase of $808.9 million from the year earlier.
At the end of the second quarter approximately 61% of our cash holdings were maintained outside the U.S.
Free cash flow of $351 million for the first 6 months of 2013 increased $137 million from a year ago primarily due to strong operating performance in the first half of 2013 as well as tax payments made in 2012 which related to prior tax years.
And I'll now turn the call back over to Ray.
Okay.
Thanks Linda.
I'll continue with an update on regulatory developments.
First in the U.S.
On May 14 the Securities and Exchange Commission hosted a full day roundtable on the various proposals made in its study relating to assigning credit ratings for structured finance products that are commonly referred to as the Franken Amendment study.
The roundtable was comprised of 3 panels and panel participants were asked to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of various business models.
Turning to Europe CRA3 was adopted earlier in the spring of 2013 and went into force as of June 20.
We have implemented the requisite policies and procedures accordingly.
I'll conclude this morning's prepared comments by discussing our full year guidance for 2013.
Moody's outlook for 2013 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability business investment spending merger and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There's an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody's results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates.
As I mentioned earlier our full year 2013 non-GAAP EPS guidance range remains at $3.49 to $3.59.
For Moody's overall the company still expects full year 2013 revenue to grow in the high-single-digit percent range.
Full year 2013 operating expenses are still projected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Full year 2013 operating margin is still projected to be 41% to 42% and adjusted operating margin for the year is still expected to be 44% to 45%.
Guidance ranges for operating expenses operating margin and adjusted operating margin all include the first quarter 2013 litigation settlement charge.
The effective tax rate is still expected to be approximately 32%.
We remain committed to using our strong cash flow to create value for shareholders and we have increased our annualized dividend by 25% to $1 per share.
Full year 2013 total share repurchases are now expected to be approximately $1 billion subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
Capital expenditures are still projected to be approximately $50 million.
We still expect approximately $100 million in depreciation and amortization expense.
Incremental compliance and regulatory expense is still projected to be in the $10 million to $15 million range.
Free cash flow is expected to be approximately $850 million.
We have modified certain components of 2013 guidance to reflect the company's current view of business conditions.
For the global MIS business revenue for the full year 2013 is still expected to increase in the high-single-digit percent range.
Both U.S.
and non-U.S.
MIS revenue are also now expected to increase in the high-single-digit percent range.
Corporate finance revenue is now projected to grow in the low-teens percent range.
Revenue from structured finance is now expected to decrease in the low-single-digit percent range while revenue from financial institutions is still expected to grow in the low-single-digit percent range.
Public project and infrastructure finance revenue is still expected to increase in the low-double-digit percent range.
For MA full year 2013 revenue is still expected to increase in the high-single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MA revenue is now expected to increase in the low-double-digit percent range.
Non-U.S.
revenue is expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Revenue from research data and analytics is still projected to grow in the high-single-digit percent range while revenue for enterprise risk solutions is still expected to grow in the low-double-digit percent range.
Professional services revenue is still expected to grow in the high-single-digit percent range.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session are Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody's Investor Service and Mark Almeida President of Moody's Analytics.
We'd be pleased to take any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Patrick O'Shaughnessy at Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So my first question -- can you talk just a little bit more provide some commentary around your capital return plan? So increasing your share repurchase from $0.5 billion to $1 billion bumping up your dividend return policy.
Can you just talk about what some of the -- just thinking underlying those moves was? Sure.
I'll make some general comments and then see if Linda has anything she would like to add.
It's -- it's really a recognition that we have an opportunity and sufficient financial flexibility to be able to return capital to shareholders on a more accelerated basis than we had anticipated earlier in the year.
So this is -- we think an opportunity for us to get cash back into the hands of shareholders and we think that's our obligation consistent with the need to maintain sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility for uncertainties in the future.
Yes it's Linda.
Ray is right.
We have a cash-rich balance sheet about $1.6 billion in cash on the balance sheet and our net debt is effectively 0.
We took a look at our dividend rate and with the recent increase in our stock price the dividend yield had been about 1.3%.
This brings it up to about 1.6% and our payout to about 25%.
So we feel that that's appropriate recognition of the progress that we've made.
And on share repurchase because our investors seem to prefer both methods of returning capital to shareholders we think that this is a prudent step for us to take and a good time for us to do it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right that's very helpful color.
And then a follow-up question for me.
So certainly we saw corporate issuance dry up a little bit in June and I think July has been pretty slow so far as well.
Can you talk about what sort of issuance backlog that you've been seeing and just how the different rate environment that we're facing today as oppose to let's say April and May how that's impacting corporate issuers? Sure.
This is going to take a minute to go through so let me talk to you about how we're going to do this.
We're going to first discuss investment grade then I'd like to talk a bit about high yield and then thirdly leveraged loans.
And for each of the categories I'd like to talk about what we're seeing in deals last week and this week the pipeline the fund flow and then certain market observations.
And as you acknowledged we did see a bit of what we're calling the June swoon.
But we would acknowledge that last week the deal issuance rate looks a good deal better.
Last week we saw $16 billion in issuance which was mostly driven by financials who have already reported second quarter earnings.
And it's important to note we try to make the same point every year.
We're still in a corporate blackout period for many issuers particularly the industrial issuers.
This week expectations are for another $15 billion of investment-grade issuance.
We have $9 billion of issuance year-to-date -- I'm sorry week-to-date.
And I would note that there are 6 investment-grade deals in the market today with the 10-year at about 2.57%.
On average over the last 5 years the 10-year has been about 2.73%.
So you can take whatever you'd like from that but we are below the 5-year average.
The pipeline for several banks indicates that the forward calendar is building and the pipeline was described by several of those banks as strong.
Issuance is likely to be robust in the near term as issuers emerge from blackout periods and there is note that there may be a potentially busier August than is usually expected.
Generally August is one of the slower months.
However banks are still forecasting a pullback in issuance from the record volumes in the first half.
Second half is looking at $250 billion to $350 billion versus the first half of $550 billion in issuance and this does include financials as well as industrials.
Now fund flows into high-yield bond funds have recently reversed.
Last week Lipper reported $1 billion of fund flows into investment grade.
That's the third week of returned inflow following the June swoon and the year-to-date total inflow is $38 billion.
Market observations in high grade include issuers getting comfortable with the slightly higher interest rate environment and from a historical perspective rates remain attractive.
And we do see that some issuers are looking at refinancing 2014 and '15 in the back half following the period of volatility that we've seen.
Also I would note M&amp;A dialogue is picking up but the focus for that is on later this year or 2014.
That concludes investment grade and now I'll move to high yield.
In high yield last week we saw $7 billion of issuance from 16 issuers.
It was the busiest week since May of this year.
Last week's deals -- excuse me this week's deals $3 billion week-to-date.
And the issuance pipeline is currently running 25% up versus 2012 year-to-date.
Again second half is expected to slow a bit $75 billion to $150 billion and in the second half versus $200 billion in the first half.
But 200 -- 2013 levels are at or slightly below the 2012 record amount.
Fund flows again have reversed in high yield.
Dramatic outflows in May and June have normalized and even turned positive last week.
Year-to-date still showing net outflows though of $12 billion.
Market observations are that yields remain at near all-time lows with high yield index yielding 6.3% versus the 5-year average of 9.04%.
And it's an attractive asset class for fixed income investors as rates rise given shorter duration less price volatility and low levels of default.
Now looking at leveraged loans.
Last week we saw 8 deals.
This week $900 million of issuance week-to-date.
The pipeline year-to-date volume of $350 billion is up 70% from 2012.
Second half expectation is $150 billion.
That implies also somewhat of a reduction in the pace of supply from first half $350 billion.
Fund flows last week in leveraged loans reported the 57th consecutive week of 100 of inflows at $1.7 billion.
That's the largest weekly inflow on record by the way.
And year-to-date inflows are at $30 billion.
That's more than 3x what we saw in 2012 where the inflow was $9 billion.
Market observations include that demand continues to be strong given the feature of protection against rising rates offered by flexible rate leveraged loan paper.
So Patrick sorry for the length of all that but hope it's pretty complete.
And I would just add -- I would just add a very brief comment to the comprehensive review that Linda has just offered.
As we saw rates moving out of Treasuries and spreads moving out in June they certainly have come back in somewhat.
Though they're not back to where they were in May but Treasuries and rates have come back in and spreads have come back in.
I think more than a question of the pipeline it was a question of uncertainty about where rates would stabilize.
And once that stability became more apparent in part because of further comments from the Fed I think there was more confidence in having those pipelines unlocked.
And so what I think we're going to be looking at for the rest of this year is not a concern about bond issuance volumes with rates where they are currently are but some level of market anxiety about the uncertainty of accommodative monetary policy how long and how accommodative.
And so in looking at our forecast we assume there is going to continue to be some level of market anxiety around that.
And probably as we've seen frequently over the past few years periods of good market activity and then periods of relative dormancy depending on among other things official comments.
And we'll go next to William Bird at Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Ray I was wondering if you could just comment.
I know there's been shorter duration issuance recently.
How does that impact your business? Well it's good from the standpoint that there is more turnover of refinancing.
The velocity of the refinancing increases with the shorter term securities.
And interestingly we had not seen a big jump in very long-dated issuance even earlier when rates were at their lowest point firms we're still -- I'd put it a little bit casually but they were taking the free money rather than the cheap money.
And so we have seen the term structure remain towards the short end.
And that's as I said good from a refinancing perspective.
Research Division</strong> And Ray bigger picture.
Can you talk about just what your point of view is on whether the structural tailwinds in your business can overcome some of the macro choppiness to enable positive growth? Yes.
I think we -- I think we can continue to see growth.
I think the business is well supported on the rating agency side from the disintermediation trends certainly that are going on in Europe but also in Asia Latin America and somewhat surprisingly at least to me in the U.S.
it continues apace.
And the Moody's Analytics business is really not impacted by the interest rate cycle the business cycle the way the rating agency business is.
So we expect we're going to be able to continue to get good growth out of MA.
Research Division</strong> And Ray your second half outlook implies kind of a flattish growth profile at MIS.
And Linda's comments sound like the pipeline is still pretty good.
I guess are you assuming just kind of more of the same or just from a macro level what's assumed in the second half in your outlook? I think what we're recognizing and looking at some consensus opinions in the market from economists and other institutions a greater than usual degree of uncertainty in terms of where rates might go how spreads might react to changes in again quantitative easing or expectations for interest rate increases.
If the market is concerned that accommodative monetary policy is going to be curtailed before we have self-sustaining momentum in terms of GDP growth that's not going to be good for issuers.
But if we do have a market view that we have achieved self-sustaining economic growth I think we're going to see good levels of issuance even if we do have curtailment of quantitative easing because there's going to be borrowing for merger and acquisitions and capital expenditure and share repurchase.
As we've talked about in other calls all these drivers traditional drivers of issuance that had been relatively dormant in recent years.
And Bill it's Linda.
Following up on what Ray said I think your observation is correct.
The pipelines look pretty good pretty strong.
But again we don't control when those pipelines move.
And I think what Ray is trying to indicate to you is we'll probably have some good weeks and we'll probably have some less good weeks and that's what results from market choppiness.
That's on the MIS side.
I think we probably should make the observation that for MA one part of that business the enterprise of our software business traditionally sees much stronger revenue growth in the fourth quarter and that seasonality is helpful to us.
We are thinking about though the strong numbers that the rating agency put up in the back half of last year and several of the analysts have observed that we do have tougher comps in the back half of the year which is something that we're thinking about.
On the other hand we're going to be back to talk to you at Investor Day which is 8 weeks from today.
So we'll see where we get to and we'll freshen up our observations at that time.
We'll go next to Manav Patnaik at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The -- just firstly on the guidance.
I mean clearly the big high level sort of guidance ranges were unchanged but at the same team you doubled the expectation of share repurchases.
So I just wanted to get a sense of what your thought process was in factoring in those increased share repurchases and why maybe the EPS range didn't narrow or increase? Is there something in terms of the number of shares you expect to issue that offset that impact? Just curious there.
Manav I think we talked about why we left guidance where it is.
On share repurchase we've added expectation of approximately another $500 million.
But that will be in the back half of the year.
And looking at that just looking at the weighted average counts and so on we'll probably see that the biggest accretive effect of that when we get into 2014.
So in other words we're back-end loaded here.
And we decided to leave guidance where it is.
And again we'll see how it works out.
But your observation is correct.
We will be taking out additional shares.
We expect to.
But again that will be occurring in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to focus on the comments you made on ERS.
Can you maybe just give us a quick update on some of the key events or points that occurred this quarter? I mean clearly the 17% growth in all organic was pretty -- was pretty impressive.
Yes let me ask Mark Almeida if he'd like to comment on that.
Yes Manav we did.
We had a very good quarter in ERS.
It was really -- and we've talked about this before.
It's a function of timing.
When we get the work done on our various projects that are in flight.
We had a number of projects that completed during the second quarter.
So we recognized a lot of revenue there.
But the business is strong driven by regulatory activity and regulatory requirements that are being placed on banks.
We're seeing a lot of strength particularly in the U.S.
relating to the Dodd-Frank stress testing rules as well as the Federal Reserve CCAR provisions.
So we're seeing some very good strength in the business from both a sales standpoint.
But as you observed good project completion resulting in more revenue recognition in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one final one just on the rating agency side.
Linda in the past you've talked about some of the number of new issuers to the market like the stats there.
Can you maybe give us 1 or 2 line just on how those trends are tracking thus far? Manav I don't have those handy.
Perhaps Ray can give us a little bit more color.
But they continue to be pretty good on what we've heard.
We're looking to get more of that information together for Investor Day but let me see if Ray has anything else to add.
No I'm just going to add and I will ask Michel Madelain if he would like to comment on this.
But I think the new mandates have been continuing at a relatively steady pace.
So no spikes in new mandates but it also continues to be a good pipeline for us.
And Michel if you have something to add please do.
No I think what you said it's really -- we continue to see strength in Europe and emerging markets and the pipeline has been very strong and so that trend has continued.
Yes I think Manav again one way to look at evidence of disintermediation is to look at that European CFG revenue growth number and that would be one way to try to measure what's going on there.
And we'll go next to Peter Appert of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> The margin performance was very impressive this quarter in the context of the revenue stream.
So I'm wondering Linda if this causes you to rethink the potential margin upside in the business over the next couple of years.
Peter I'm going to ask Ray to comment some more after I do.
But I think we're pretty happy with where we are on margin and I think we're going to continue to stick to the story we have that over the longer term we're kind of looking at low- to mid-40s and we're happy with the progress that we've made.
And I think we're pretty pleased with how the business has been performing on the margin line as you noted.
Ray? Just 2 quick reminders.
One is that the -- because of the over plan performance that we had last year and as a result the above plan incentive compensation we had last year we did have an ability to expand margin this year more aggressively based on resetting of incentive compensation back to target.
So we don't expect to see that kind of margin expansion going forward.
And the other question will be the relative growth rates of MIS and Moody's Analytics because the Moody's Analytics business is a lower margin business.
So we have to -- there is the uncertainty of the relative rates of growth of the 2 businesses in looking out over a number of years.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Ray can you give us an update on how you're seeing the legal environment? Currently you have -- there is a somewhat high-profile suit filed recently any further settlements or dismissals that you can share with us? No.
There really hasn't been a lot of activity.
We've had more than 50 cases filed ratings-related cases filed since 2007 and a little more than 3 dozen of those have been resolved most of them because they were dismissed or voluntarily withdrawn.
We did have a couple of new complaints this year and a couple of what are called summonses with notice which are -- you should think of them as placeholders for possibly filing a complaint in the future.
But those don't necessarily end up being actual cases.
But that's been about it.
Research Division</strong> How about in terms of legal expenses? Would it be running at a relatively constant level at this point? Peter it's Linda.
I'll talk a little bit about expenses as a whole but we're not going to go into legal expenses per se.
Probably worth noting that as Ray stated in the updated guidance we're expecting expenses to be in the mid-single digits for growth rate for all of 2013.
Second quarter we popped up a little bit to a 12% growth rate.
And that was about a $43 million increase.
We expected that someone would ask for some color on that.
So about 1/2 of that was compensation-related.
The impact of hiring increases annual compensation increases some incentive compensation accruals.
Another 25% of that was probably best viewed as professional service cost increases for IT and other things related to that.
We did note that we're now in compliance on both CRA3 and Dodd-Frank and we had spent some money to get that done.
The other 25% is basically other stuff.
So expenses as a whole I think it's pretty moderate in that we're expecting low-single-digit growth rates over the rest of the year.
And just to be sure we're absolutely clear so that folks can see how to model this.
Looking at the number that we have here for the second quarter it's $405 million.
We're still looking at about a $50-ish million ramp over the course of the year approximately more or less.
So if you want to think about how to model expenses as a whole that might help you out a little bit.
Research Division</strong> And Linda do you have the actual incentive comp accrual for the quarter? Yes I do.
It was $34.3 million Peter.
And I think we have said -- we're hoping to have that be a little bit flatter this year.
First quarter was $30.7 million and this is just the incentive comp.
This quarter $34.3 million.
I think we had guided folks to about $135 million for the rest of the year.
With a strong health warning there that if we do better than we expect in the back half of course incentive compensation would increase commensurately.
Research Division</strong> And one last thing just in terms of the structured finance market strength in the U.S.
weakness in Europe any commentary in terms of just tone of market and expectations that things might get better going into '14? Yes with respect to Europe I would characterize it as hopeful that things will get better in '14.
And I think that that securitization does have an important role to play potentially in Europe as they are looking towards an economic recovery and giving companies additional opportunities to access the capital markets whether it's capital raising or liquidity purposes.
I think the securitization can be part of a longer-term solution.
But right now there's -- there's just not a lot of demand and there are alternative funding sources.
As we've -- I think we mentioned in the previous quarter's call for example in the U.K.
the Funding for Lending program that they have in place.
So in the near term there are alternatives to the securitization market.
Longer term I would expect this is going to be part of a solution to the sluggish growth rates.
Whether that's in 2014 or not I don't know.
And we'll move next to Alex Kramm with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I think at this point just a few follow-ups.
Just wanted to first come back to the whole higher rate interest rate question that obviously has been asked a lot here recently.
But just hoping if you could give us a little bit more color in terms of what is coming out when you talk to corporates and bankers? I know it's a difficult question to answer but what should be the things that we should be looking for in terms of absolute level of rates or increases and pace of rate increases for people to really change their mind in terms of how they think about refinancing or just general issuance going forward.
And then related to that how are you -- yourself thinking about it right now in terms of looking at the budget maybe for next year and going forward? Sure Alex.
I'll take a shot at this and then I'll ask Ray if he has anything further to add.
None of us are fixed income capital market traders or desk participants.
So I think the information that we gave earlier as to what we're hearing is probably the best indication.
I think to sum it up the pipelines look good.
They look strong.
And I think the 10-year at approximately 2.56% 2.58% today because there will be 10-year sales later on this week that's below the 5-year average of 2.73%.
And we'll see how that plays out.
I think that's probably about the best we can do in terms of where we think things are and what will be moving.
High yield is of course very rate dependent.
As issuance -- as all-in cost come in below 6% we usually see the high-yield market run very strong and we have seen some indications that that may happen or it may not.
Leveraged loans as I had said earlier are running very strong both in terms of fund inflows and buyer attraction for that paper which is floating rate.
So with all of that I think your guess is as good as ours and I'll see if Ray wants to add anything else.
The only thing I would add is just to repeat the views of some economists including our own.
That for now they really don't think the Fed wants the 10-year Treasury yield to be much above the 2.5% mark.
And if that's correct that is still an attractive environment for issuance by historical measures.
Now obviously if spreads widen out that would be affected.
But right now they have been coming back in from where they went to in June.
So reason for cautious optimism there on the rate side.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate it.
It's a difficult question to ask.
But then on the second part of the question anything that you would say how you would respond or when you would think you need to respond or is it too early to tell at this juncture? If we're talking about a cyclical movement that has an impact on bond issuance candidly I don't think we would do a whole lot to respond.
Our business we have to monitor the debt that's outstanding.
We would expect that the debt is -- that additional debt is going to be issued in the future.
And so it's not a structural change in our business.
It's a cyclical change if it occurs.
And as I said before a rising rate environment that is accompanied by business confidence and economic activity is not worrisome.
What is worrisome is sort of what we saw in June where there was fear of rising rates and widening spreads because the rate environment was not -- or the anticipated rate environment was not aligned with a sense that we had self-sustaining economic recovery.
Alex we'll also put in a plug on Monday at The Wall Street Journal with some information based on data of ours in terms of broadening out of use of proceeds in terms of bond issuance.
You may want to take a look at that.
A little bit of a pickup in M&amp;A.
A little bit of pickup in capital expenditures.
And those are one of the things -- those are some of the things that we're looking for.
Also as Ray has commented on before the worst thing for us is a stagflation environment and inflation remains quite reasonably low at this point.
So it all boils down to the question of when these pipelines move and encouraged by seeing 6 deals in the market today 3 financials and 3 industrials.
And we'll see what happens.
But again we have 2 parts to this business and the Moody's Analytics business is performing pretty well.
Research Division</strong> Well then maybe as a segue I'll just go into Moody's Analytics business which is to say I think somebody asked about it already.
But just following-up on the ERS side for one you took the U.S.
guidance up.
And secondly you noted that you obviously had a very good strong quarter.
I think Linda last time I talked to you about this you were actually noting that you're starting to engage in or at least try to engage with like higher deals pitching higher -- larger deals.
Anything to talk about like where's that coming from or are you having success -- I mean is there a big change in this business whether this could actually have accelerating growth from here? Yes it's Mark.
I would say that we are having success there.
We are -- certainly in the U.S.
as I said earlier business is picking up largely in response to work that we're doing for banks related to the various stress testing requirements that are being imposed on them.
That's been a very nice driver of growth in this market and that's why you're seeing some healthier results here.
In terms of the deal size we -- the average size of deals probably remained about where it was.
We do rather routinely win some very large scale transactions.
But I don't know that at least thus far it has not substantially moved the needle if you look at the business overall.
But certainly I think the opportunity is there again related to the various regulatory requirements that are being imposed.
That's presenting a lot of opportunity for us here in the U.S.
as well as overseas.
So I think that we're very optimistic about the business.
We have -- we've been saying for some time that we think that this is a business that should grow at a low-double digit to mid-teens kind of rate over the long run.
And certainly what we're seeing in the environment what we're hearing from customers suggests to us that that's going to be very achievable.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just last one for me.
Obviously it seems like there's been a lot more discussion around restructuring the agencies like Fannie and Freddie in terms of bill proposals and things like that.
So from what you've seen so far any indication of how that would change the business for you? Are there other things that you would like to see? And maybe in general how involved you are in those discussions in terms of lobbying and things like that.
And any color would be great.
Well obviously we're aware of bills that have been introduced in Congress including the Corker-Warner bill.
I think it's still going to be a long process.
It's not something that we are going to involve ourselves in from a lobbying perspective.
Our job is to understand what the policy decisions are and to make whatever credit judgments that are appropriate based on those policy decisions but not to push for one outcome or another.
That being said if there is a larger private label market for mortgage-backed securities that's going to be beneficial.
So we will watch that with interest but without lobbying in any particular direction.
And Alex it's Linda.
There were 2 interesting things that came through the news overnight.
And Ray may be able to speak to these with -- or Michel with greater detail than I can.
One was a proposal that perhaps they might be looking to be some relief on one of the 17g-5 related rules of holding 5% on balance sheet of structured deals.
Secondly was an announcement that one -- one of the GSEs had done a securitization of its own -- part of its own balance sheet and maybe Ray can talk a little or Michel can talk a little bit more about those.
But we are seeing some news flow in those areas.
Yes I don't have a lot actually to add to what Linda raised other than that the observation that I think the experimentation if you will with some new securities and financial innovation is probably a positive.
We've been through a period where there hasn't been a lot of financial innovation and testing with some of these new securities types is -- I think is supportive of longer-term growth in some key markets like housing.
So that's -- that's really all I -- I'm -- other than what I've seen in the papers I don't have any additional insight I can offer on those.
We'll move next to Craig Huber at Huber Research Partners.
Linda can you hear me? Yes we can.
Yes we can Craig.
Can you break down for us on a percent basis or in dollars your 4 main categories within ratings break out high yield versus bank loans investment grade et cetera and do it for all 4 areas please? That's my first question.
Sure Craig.
CFJ -- CFG excuse me and we're comparing second quarter 2013 over second quarter 2012 investment grade up nicely.
Last year about $42 million this year about $60 million.
That's up -- it's up 43%.
It represents 23% of the total CFG revenues which is about $263 million.
Spec grade up to $57 million which is 22% of the CFG total.
And that's up 80% over last year's 2012.
Again if one is looking for indication of where -- what does disintermediation look like that's it.
Bank loans up to $53 million 20% of total CFG.
And there we're up 51% over last year.
Other is 35% of CFG.
It's about $93 million.
Going on to look at some of the other areas structured Craig total of $97 million of revenue for second quarter.
First-line is ABS about $25.5 million.
That's about 26% of the total.
Now that is actually down from last year's $29.1 million.
RMBS $18.7 million also down a little bit from last year.
Commercial real estate $30.7 million a big increase from last year's $18.2 million.
And derivatives at $22.3 million about flat to last year's $21.5 million.
That makes up 23% of the total SFG line of $97.2 million.
Going on to third category FIG total of $84.5 million.
Banking is $57.5 million.
It's 68% of the total the lion's share.
Insurance $23.3 million.
It's 28% and managed investments of $3.6 million is 4% of the FIG line.
Lastly public project and infrastructure.
PFG and sovereigns $43.6 million about flat from last year and 47% of the revenue line there.
Munis at 43-point -- excuse me $4.3 million again $4.3 million about 5% of the total for PPIF.
And project and infrastructure at $44.8 million up nicely 39% from last year.
And that makes up 48% or about 1/2 of total PPIF.
Do you want to do MA as well Craig? I think we all have that.
Okay.
Good.
All right.
I'm okay there.
My next question if I could please.
Can you -- as you think back over the last year Ray or Linda within your corporate finance segment how much of your revenues there on the transaction side have been derived from refinancings versus growth capital? And how do those percentages vary versus say the prior 10 years on average? I'm going to have to give you some approximate numbers but a little more than 1/2 of the activity I think this year has been refinancing with M&amp;A and share repurchase ticking up a little bit.
Really not on the CapEx side though.
So it's still dominated in terms of refinancing.
But we are seeing borrowing for other purposes that is a bit stronger than what we've seen the last couple of years.
Okay.
So it's not significantly higher than say 50% coming from refinancing to the best of your estimate? No.
I think that's correct.
It's above 50% but I don't think it's significantly above at this point.
Okay.
And then if we could just switch to legal costs.
What is your best sense of when you think your legal costs on a year-over-year basis will start dropping? Craig it's Linda.
We're still not going to talk about legal costs.
But we did talk openly about our expense outlook so.
Craig the only thing I can really tell you is there is a lot of uncertainty around this because we obviously are working to have cases dismissed as early as possible.
Sometimes we succeed.
Sometimes they move on to the discovery process which becomes more expensive.
So it really depends on what our success rate looks like with early dismissals and -- I just -- I can't give you a good forecast on that.
Another question please.
As you look out over say the next 3 years let's say here in U.S.
investment grade bank loans and high yield can you just talk about how much has to actually get refinanced and that's still outstanding and how that maybe looks versus where we're at today for this calendar year? Well for 2014 and 2015 a lot of what would have matured has been refinanced.
And that's why we talk about these other drivers being important to the corporate finance growth story here in the U.S.
going forward.
It's a different situation as we look at corporates elsewhere around the world.
But the U.S.
market is an important market for us.
So it is worth focusing on.
That being said there remains a lot of refinancing that has to occur in 2016 2017.
Some comments that we made earlier in the call about the fact that borrowing over the last few years has been a relatively short-term nature and that borrowing is going to come around for refinancing again.
So -- and the investment-grade market tends to refinance at a much steadier rate than the high-yield market.
So that's -- we would expect to see refinancing over the next couple of years coming out of investment-grade market in similar ways to what we've seen in previous years.
And Craig you can take a look for those wall of refinancing charts in our updated analyst presentation.
And we'll show that again take another look at that again when we do Investor Day in 2 months.
One final question if I could.
Your guidance for your 4 broad areas within your ratings business as those guidance numbers the infrastructure finance corporate finance et cetera what are you most concerned about for the back half of the year? I mean what -- in terms of which ones you think have more potential upside than the others? And vice versa where you're most concerned about on your guidance? I'm not concerned about any particular business line.
I'm really more focused as I think probably everybody is at this point on the macroeconomic situation.
Whether -- how the market will respond to curtailment of quantitative easing if and when it begins.
Predictions that it might happen in September.
Predictions that it might happen at the end of the year and market reaction to that.
And I think there is going to be appropriately a lot of attention coming from policymakers to make sure that the market reaction is not unfavorable and that we don't have a tightening of financial conditions in a way that would turn our recovery back in the wrong direction.
So it's not individual business lines.
It's more the macro situation at this point Craig.
We'll go next to Doug Arthur at Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Ray just one question.
I was -- the corporate finance internationally accelerated in the quarter.
I think it was up sort of 30-ish in Q1 and up 52% in Q2.
And you talked about disintermediation or Linda did.
How does the comp look going forward there? And you think that disintermediation in the bond market in Europe is really accelerating at this point? I think it's going to continue.
We're going to continue to see new mandates.
I don't anticipate it accelerating.
It's been steady and it's been strong.
And that's obviously good news from a bond market volume perspective.
Many of the credits are in the high-yield sector.
I expect that that will continue since the investment-grade credits had largely been in the bond market for a number of years already.
And for some different reasons I would expect to see a similar result as we look at the emerging market economies in Asia Latin America for example where growth is outstripping banking system capacity.
And -- and that's leading to disintermediation as well.
I don't know Linda or Michel if you have anything else you'd like to add to that? I mean the only thing is that one of the underlying factor in Europe is clearly the condition of the banking system and their inability to basically meet the demands of a number of those issuers.
And that's actually true for the high-yield market basically.
So there is an element of -- there's a cyclical element as well as a structural element at play here.
And Doug pretty frequent stories in the press that particularly in the periphery lesser credits have a difficult time with bank financing and are looking to go to the spec grade market.
So to follow-up on what Michel and Ray have said we think that trend will continue.
We'll move next to Edward Atorino of Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just about everything in the world has been asked.
You've got a lot of shares you could buy take out I think 14 million to 15 million shares.
I mean are you going to have offsetting issuance or is that really a potential over the next couple of years? Ed it's Linda.
We tend to have issuance more focused in the front half of the year and we try to keep our equity utilization below 2% for the employees here.
So we're looking as we said to overall have a reduction in the outstanding shares.
And thus far we've been able to do that.
And I'll ask Ray if he wants to comment any further on that.
No just -- just I think Linda's comments stand on their own.
The original guidance that we had given for approximately $500 million in share repurchase was largely to offset issuance.
But that would not be the case with the -- with additional repurchases.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean can you conceivably buy 14 million shares of stock? Well conceivably yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
We'll have to see where the price...
LLC Research Division</strong> I don't want to be a wise guy and say when? No we're not going to say that.
LLC Research Division</strong> I got it.
Okay.
We're working on it Ed.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
McDaniel for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
Just before we end the call I do want to make sure everyone knows that Moody's will host its Investor Day on Tuesday September 24 here in New York.
Attendance is by invitation only and the event will be webcast.
And further details will be provided on our Investor Relations website at ir.moodys.com.
So thank you all for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again in September and October.
And this concludes Moody's second quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 4 p.m.
Eastern time on Moody's website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's third quarter results for 2013.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
This morning Moody's released its results for the third quarter of 2013.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody's Corporation will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody's Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the act I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on this call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thanks Salli.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's third quarter 2013 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
Although we have been providing regulatory updates each quarter at this time we have no material changes to report.
Therefore after Linda's comments I will finish by noting our outlook for the remainder of 2013.
After our prepared remarks we will be happy to respond to your questions.
Third quarter revenue of $706 million increased 2% over the third quarter of 2012.
We're pleased to have achieved growth despite volatile market conditions and challenging comparisons to the prior year period which at the time was a record quarter.
Operating expenses for the third quarter were $414 million a 1% decline from the third quarter of 2012.
Operating income for the third quarter was $292 million an 8% increase from the prior year period.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $315 million up 7% from the same period last year.
Diluted earnings per share of $0.83 increased 2% from the third quarter of 2012 GAAP EPS of $0.81 and 11% from non-GAAP EPS of $0.75 in the prior year period which excludes the $0.06 per share legacy tax benefit.
As we're approaching the end of the year we have refined our 2013 EPS guidance to $3.51 to $3.57.
Turning to year-to-date performance.
Revenue for the first 9 months of 2013 was $2.2 billion an 11% increase from the first 9 months of 2012.
Revenue at Moody's Investors Service was $1.5 billion for the first 9 months of 2013 an increase of 12% from a year ago.
Moody's Analytics revenue of $657 million was 8% higher than the prior year period.
Operating expenses for the first 9 months of 2013 were $1.3 billion up 10% from 2012.
Operating income of $923 million increased 13% from $817 million in 2012.
Adjusted operating income was $993 million a 12% increase from the prior year period.
Operating expenses operating margin and adjusted operating margin for the first 9 months all include our first quarter litigation settlement charge.
Diluted earnings per share of $2.66 for the first 9 months of 2013 which includes the litigation settlement charge of $0.14 increased 14% from $2.34 in the first 9 months of 2012.
Excluding the litigation settlement charge in the first quarter of 2013 and the legacy tax benefit in the third quarter of 2012 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.80 for the first 9 months of 2013 grew 23% from $2.28 for the same period in 2012.
I'll now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the quarter increased 2% to $706 million.
Foreign currency translation for the quarter was negligible.
U.S.
third quarter revenue increased 3% to $391 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 1% to $315 million and represented 45% of Moody's total revenue for the quarter.
Relationship revenue grew 9% to $376 million and represented 53% of total revenue up from 50% in the prior year period.
Looking now at each of our businesses starting with Moody's Investors Service.
Total MIS revenue for the quarter was $478 million up 1% from the prior year period.
U.S.
MIS revenue of $290 million was flat to the prior year period.
MIS revenue generated outside the U.S.
of $188 million increased 2% and represented 39% of total ratings revenue.
The impact of foreign currency translation on MIS revenues was negligible.
Moving now to the lines of business for MIS.
First global corporate finance revenue in the third quarter increased 6% from the year-ago period to $233 million.
In the U.S.
increased revenue from bank loan ratings and monitoring fees was offset by declines in revenue from investment grade and high yield bond ratings resulting in flat revenue year-over-year.
Non-U.S.
revenue was up 18% driven by high yield and bank loan ratings in EMEA offset by declines in investment grade.
Second global structured finance revenue for the third quarter was $84 million a decline of 10% from the prior year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 3% year-over-year primarily due to commercial real estate issuance.
Non-U.S.
structured finance revenue was down 27% against the prior year period primarily reflecting weaker issuance volumes across the regions outside the U.S.
Third global financial institutions revenue of $79 million decreased 5% from the same quarter of 2012.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue declined 3% and 6% respectively primarily from the decline in activity by funds and smaller banking institutions.
Fourth global public project and infrastructure finance revenue rose 7% year-over-year to $83 million.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue were up 1% and 20% respectively from the prior year period primarily due to gains in infrastructure finance globally largely offset in the U.S.
by the impact of lower public finance issuance.
Turning now to Moody's Analytics.
Global revenue for Moody's Analytics of $227 million was up 6% from the third quarter of 2012.
100% of the revenue growth in MA was organic as we've not made any recent acquisitions.
U.S.
revenue grew by 14% year-over-year to $101 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $127 million was flat and represented 56% of total Moody's Analytics revenue.
The impact of foreign currency translation on MA revenue was negligible.
And moving now to the lines of business for MA.
First global research data and analytics or RD&amp;A revenue of $134 million increased 8% from the prior year period and represented 59% of total MA revenue.
Our customer retention rate remains strong in the mid-90s percent range and we continue to see solid demand for MA's research offerings.
RD&amp;A U.S.
revenue was up 10% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 5% as compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Second global enterprise risk solutions or ERS revenue of $64 million grew 1% against a strong prior year period.
ERS revenue was up 26% in the U.S.
while non-U.S.
revenue declined 9% against the same period last year.
As we have previously noted ERS revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility due to the variable nature of project timing and completion.
It is important to note that on a trailing 12-month basis revenue and sales for ERS have increased 15% and 20% respectively.
Third global professional services revenue grew 10% to $29 million reflecting solid growth in revenue from Copal Partners partially offset by softness in the training and certification business.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue increased 21% and 6% respectively year-over-year.
Finally looking at MA's revenue on a subscription basis which includes RD&amp;A plus subscription products within ERS was up 8% for the third quarter of 2013.
Turning now to expenses for the corporation.
Moody's third quarter expenses declined 1% to $414 million compared to the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to lower incentive compensation partially offset by increased headcount and higher technology expenses.
The translation of foreign currency had a negative impact of 1% on operating expenses for the quarter.
Moody's reported operating margin for the quarter was 41.3% up from 39.2% in the third quarter of 2012 an expansion of 210 basis points.
Adjusted operating margin was 44.6% for the quarter up from 42.7% for the same period last year an expansion of 190 basis points over last year.
Moody's effective tax rate for the quarter was 29.1% compared with 29.5% for the prior year period.
Next I'll provide an update on capital allocation.
During the third quarter of 2013 Moody's repurchased 6.2 million shares at a total cost of $397 million and issued 855 000 shares under employee stock-based compensation plan.
Outstanding shares as of September 30 2013 totaled 215.1 million down 3% from the year earlier.
At the end of the third quarter Moody's had $930 million of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program.
Year-to-date Moody's has repurchased 12.2 million shares at a total cost of $748 million or an average price per share of $61.37.
As of September 30 Moody's had $2.1 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Cash cash equivalents and short-term investments as of September 30 2013 were $2 billion an increase of $504 million from a year earlier primarily reflecting Moody's August 2013 bond offering of $500 million of senior unsecured notes from which we now incur approximately $6 million of incremental interest expense per quarter.
Cash holdings outside of -- maintained outside of the U.S.
at the end of the third quarter were $1.2 billion or approximately 58% of total cash holdings.
Free cash flow of $623 million for the first 9 months of 2013 increased $162 million or 35% from a year ago.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thank you Linda.
I'll now discuss our full year guidance for 2013 and then make some closing remarks.
Moody's outlook for 2013 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability business investment spending mergers and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There's an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody's results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates.
As I mentioned earlier we are -- as we're approaching the end of the year we have refined our 2013 EPS guidance to a range of $3.51 to $3.57.
For Moody's overall the company still expects full year 2013 revenue to grow in the high-single-digit percent range.
Full year 2013 operating expenses are still projected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Full year 2013 operating margin is still projected to be 41% to 42% and adjusted operating margin for the year is still expected to be 44% to 45%.
Guidance ranges for operating expenses operating margin and adjusted operating margin all include the first quarter 2013 litigation settlement charge.
The effective tax rate is now expected to be approximately 31%.
Full year 2013 total share repurchases are still expected to be approximately $1 billion subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
Capital expenditures are still projected to be approximately $50 million.
We still expect approximately $100 million in depreciation and amortization expense.
Incremental compliance and regulatory expense is now expected to be $5 million to $10 million.
Free cash flow is still expected to be approximately $850 million.
We have modified certain components of 2013 guidance to reflect the company's current view of business conditions.
For the global MIS business revenue for full year 2013 is still expected to increase in the high-single-digit percent range.
U.S.
MIS revenue is still expected to increase in the high-single-digit percent range while non-U.S.
MIS revenue is now expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Corporate finance revenue is now projected to grow in the mid-teens percent range.
Revenue from structured finance is still expected to decrease in the low-single-digit percent range while revenue from financial institutions is still expected to grow in the low-single-digit percent range.
Public project and infrastructure finance revenue is now expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
For MA full year 2013 revenue is still expected to increase in the high-single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MA revenue is still expected to increase in the low-double-digit percent range.
Non-U.S.
revenue is still expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Revenue from research data and analytics is still projected to grow in the high-single-digit percent range while revenue for enterprise risk solutions is now also expected to grow in the high-single-digit percent range.
Professional services revenue is now expected to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
In closing I would like to point out a few additional positive developments at Moody's.
Moody's Investors Service was once again voted the Best Credit-Rating Agency in a 2013 poll of U.S.
fixed income investors conducted by the well-known publisher Institutional Investor.
MIS was also was also named Asia's Most Influential Rating Agency in a similar poll conducted by the publisher FinanceAsia.
Additionally Moody's Analytics ranked first in economic capital calculation management and second in regulatory capital calculation management in the 2013 Asia Risk Technology awards.
I appreciate the market's recognition of our efforts and I applaud the accomplishments of both the MIS and MA businesses.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Joining us for the question-and-answer session are Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody's Investor Service; and Mark Almeida President of Moody's Analytics.
We'd be pleased to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Alex Kramm with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe starting with the outlook a little bit here.
I mean obviously you have pretty tight guidance but that obviously gives us a little bit to work with here.
But talk a little bit more of what's going on in the ratings business.
I mean we had a very slow October start.
We had like obviously some debt ceiling issues and government shutdown.
So maybe you can talk a little bit about what you're hearing when you talk to desks.
Is there pent-up demand that's coming back? Obviously the 10-year has moved a lot.
So maybe a little bit more than you usually discuss given what's been going on in October.
Sure.
I'll offer some introductory comments and then my colleagues may wish to add some color.
As you described we had a period in early October where there was pretty significant disruption associated with the debt ceiling and budget negotiations that were going on in Washington.
So we did not see a lot of activity here in the U.S.
That has more recently shifted.
We have seen strong bond issuance and good pipelines building.
Investment-grade issuance here in the U.S.
in particular has been strong.
I'd note that in Europe in the third quarter and into the fourth the bank loan market and high yield markets were strong.
And so the -- some of the disruption that we saw in the U.S.
has not had a significant impact on the European side.
That being said some of the issues that we've seen in structured finance in Europe in terms of very low volumes continue.
And we don't really expect a big jump in that in the fourth quarter.
Let me see if Linda has any other comment she'd like to add to this.
Yes Alex.
First looking at investment-grade issuance.
A lot of the points that you made were right on.
This week we heard issuance expected at $25 billion.
And for Q4 projections are around $175 billion but they seem to be moving upward a bit.
As you said the 10-year has been through 2.5%.
Today it's bouncing around that level.
So it's looking like the full year projections for investment grade will be about flat to 2012 to possibly up 5%.
There is a piece in The Wall Street Journal today talking about low rates bring bond bonanza.
So we'll see about that.
The state of the market is good.
The pipelines are good.
Investors and issuers I'm told are relatively calm.
And to the recent unexpected drop in rates provided issuers with a good opportunistic window.
Headwinds and tailwinds we continue to deal with the issue of the debt ceiling as you had mentioned which has been pushed out.
But that also results in there being less clarity on what the Fed will do regarding tapering.
We spoke to a lot of sources both in the firm and outside the firm.
It looks like the median view right now is that tapering won't begin until March of next year although there is some dispersion around when that will happen.
Tailwinds include the rally in rates and a lot of discussions right now on opportunistic refinancings and some pickups in the M&amp;A rate.
So again pipeline looks pretty good.
For high yield we're still seeing high yield through 6% below 6% which is good.
October projections of $25 billion.
Quarter projections of $60 billion.
And looks like last year will be up slightly -- this year will be up slightly from last year which was about $350 billion in issuance.
Market fundamentals are described as strong and expectation is that rates will be lower for longer than expected.
Leveraged loans are really the star of the show.
For October $20 billion to date.
October projection of $30 billion and quarterly projection of $70 billion.
What's really interesting is the full year projection is $600 billion for leveraged loans which is fully twice 200% of what it was last year.
The market's been strong all year.
And it looks like things are continuing on that front.
So all in all pretty good pipeline rates breaking unexpectedly lower and we'll have to see what happens from here.
And I'll ask if anyone else had any further comments on that.
I think that's it.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's pretty thorough.
But you just mentioned in terms of the uncertainty being out there when I think about your business in particular from the margin perspective Linda maybe you can talk a little bit more about where we are in terms of what you've accrued for the year? How that's been running relative to expectations? I think we've had prior years where the fourth quarter has been really strong and then that certainly has been impacting comps.
So where are we right now? And like kind of what's the environment? A maybe like the up a couple of percent down a couple of percent and how that would be impacting the margin if you know what I'm trying to get at.
Yes I do.
You've got many questions in there.
So let me try to -- I think I just want to start it out with incentive compensation first.
And good to note that yes the margin has expanded 210 basis points third quarter this year over last year which is we think pretty phenomenal progress.
I think your point is right Alex.
Much of this is coming from the difference in incentive compensation.
2012 was a very strong year and the third quarter as Ray explained was a record quarter at that time.
For the third quarter of last year we had to put up about $130 million of incentive compensation and profit-sharing by that point.
This year unfortunately we have no profit-sharing to date and we've put up about $100 million in incentive compensation for this year.
So that number is down by 22%.
At the pace at which we're running and given the expectations we've just outlined it does not appear that we will have profit-sharing for this year.
And last year that was about $12 million.
So we have previously guided that incentive compensation should be about flattish over the course of this year.
We had guided to around $35 million a quarter and we still think that makes sense.
So we are seeing the difference in incentive compensation and profit-sharing really driving this and that is a considerable difference versus last year.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Just if I can squeeze in one last one a very brief one.
On the fixed side that surprised me a little bit.
And I think you spoke to it a little bit from the funds and I think something in Europe.
But we usually look at this as a very stable kind of recurring business so any shift there? Was this kind of like an unusual occurrence this quarter? Or how should we be thinking about that business in particular? That's it for me.
Now the banking was soft compared to the third quarter of last year but it was not because of a shift this year.
It was rather that last year we had an usual amount of activity from smaller regional banks especially in Europe following some supportive comments that had come out of the ECB in July of last year.
So there was more transaction revenue in Q3 of 2012 than we would normally associate with the FIG business.
We'll move next to William Bird [ph] with FBR.
Ray I was wondering if you could talk about just how you think about putting cash to work for greater buybacks.
And then Linda you touched on ERS lumpiness.
Were the factors that depressed growth were those temporary factors? Well with respect to use of cash the first priority is investment back into what we believe will be profitable opportunities whether it's organically in the existing businesses or through acquisitions that we think are strategically aligned with the direction of the business.
As you know we are disciplined about M&amp;A activity.
And so we have periods where we are not active.
We have not acquired anything in over 7 quarters now.
So that allows us to return capital to shareholders.
We have guided to $1 billion in share repurchase for this year.
We believe that we are on target to do that.
And we have also increased our dividend.
And we intend to maintain that balance as I think Linda has discussed before.
Yes Bill.
As we said on the call 12.2 million shares bought in so far this year at an average price of $61.37.
We're pretty happy about that and we will continue on our pace here.
Regarding ERS and I'll invite Mark Almeida to comment afterward.
I think the comparison might have been viewed as light because last year's third quarter was unusually strong for ERS.
And again we say it on every call this is a lumpy business.
We really mean that.
We have variability from quarter to quarter.
I did note and I'm sure Mark may point to it again that the trailing 12-month numbers are in fact are very strong.
And so I think that pretty much sets it out but I'm sure Mark may have some more color.
Yes that's exactly right Linda.
The whole issue here is one of the timing of project completion and associated revenue recognition.
We have pretty good visibility into what projects are coming toward completion and will trigger revenue recognition events.
And as she said there's a lot of lumpiness associated with that.
But you're quite right sales growth is very strong.
Trailing 12-month sales are up 20% running well ahead of revenue growth.
So I think we're setting ourselves up for very healthy revenue growth in ERS over the longer term but we are going to have this kind of variability over shorter periods.
We'll move next to Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Ray you guys have grown -- the MIS business has grown considerably faster than some of your competitors for the last couple of years.
And I'm just noticing in the current quarter you're growing a little bit slower.
Anything we should read into that from a market share perspective? Well I guess the first thing I would direct you to rather than the year-on-year is the sequential second quarter to third quarter.
And there you see that for the ratings businesses the move in revenue between Moody's and our principal competitor is identical.
So really what we're looking at is the fact that we had a very strong Q3 of 2012 and we were working off of a number in 2012 that had produced higher growth than our competitors.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Second you talked at the Investor Day very confidently about the prospect for roughly 10% long-term growth.
The comp in '14 obviously is pretty challenging.
So do you have any preliminary thoughts on how we should think about how '14 might play out? No.
I think we're going to wait and talk about 2014 later in the year.
We obviously are paying attention to the macroeconomic conditions looking for self-sustaining growth here in the U.S.
looking at developments in Washington and whether longer-term solutions can be put in place so that we don't have to revisit what we were looking at in early October every 3 months for 2014.
And I would hope and expect to be able to comment on that more definitively as we get to the new year.
Research Division</strong> That might imply though that the -- well obviously the comp is tougher in the first half of the year and the political stuff will be an overhang in the first half.
So I guess the implication might be that first half a little more challenging than second half? Well it -- well the comps are challenging -- will be challenging in the first half of 2014.
But again there are a lot of moving parts.
We've seen some more positive news coming out of Europe more recently.
The movement in rates in the U.S.
has been favorable and the discussion about when the taper begins has been pushed out by economists and commentators.
So again I think it would be premature for me to try and make predictions on this and provide a 2014 outlook but that's what we have our eyes on.
Research Division</strong> Sure great.
And then last thing the -- anything new you can talk about in terms of the legal environment? No.
There have not been a lot of developments in the litigation environment.
The cases that we are still dealing with none of those are set for trial and we are continuing the process of seeking dismissals.
And we will update you of course when there is any news.
We'll go next to Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Linda just a clarification.
Did you say that based on the sources you cited on the outlook for issuance in the fourth quarter you were looking for $175 billion of investment grade and then that would be flattish? Is that what you said? I did say $175 billion.
I don't have '12 in front of me.
I think that that may actually be a little bit lower than last year but I did say that -- the comments on that number had sort of been moving a little bit more to the upside.
So I think probably everybody should recheck this next week when companies come out of blackout and look up and see that the 10-year is still in a very attractive place around 2.5%.
Research Division</strong> Yes no doubt.
Okay.
And then Ray you touched on the sequential drop in the ratings Q3 over Q2.
Now in most years not every year you have a fairly strong sequential pickup in the fourth quarter which I assume is somewhat tied to kind of the year end balance sheet activity at companies particularly in the structured market.
Do you sense that normal seasonality will occur again notwithstanding tough comps or not? Or is the seasonality theory wrong? Well I don't think it's wrong but we have seen some conditions that caused the seasonal patterns that we might naturally expect to see to not show up in some recent quarters.
Now the third quarter did behave more like we would expect seasonally.
Whereas last year our third quarter was actually our second strongest quarter and that is quite unusual.
The -- what I think we're anticipating for the fourth quarter though is some offsetting conditions.
We have rates back down.
That's a positive.
We see good pipelines in the corporate area.
That's obviously a positive.
On the other hand with rates having been low throughout this year some issuers that might have normally issued in the fourth quarter are going to have pulled their issuance forward into the earlier quarters this year.
So we as you can tell from our guidance we are not expecting a big increase in revenues for the remainder of the year on a year-on-year comparison basis.
But things don't look bad either.
So it's -- the commentary is a set of offsetting conditions.
We'll move next to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Let me -- I want to ask you 2 questions on -- just on the cost side.
I mean clearly on the -- in MIS at least in the expense side you guys seem to have done a pretty good job of controlling that.
I was wondering if there's anything specific this quarter maybe why it was down nicely year-over-year.
And looking forward how should we think about that run rate? Sure Manav it's Linda.
I think I covered the main driver on what was going on with cost.
In fact incentive compensation and profit-sharing being lower and nonexistent respectively was very helpful to the expense rate this year.
Again we base our bonus programs off of the midpoint of our outlook.
And if we're not doing great the bonuses fund at a lower level.
And that's what we're seeing right now.
We did have a bit of an offset based on new hires that we've had over the past year and a little bit of merit increase in salaries.
But all told we were very happy with the expense control.
Now last year because of the strong pop-up in incentive compensation which was $60 million in the fourth quarter that would probably look a little bit heavy for this year given that I said that we're thinking we're going to run a bit more evenly quarter-over-quarter on bonuses more toward $35 million.
But it remains to be seen.
Again if things break to the upside the number could be a little bit heavier.
So hopefully that will help you.
But expenses look like they're still going to be well under control for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> So if you were to take out sort of the incentive comp the variable component of that over the long term how should we think about just how the expense moves either with issuance activity or without it? Let me try to answer the question in a different way.
We had said back in the first quarter call that we would have a $50 million expense ramp over the course of the year and we think that's about right.
We started at 395 in the first quarter and it will be somewhere around that $50 million for the year.
Expenses generally do tend to trend up over the course of the year excluding the compensation line Manav.
But again the comp line will not be -- we don't believe at this moment looking like it did in last year's fourth quarter.
So I think that's about as much as we need to spell out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just the reason for the change in the compliance -- incremental compliance expense is that just pushing things out in '14 or it just came in lighter than expected? It came in a bit lighter than expected.
We still will have I believe some incremental compliance cost in 2014.
But as you can see the incremental growth is trending down as we expected it would.
And I think that's good news for the longer run.
We'll move next to Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask for an update on the structured products area.
You had said at the Investor Day I believe you thought '14 would kind of be a bottom for that market but -- and also obviously sounds like Q4 -- or Q3 was a tough quarter particularly in Europe there.
I know you probably knew most of those results at the Investor Day.
But I guess can you contrast those to kind of what you saw in Q3 and why you think it's still going to bottom kind of going pretty soon here? Let me ask Michel to comment on this if he will in particular on what they're seeing in Europe.
Yes I think we clearly have a divide between the U.S.
and Europe here.
We're seeing actually improving conditions in the U.S.
both in terms of volumes and market position.
Europe is a different story.
We have a sharp contraction of volume across-the-board.
And we don't expect that to resume next quarter.
And as we said at Investor Day I think next year is going to be another year a challenging year for that market.
And the reason is really around -- it's linked to the monetary conditions that prevail and the overall economic environment in Europe and the lack of effectiveness of sort of finance products there.
Both are issues for investors.
So that's here to stay through '14.
And yes I'll just add that policymakers in Europe have started to offer more positive commentary about restarting the securitization market.
But at the same time they are providing significant liquidity to the banking system.
And so for the near term we believe that that liquidity provision and the availability of inexpensive capital is going to keep the longer-term market from growing quickly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just on the bank loans and I mean it's obviously a strong area for you as well as S&amp;P right now.
What -- I guess can you talk about how much of that's a structural shift and how much you still see room for a structural shift in terms of more deeply penetrating that such that you can continue to see kind of above average growth from that product area? Yes I think it's both structural and cyclical.
The structural component is that the rated bank loan market is associated with banks wanting to have the ability to transfer loans off their balance sheet.
And as they deleverage that remains a priority.
The cyclical component would be I think more appetite from the investor community for floating rate paper in anticipation of a rising rate environment.
The good thing here assuming that we don't have any shocks in terms of large unexpected movements in interest rates is that the bank loan market and the speculative grade bond market somewhat offset each other.
Now we happen to be in a period of good activity for both.
But if we see more appetite or better financing conditions for spec grade companies in the bond market I would expect they would shift out of their banking relationships for additional capital raising.
Research Division</strong> I guess just one follow-up.
I mean can you -- do you have any rough sense of how much you would attribute to cyclical versus the more structural growth for the bank loan area? No.
I mean I don't have educated answer for you on that.
So it would be just my speculation and I'd rather not fall for that.
We'll move next to Craig Huber with Huber Research.
Just to be clear your incentive compensation pure incentive comp this quarter Linda what was it? I think you said it was $59 million to $60 million a year ago? Yes the pure incentive compensation for third quarter of 2013 was $35 million.
And last year it topped $60 million.
Profit-sharing is carried in a separate line.
And this year we didn't have any.
We have not had any profit-sharing year-to-date.
And last year profit-sharing was about $8 million Craig.
Okay.
And then like I had said [ph] people would like to ask you Linda can you break out the revenues a little bit finer here for your 4 areas within structured finance and corporate finance et cetera? Sure.
You went out of order for us Craig.
We had flipped to that page already.
Hang on just a second.
Okay.
So starting with corporate finance investment grade was 14% of total revenues for the third quarter.
Again for all of global corporate finance the number was $233 million.
So again 14% was investment grade.
20% was speculative grade.
Bank loans was 24% which is up from 16% last year.
So you see the significant shift over to the bank loans line.
And other was 42% versus 35% last year.
Going on to the other areas for structured.
Total global structured $83.5 million.
25% of that was ABS.
20% of that was RMBS.
Commercial real estate was 31% notably up from 25% last year.
So that was the line that was running heavier.
And derivative about flat at 24% of that line.
Going on to FIG.
Total FIG was about $79 million.
And 66% of that was bank issuance.
30% was insurance issuance which was up from 26% last year so some increase in the insurance revenue.
Managed investments was 4%.
So that's FIG.
And moving onto PPIF public finance and sovereigns was 44% of the total of about $83 million for this line.
Municipal structured deals were 5% of revenue for this year.
And project and infrastructure saw the big increase at 51% of that $83 million.
So again the big shift there was to project and infra.
And we note that municipal issuance actually comes in the first line which is the PFG and sovereigns line.
So just make sure that everybody has that reflected accurately.
And I think Craig that does it.
It sure does.
Another follow-up question if I could.
Within your public finance project infrastructure area can you just talk a little bit further about what you're seeing there? And obviously you've lowered your guidance here for the year.
But what you're seeing there and what your outlook is? What were the puts and takes please? Well the project and infrastructure finance had a good quarter in the third quarter and that was true both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
And to the extent that what we've seen in that area is refinancing we would expect that a lot of that has been completed.
And so what we're looking for is new project new infrastructure activity to carry the growth in that line.
And there's a degree of uncertainty around how quickly that will reach the market.
So that's informing our current view.
Yes to follow-up a little bit Craig we had talked about disintermediation being important.
And the actual dollar numbers for project and infra it was $34 million last year and it's $42 million this year.
So I think that increase speaks to disintermediation as some of the banks particularly European banks step back from infrastructure projects particularly in Latin America.
And we're seeing more of those deals come to the capital markets.
Also we've had a little bit of a stall in muni issuance probably brought about by the federal conditions.
So that has come off a little bit.
Last year we saw $38 million.
This year about $36 million.
So usually that's just a matter of timing.
But again the uncertainty in the third quarter made a lot of things a little bit challenging and certainty made forecasting more challenging.
So I think that would cover the puts and takes in PPIF.
And also Ray or Linda when you think about the corporate finance market here and all the refinancings that certainly have happened here at the low rates here the last 2 to 3 years.
What is your bullish outlook if you have one on this as you'd think out for corporate finance.
Why it should be sustained at even a higher level next year and perhaps the year afterwards in terms of debt issuance please? Yes Craig this is the "it depends" answer.
And as we look at current activity we still see the refinancing component of issuance running 70%-plus of total issuance in terms of reasons cited in offering documentation.
Contrast that with as we have done previously with say the late '90s and the rising interest rate environment of the late '90s when less than half of issuance was associated with refinancing activity.
So if we have economic confidence business confidence so that the other elements of issuance M&amp;A activity capital expenditure share repurchase et cetera become more prominent as they were in the previous rising rate environment of '98 '99 we're in good shape.
If that doesn't happen then we will be on a soft patch for corporate issuance I would think.
Craig it's Linda.
Also for the fourth quarter more immediately we could of course see pull forward from 2014 issuance into the fourth quarter of this year.
But we're not sure.
And as I had said in my earlier comments the center point right now in terms of what we've heard is that tapering begins in March.
But we do note that tapering is perpetually 6 months away from the present point.
So we'll see how that plays out.
And the bull case would be that the 10-year stays around 2.5% doesn't go back up to 3% and that provides pretty attractive issuance environment for us.
The bear case would be that we go through the whole thing again with the debt ceiling in February.
And that is challenging as issuers might step away.
So we can really see it go either way.
And it sort of depends on how everything breaks.
And we'll have more to say about this when we do guidance for 2014.
We'll move next to Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe a pair of questions for Mark on the color of demand for how demand is trending for the Analytics franchises.
I guess on enterprise risk solutions we talked about the lumpiness so less of a focus on the fourth quarter and more just looking out on a rolling 12-month basis how are you looking at the momentum for that business into next year? Maybe help us understand what products or categories of solutions are seeing the strongest demand trends versus some that maybe are growing a little bit less than the overall average? Yes Andre demand for ERS is very strong.
As we said at Investor Day frankly demand is not the problem in this business.
We're seeing plenty of demand particularly heating up in the U.S.
related to banks that have to engage in these stress testing exercises.
The bank regulators have extended stress testing requirements beyond the largest banks in the country and down to the next tier.
And that's driving a tremendous amount of demand for exactly the kinds of things that we offer in MA.
So it's been -- demand's been very very good for us.
And we anticipate that continuing well into next year.
Research Division</strong> So I know you didn't formally -- there's no formal guidance but I guess when we look back at this point next year should we assume a similar trailing 12-month rate or is it too early to say? It's certainly too early to say but that's how we're managing the business.
We see very healthy demand.
We're very actively engaged.
We're talking to banks all over the country and of course overseas as well.
So I'd be surprised if we see a shift in the other direction.
Research Division</strong> Similarly on the RD&amp;A business is there any color you can provide below just the top line on what solutions are probably selling with a little bit stronger growth versus some that are maybe trending a little bit below? Well the strongest area in RD&amp;A has been the demand for the rating agency content.
That continues to be very very strong.
We've sustained very good growth in RD&amp;A at getting up to high-single digits which we think is very good for that business given the scale of it and our very strong penetration particularly in developed markets.
So that continues to perform quite well and we're very happy with that business.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go next to Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Interest expense jumped up but your net debt didn't jump up.
Can you sort of -- I hate to say the word explain but explain the jump in interest.
And is this now the run rate going forward? And second on the bank loan ratings or whatever they are called.
Are the margins on that the same as the traditional issuance? And that just seems to be a market that's exploded.
And is this a sort of a -- is this a sustainable level? Or is it going to go away if something changes? Not go away but go back to normal.
Ed it's Linda.
Let me take the question on interest expense first and then we'll talk a little bit more about bank loans.
As I said in the script we did do a $500 million bond deal.
And we did that in early August.
So we carried the expense extra interest expense which is $6 million a quarter.
We have the pro rata of that expense for the quarter.
So the interest expense number is if you look at the press release it's about $24 million.
And that's up about 4.5% from last year.
And that just reflects that new bond deal that we have so that we have plenty of liquidity here in the U.S.
And of course we hold that in cash.
So that's what's going on there.
But look for $6 million per quarter going forward.
And with respect to the margins and the bank loan rating business they are roughly similar to what we would see in the bond area.
It is again influenced by whether the companies are companies that we might already have a relationship with or not or whether they are new mandates.
Certainly we think the bank loan market is a good growth market for us going forward.
That's true both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
But it has benefited as I mentioned earlier both from some structural and some cyclical conditions.
So I would not put forward that it can continue to grow at the pace that it's currently growing at.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
I just want to thank you for all joining the call today and we look forward to speaking to you again near the new year.
Thank you.
This concludes Moody's third quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 4 p.m.
Eastern Time on Moody's website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 as well as our outlook for full year 2014.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Moody's released its results for the fourth quarter and full year 2013 as well as our outlook for full year 2014 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody's Corporation will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody's Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the act I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's fourth quarter and full year 2013 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
I'll conclude with comments on our outlook for 2014.
And after our prepared remarks we'll respond to your questions.
Moody's delivered strong financial performance throughout 2013 including revenue growth in all lines of business margin expansion and EPS growth of 18%.
Fourth quarter revenue of $779 million increased 3% over the fourth quarter of 2012 and reflected growth in Moody's Investor Service despite challenging year-on-year comparisons as well as continued strong growth from all lines of business of Moody's Analytics.
Operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $467 million a 5% decline from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Operating income for the fourth quarter was $312 million a 20% increase from the prior-year period.
Adjusted operating income which excludes depreciation and amortization as well as a goodwill impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2012 was $335 million up 13% from the same period last year.
Diluted earnings per share of $0.94 for the fourth quarter increased 34% from the prior-year period.
Excluding a legacy tax benefit of $0.09 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2013 was $0.85 a 21% increase from the fourth quarter of 2012.
For full year 2013 Moody's revenue of $3 billion increased 9% from full year 2012.
Revenue at Moody's Investors Service was $2.1 billion for 2013 an increase of 9% from last year.
Moody's Analytics revenue of $913 million was also 9% higher than the prior year.
Operating expenses for full year 2013 were $1.7 billion up 5% from 2012.
Operating income of $1.2 billion increased 15% from 2012.
Full year 2013 adjusted operating income of $1.3 billion increased 12% from the prior year.
Reported diluted earnings per share of $3.60 for the full year 2013 grew 18% from $3.05 in 2012.
Excluding a litigation settlement charge of $0.14 in the first quarter of 2013 and a legacy tax benefit of $0.09 in the fourth quarter of 2013 as well as a legacy tax benefit of $0.06 in the third quarter of 2012 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $3.65 for the full year 2013 grew 22% from $2.99 in 2012.
I'll now turn the call over to Linda to provide additional commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the fourth quarter increased 3% to $779 million.
The impact of foreign currency translation for the quarter was negligible.
Fourth quarter U.S.
revenue of $417 million and non-U.S.
revenue of $362 million both increased 3% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Non-U.S.
revenue represented 46% of Moody's total revenue compared to 47% in the year-ago period.
Recurring revenue of $390 million represented 50% of total revenue up from 46% in the prior-year period.
Looking now at each of our segments starting with Moody's Investors Service.
Total MIS revenue from the quarter was $523 million up 1% from the prior-year period.
U.S.
revenue for MIS declined 2% to $300 million over the prior-year period.
Revenue outside the U.S.
of $223 million increased 5% and represented 43% of total ratings revenue up from 41% in the prior-year period.
The impact of foreign currency translation for the quarter was negligible.
Moving on to the lines of business for MIS.
First global corporate finance revenue in the fourth quarter declined 1% from the year-ago period to $243 million.
In the U.S.
revenue was down 9% year-over-year reflecting a contraction in U.S.
bond issuance against a strong prior-year period.
Outside the U.S.
revenue was up 15% year-over-year as a result of higher investment grade issuance in Asia and speculative grade issuance in Europe as well as increased revenue from monitoring fees for outstanding ratings.
Second global structured finance revenue for the fourth quarter was $109 million 6% above the prior-year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 15% year-over-year primarily due to increased CMBS and reissuance as interest rates credit spreads and risk appetite were favorable.
International finance revenue was down 8% against the prior-year period driven by declines in revenue of European RMBS and Asian CMBS.
Third global financial institutions revenue of $89 million increased 3% from the same quarter of 2012 primarily reflecting increased revenue from asset management companies.
U.S.
revenue was up 6% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 1% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Fourth global public project and infrastructure finance revenue declined 3% year-over-year to $83 million.
Revenue was down 6% in the U.S.
primarily due to declines in public finance and project finance issuance partially offset by increased issuance in infrastructure finance while non-U.S.
revenue increased 1%.
Turning now to Moody's Analytics.
Global revenue for MA of $256 million was up 9% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
U.S.
revenue grew by 21% year-over-year to $117 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased by 1% to $140 million and represented 54% of total Moody's Analytics revenue down from 59% in the fourth quarter last year.
The impact of foreign currency translation was negligible.
And moving now to the lines of business for MA.
First global research data and analytics or RD&amp;A.
Revenue of $138 million increased 9% from the prior-year period and represented 54% of total MA revenue.
We continue to see a mid-90% customer retention rate as well as strong new sales of research products.
U.S.
revenue was up 8% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 10% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Second enterprise risk solutions or ERS.
Revenue of $85 million grew 7% from last year driven by strong growth in products and services that support bank stress testing activities.
Revenue was up 48% in the U.S.
while non-U.S.
revenue was down 10% against the prior-year period.
As we have previously noted ERS revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility due to the variable nature of project timing and completion.
On a trailing 12-month basis revenue and sales for ERS have increased 8% and 14% respectively.
Third global professional services revenue grew 16% to $33 million reflecting continued growth within Copal as well as the acquisition of Amba Investment Services in December 2013.
U.S.
revenue increased 54% and non-U.S.
revenue increased 6% year-over-year.
Turning now to expenses.
Moody's fourth quarter expenses were $467 million a decline of $27 million or 5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
This decline was primarily due to lower incentive compensation expense lower legal accruals and the absence of a goodwill impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2013 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
The year-over-year reduction in expenses was partially offset by increased compensation expense due to additional headcount and pension costs in 2013.
The impact of foreign currency translation on operating expenses for the quarter was negligible.
Moody's reported operating margin for the quarter expanded 550 basis points year-over-year from 34.5% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 40% in 2013.
Adjusted operating margin was 43% for the quarter up from 39.3% in the same period last year an expansion of 370 basis points.
Moody's effective tax rate for the quarter was 30.6% compared with 31.5% for the prior-year period.
The decline in the effective tax rate was primarily due to lower U.S.
taxes on foreign income.
And now I'll provide an update on capital allocation.
Moody's increased its quarterly dividend on December 17 by 12% to $0.28 per share of common stock.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 Moody's repurchased 2 million shares at a total cost of $146 million and issued 0.9 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plans.
For the full year 2013 Moody's repurchased 14 million shares at a total cost of $893 million or an average price of $62.90 per share and issued 50 -- excuse me 5.5 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plans.
Outstanding shares as of December 31 2013 totaled $214 million a 4% decline from the prior-year period.
As of December 31 2013 Moody's had $784 million of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program.
Also as of December 31 Moody's had $2.1 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under its revolving debt facilities.
Total cash cash equivalents and short-term investments at year end were $2.1 billion an increase of $333 million from a year earlier due in part to Moody's August 2013 bond offering of $500 million of senior unsecured notes.
Full year 2013 free cash flow was $885 million an increase of $106 million or 14% from a year ago.
Cash holdings maintained outside of the U.S.
at the end of the fourth quarter were $1.2 billion or 59% of total cash holdings.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I'll conclude this morning's prepared remarks by discussing our full year guidance for 2014.
Moody's outlook for 2014 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability business investment spending mergers and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There's an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody's results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end-of-quarter exchange rates.
While we anticipate variable market conditions in 2014 we nonetheless expect revenue growth across all areas of our business.
For Moody's overall we expect full year 2014 revenue to grow in the high single-digit percent range.
Full year 2014 operating expenses are projected to increase in the mid single-digit percent range reflecting the full year impact of 2013 hires as well as investments in our business.
These include products development initiatives particularly in credit research and enterprise risk solutions where demand for our capabilities is particularly strong.
We're also expanding our presence in important international markets.
Even including these investments our full year 2014 operating margin is expected to expand 50 to 150 basis points to be between 42% and 43% up from 41.5% in 2013.
Adjusted operating margin is expected to be between 45% and 46% up from 44.7% in 2013.
The effective tax rate is expected to increase to approximately 33% due to various tax law changes.
The company expects diluted earnings per share for the full year 2014 of $3.90 to $4.
We have endeavored to return capital to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
Over the course of 2013 Moody's increased its annualized declared dividend by 40% from $0.80 to $1.12.
For 2014 we expect share repurchases of approximately $1 billion subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
Full year 2014 capital expenditures are projected to be approximately $90 million reflecting ongoing infrastructure maintenance fit-out of additional floors at our 7 World Trade Center headquarters and investments in our business for efficiency and growth.
We expect approximately $100 million in depreciation and amortization expense.
Growth in compliance and regulatory expense is projected to be less than $5 million.
Free cash flow is expected to be approximately $900 million.
For the global MIS business revenue for full year 2014 is expected to increase in the mid single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MIS revenue is expected to increase in the low single-digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is expected to increase in the low double-digit percent range.
Corporate finance and public project and infrastructure finance revenues are both projected to grow in the high single-digit percent range.
Revenue from structured finance is expected to grow in the low single-digit percent range while revenue from financial institutions is expected to grow in the mid single-digit range.
For MA full year 2014 revenue is expected to increase in the low-teens percent range inclusive of our December 2013 acquisition of Amba Investment Services.
On an organic basis MA revenue is expected to expand in the high single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MA revenue is expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range.
Non-U.S.
revenue is expected to increase in the high-teens percent range.
Revenue from research data and analytics is projected to grow in the high single-digit percent range while revenue for enterprise risk solutions is projected to grow in the low-teens percent range.
Revenue from professional services is projected to grow in the mid-40s percent range which includes the recent acquisition of Amba.
Organically professional services revenue is expected to increase in the low double-digit percent range.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain the President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody's Investor Service; and Mark Almeida President of Moody's Analytics.
We'd be pleased to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question today from William Bird with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Ray I was wondering if you could talk about just how you see debt issuance developing in 2014 and what you view as some of the key swing categories as you think about your outlook? Sure.
As I think you can glean from our guidance we do expect international activity particularly in the corporate sector to be stronger than growth in the U.S.
Looking at I think market consensus we would expect in the U.S.
to see modestly down volumes and issuance counts.
And Linda may wish to give some additional color on that.
And it's really -- in terms of the variables here for corporate finance as we've talked about before it's really a question of both interest rates and how that affects refinancing activity as well as if we do have a rising rate environment is that associated with business confidence and borrowing for non-refinancing reasons whether it be M&amp;A or capital expenditure or share repurchase.
So that would be a significant swing factor.
And I would also say that as always the amount of activity in the securitization markets and the question about whether there's going to be a recovery in European securitization off of what was a relatively quiet year last year would be the second area I'd look to as an important variable.
Bill it's Linda.
I think we see unusual differences between U.S.
and non-U.S.
trends in the issuance markets right now.
Let me go through within the U.S.
for this week we see about 15 billion of issuance but we would remind everyone that we're still in blackout period at this point.
January looks like about 100 billion of U.S.
investment-grade issuance which may be down 10% year-over-year.
And for the full year most projections are at about 900 billion which is sort of flattish to down 5% again in the U.S.
But we've seen very good fund flows into bond funds so far this year.
$9 billion has moved into bond funds.
And interestingly as the market has wobbled and there've been a resurgence of risk factors interest rates have come back in.
As of this morning the 10 year is at 2 67 the 5 year is at 1 47 and that is helpful in terms of issuance trends.
So we would expect that perhaps even beginning next week things will start to pick up.
Thus far in the year we've seen investment grades skewed heavily towards financials in the U.S.
And we've seen very heavy issuance from Yankee issuers in other words issuers coming from outside the U.S.
Pipelines of investment grade in the U.S.
right now would be characterized as light to average.
Looking at high yield we've seen about $10 billion this week.
January looks to be at about $30 billion.
The year is projected at about $300 billion.
Again in the U.S.
that's down a little bit from last year but I'll ask Michel Madelain to comment as we move through this.
Again it's a different story outside the U.S.
The issuance levels all-in for high yield are at 5.91% this morning.
Again issuance levels under 6% are very helpful to the high-yield market.
And so we'll see what happens with M&amp;A activity and so on but pipelines are characterized as average.
And leveraged loans continue to be the -- very much the bright spot this week $15 billion of leveraged loans.
January at $50 billion which is up 40% year-over-year.
The year's forecast is $400 billion which is down a bit but we'll see how that plays out.
Leveraged loan market has started the year in great shape.
Inflows have been very strong $460 million for the week.
The asset class has not seen a weekly outflow since June of 2012 as investors continue to look at floating rate paper as the attractive place to be.
And the pipeline there is termed to be robust in leveraged loans.
So with all of that might be interesting for you to hear from Michel to hear his observations on the difference between U.S.
and the international market.
Thank you Linda.
William I think that's the main point we have in front of us is these contrast between the U.S.
and non-U.S.
U.S.
what we have is a situation with obviously more challenging comparables because of what we've seen this year and an expectation of a contraction of issuance in investment grade and also high-yield bonds.
Internationally what we see especially in Europe is the fact that we expect to benefit from a continuation of disintermediation and bringing new transaction as well as improving economic conditions.
So again both factors are helping to generate additional flow of new bonds basically.
Bill that might be more than what you wanted but that's the story.
Research Division</strong> Well said well spoken.
And how do you expect expenses to phase in in 2014? Sure.
As we said expenses in -- growing in mid single-digits for 2014.
And the reason for that Bill we've got businesses which are performing very strongly here.
We're very pleased with our businesses' performances in 2013 and the outlook for '14.
We think we have some good opportunities and so looking at expense growth in the mid single-digits.
For the first quarter I'll make this easy.
I think what we'd look at on a GAAP basis is probably expenses in the first quarter somewhere around $450 million.
And then we're looking at a ramp again over the course of the year probably $35 million to $40 million of increase by the time we get to the fourth quarter.
So again modest increase in expenses over the course of the year with the fourth quarter being the highest.
Again with the traditional ramp that Moody's sees at $35 million to $40 million starting off of the base at around $450 million in the first quarter if things play out as we expect.
Our next question is from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Ray the international numbers are particularly impressive I think.
Is it possible to break out the impact or quantify the impact of this whole disintermediation thesis versus just secular growth or cyclical growth in the market? And then I'm wondering also related to that if you have any statistics you can share with us on number of new issuers you're seeing in the international markets? Sure.
The contribution from disintermediation is again probably 2 to 3 points of revenue as we've talked about previously.
And that has been fairly steady over the last few years.
We had a particularly strong year last year for new mandates.
And I think the number of new mandates was over 500 last year.
So it was a strong year.
We -- the trends that are influencing that the deleveraging pressure on financial institutions particularly in Europe continues.
I think that also the interest of corporate borrowers to diversify their access to capital continues.
So it looks like a powerful story and a long-term story as opposed to a cyclical story.
Peter it's Linda.
I think as we finished the fourth quarter our new mandates might have even been a bit higher than what Ray stated maybe around 800 new mandates.
But that has been wind at our backs as we said and we're pleased with the international issuance pace also in Asia as well as in Europe.
Research Division</strong> How would that 800 compare with '12 Linda? Do you know? Let me just clarify that the numbers we have we have net and gross numbers and so we have to be clear about that.
But I'm sorry your question Peter? Research Division</strong> How -- whichever number it is how it compared to the prior year? It was up by several hundred.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Excellent.
And then in terms of the stepped-up pace of buyback activity so if I'm calculating this right if you do $1 billion of buyback and call it a couple hundred million of dividend payments that will likely exceed the free cash flow.
So should I read into this a willingness maybe to use a little bit more leverage not just near term but over the next several years in terms of maintaining a higher level of buybacks? The question really is the $1 billion level a number we might expect on a continuing basis? Well that's going to be subject to a number of factors and ongoing review of how our financial performance is what our other opportunities are for use of capital.
I will say that I think we have the capacity to continue to repurchase at that rate absent something unexpected.
So there's certainly that potential.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then last thing pricing anything different in '14 than what you've done in the last couple of years? Peter it's Linda.
I don't think so.
As we have guided in our previous discussions with investors on the 4-box growth chart we've said pricing is 3% to 4% of our growth and we continue to look at that for 2014.
We'll go to Patrick O'Shaughnessy with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is obviously we've had a pretty big upheaval in the emerging markets to start 2014.
Have you seen any of that have an impact on new issuers kind of coming to market or your conversations with companies that are based in emerging markets? Yes the turmoil in the emerging markets certainly has had an impact on short-term pipelines and issuance levels.
I don't think that that is going to remain a story for the full year.
And I would expect that we're going to see -- continue to see good activity in the Yankee market as Linda mentioned.
But also with -- I think with the realization that interest rates in the U.S.
may not be moving as far as fast as people had feared will bring some more stability to the emerging market side of the equation.
Patrick it's Linda.
I think as I had mentioned in the earlier remarks the elevation in the VIX and various other things has resulted in the U.S.
rates coming in about 30 basis points which is attractive for issuers.
So we'll see how that is viewed.
But we thought that the markets might be waiting for some of this end-of-year data before issuers take another step but we will see how things pan out as we move through February.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then second question for me.
So I think there's been a number of articles these last few days about the Volcker Rule and its impact on CLOs and it certainly looks like the CLO market has dried up a little bit.
But from your commentary it sounds like the leveraged loan market still remains pretty robust.
So can you just provide some commentary on your level of concern about how the Volcker Rule is impacting CLOs and what the banks can hold and how you see things playing out there? Yes I mean I think we have seen a market reaction both in terms of the pull forward of CLO activity and quite a bit of debate about how the Volcker Rule will ultimately impact this market.
I'm pretty optimistic that a resolution is going to be found that is going to allow banks to continue to issue CLOs and to have the treatment of that economically work for them in terms of what's on the balance sheet.
The commentary from policymakers and regulatory officials I think has recognized that challenge and they're looking for a solution that's not going to be disruptive to the market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's helpful.
And then last one for me.
Just on your fourth quarter repurchases did about $145 million to get to $893 million for the year.
Obviously it came in a little bit below your $1 billion guidance.
Was there something about the market conditions in the fourth quarter that slowed the pace or what was going on with that? Sure.
It's Linda.
As we've talked about before we put in place our repurchase grid shortly after we give the previous quarter's earnings.
So we have to do that during a window period.
And our stock price we were very fortunate had a rather dramatic increase in the fourth quarter.
So we didn't get as much done as we wanted to but we'll take another look as we move through this period and see how we do for 2014.
Next is Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just want to ask a few about Moody's Analytics.
To start with I guess the RD&amp;A part I know you said it was kind of high retention and strong new sales.
But can you give us any more color on what type of products? Are there new products? I guess what's driving the strong new sales right now and anything you've done or what's behind it just to know if it's sustainable.
Sure.
I'm going to turn this over to Mark Almeida.
In the RD&amp;A business we've seen good sales volume really across the product portfolio.
Demand continues to be very strong for the rating agency research and data which are the biggest pieces of the business.
So when they do well the RD&amp;A segment does well.
We've also seen good new sales production in the economics business particularly in the fourth quarter.
So I think that overall there's just been very good demand for what we're doing in the business.
We've done a bit of new product innovation and have introduced a couple of new ways of delivering our content in a packaged way.
So that's helped as well.
But the retention has really been quite strong.
And given the size of the business that's very very beneficial.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then my only other question here ERS you gave a commentary about U.S.
versus international revenue I guess which can be lumpy.
But if we looked at the bookings numbers or trailing sales numbers that you gave are you -- is there a similar distinction between U.S.
versus international performance? Or was that just the timing of revenue recognition for that business? No it's entirely a timing phenomenon there.
The sales production is much more consistent from region to region.
But the revenue results are -- can be wildly different because they're driven by what projects get done and when they get completed.
And so we just had a number of very large projects that got completed in the fourth quarter in the U.S.
And by contrast in the fourth quarter last year we had some very big projects outside the U.S.
getting done.
So as you said purely a timing phenomenon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess one more if I could I forgot I may have missed it but can you tell us what the incentive comp was for the quarter? Sure.
Sure.
Let me take that out.
Incentive compensation for the quarter was $47 million and that was down from about $60 million in this quarter last year.
The actual change was $12.7 million.
So while we had a good and strong fourth quarter it was not as strong as last year's fourth quarter where we had to catch up a bit on our incentive compensation.
And we'll go to Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Yes a couple -- you made a couple of comments about expanded headcount going into '14.
Linda is there any numbers you can give around that? Sure.
Happy to do that.
We're looking at -- for 2013 we had a headcount increase of about 9% for the previous year and that excluded the acquisition that we had done with Amba.
So looking to 2014 we're looking at sort of a similar rate of headcount increase.
But one of the things that we're noting is that about 80% of that increase is to the lines of business in other words not the support function.
So that 80% ratio is important.
We're looking to make sure that the businesses are appropriately staffed for the investments we're making and the strong growth that we've seen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just one follow-up on revenues.
I think the press release implied that 40 -- roughly 43% of MIS revenues in the quarter were international.
When you look specifically at the corporate finance where international was particularly strong is it a similar percent there or is it slightly higher? Sure.
For the corporate finance line for Q4 of 2013 international was 39% of the total and U.S.
was 61% of the total for the fourth quarter 2013.
And the year's numbers the percentages look about the same.
And next is Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
LLC Research Division</strong> My questions have been answered.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now go to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to try and understand the operating expense guidance that you gave by division and maybe more specifically I guess the skew with the contribution of Amba.
Like how should we think about what the incremental expense contribution there would be on the MA side? Sure Manav.
You may not be too happy with this answer but I think we're going to stick with our mid single-digit and you can probably infer from what I said regarding the headcount numbers that we're looking to have the stronger growth rates in expense be in the operating division lines which we think is appropriate to drive the growth.
But we'd rather not get into that level of detail if that's okay.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then I guess in terms of the issuance by plan et cetera that you guys see.
I mean I think last year you're taking a shot at sort of the initial quarterly phasing maybe of how that might play out would you care to take a shot at that now? I think the revenue pattern which is going to relate to the issuance pattern is going to be similar to what we saw in 2013 with relatively stronger quarters in the second and fourth quarter.
That is a typical pattern.
It has not been consistently followed in recent years but it has been a pattern we've seen historically and we are anticipating that 2014 is going to look somewhat like 2013 in terms of that sawtooth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
I guess you don't have any slide on any regulatory or any other update.
Nothing to report there basically? No.
We are in the process of being inspected and reviewed examined by regulators in different jurisdictions around the world.
We've gone through significant effort to make sure that we are complying with new rules and regulations and those are largely complete although not fully complete and we'll have to continue to develop some new compliance programs.
But it's nothing that I think is at the policy level at this point.
It's really more about inspections examinations and compliance.
And we'll go to Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
I've got some housekeeping questions here first.
Linda this 33% tax rate guidance for 2014 can you just give us a further update why it's come up roughly 150 basis points? Sure Craig.
We did extraordinarily well on the tax rate in 2013 and we had some things that we don't expect to repeat break our way.
Predicting the effective tax rate is one of the hardest things that we do because at this point in the year the tax rate is difficult to forecast because we have some tax law changes that are said to be happening and they are in flux.
So for example there are 2 pieces in the U.S.
that you might want to look up.
One is the extension of look-through provisions and the second is R&amp;D tax credits both of those at the present time are not expected to be extended in the U.S.
Now that may change.
That has changed in previous years.
But we're taking a conservative view and we're planning that those 2 factors will not be extended.
So those things along with a couple of other factors are causing us to ask you to look at an effective tax rate of 33% for 2014.
We understand that's up from 2013 and we'll continue to work on it in our usual conservative manner.
But that's what we're working with right now and we can only plan for the best that we know.
And then also I was just wondering your thoughts here Ray or Linda as you know your main competitor S&amp;P's transaction revenues were down about 12% in the quarter.
Yours were down about 5.5%.
Do you guys view that as just noise or is there's some market share you're picking that you want to really highlight here? We've had some improvements in market share for example in European structured finance.
But their -- I can only speak to our numbers.
I wouldn't speak to our competitors.
And trying to look at this on a longer term basis though I think we have to look at the mix both geographically and by security type and areas where we are traditionally strong are more active in certain quarters than in others and vice versa.
So it does take some time to try and get through the noise.
And so I would -- I'm cautious about predicting any long-term trends out of this.
A couple of more questions please.
Can you just give us an update on the legal front particularly the Calpers case please? Not a lot to report on the Calpers case.
The matter is still in the California courts.
We filed an appeal a court appeal seeking a reversal of the lower court decision denying our motion to dismiss under this anti-SLAPP statute.
And the briefing on the appeal was completed a few months ago and we don't know when the case will be argued or decided at this point.
My last question.
Linda can you just help break apart the revenues a little finer detail here within your ratings business.
Like within corporate finance for example can you break out the percentages or dollars for high-yield versus bank loans and also the other 3 large categories please? Sure Craig.
So what we're looking at here is fourth quarter of 2013 as compared to the fourth quarter of '12 and I'll start with the corporate finance line as you asked for Craig.
So investment grade it was 23% of the total CFG line which was about $243 million.
The high yield portion of 2014's revenue was 21% or $50 million which is down from 24% in 2012.
Bank loans were at 20% which is the same as last year and other was 37% up a bit from last year's 34%.
Moving on to the other lines of business now turning to structured finance asset-backed securities 25% of structured revenue line of about $109 million for the fourth quarter of 2013 that was down a bit from last year's 28%.
RMBS was 19% of structured revenues for the fourth quarter that's flat to last year.
Commercial real estate finance was 32% up from last year's 28%.
We had spoken about that earlier.
And structured credit what's also known as derivatives was 24% of that total about flat to last year's 25%.
Going on to financial institutions about $89 million of revenue for the fourth quarter of 2013.
And banking was about 71% of that total or about $64 million.
That was down a bit from last year's 73%.
Insurance was 22% of the number flat to last year's 22% and managed investments was 6% of the total which was up a bit from last year's 5%.
Moving on last to public project and infrastructure total number for the quarter was about $83 million.
Public finance and sovereign 43% or $35 million which was down from last year's 47%.
Munis was about 5% of the total down a bit from last year's 6%.
And project and infrastructure as we have noted at about $43 million up to 52% of the total down from last year's -- excuse me up from last year's 47%.
If I could just ask one follow-up there.
The sovereign piece of that public finance and sovereign line how insignificant right now I guess for the full year was sovereign? I think we...
We don't disclose the dollar figures but it's small.
Yes I think a few percent Craig is what we've said before.
It's frankly not particularly material.
And we'll go to Alex Kramm with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Real quick.
I guess only a couple of follow-ups.
On the guidance I think the one thing to dig in a little bit if you may on the structured side obviously that's the lowest growth and you talked about it a little bit.
Is it just conservatism and considering that that business has been so lumpy and so uncertain I mean there's been times when we thought they were green shoots and then markets like RMBS kind of collapsed again and maybe more recently it's like ABS has been a little bit more in demand.
Can you just talk about what you're seeing out there what we should be looking for and if there is a resurgence like where you expect it to come and what we should be looking for? Well I guess to answer the beginning part of your question I hope our guidance is conservative on structured.
And there are a lot of uncertainties as we talked about earlier what happens with CLOs from a regulatory perspective what is going to happen with the residential mortgage-backed securities market and its pace of growth.
The European market which has been very soft and whether that's going to experience a recovery in 2014.
There are some good reasons to believe that each of these can break in a favorable way but they remain uncertainties at this point.
And then I guess the last item I'd just point to is actually the economics of doing these transactions which can be subject to interest rates and spreads between high-grade and lower-grade securities.
So there is just an economics question in terms of when it's attractive to issue these securities.
Alex it's Linda.
I'd also continue to point out that as we said the greatest strength we're seeing is in the commercial real estate line which had moved up nicely in the fourth quarter.
And also REITs.
So those are the places where we're seeing strength.
As you pointed out RMBS is for the fourth quarter is about flat from last year.
And it would probably be fair if we ask Michel if he had anything further that he could add that Ray and I have not mentioned.
Nothing much.
I think you covered pretty much -- the other place where we see some potential improvement is ABS in Europe basically is one place but...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then maybe just lastly just to come back on the tax rate and maybe it's not a fair question but I mean obviously -- the incremental color there but if I think about your guidance and you're looking at stronger growth next year or this year in outside of the U.S.
And I think about tax rate changes in the U.K.
for example rates are going down.
And then in general rates seem to be lower outside of the U.S.
Shouldn't conceptually that still be a helpful driver? Or do you think you've exhausted all those opportunities already? Well Alex we're going to continue to work hard on it and look region-by-region at what we can do.
On the tax rate again we take a conservative approach to this.
I spoke a little bit about some of the U.S.
things that are pending but for right now we don't have an extension of previous provisions.
In Europe we do see some countervailing trends.
There have been changes in the U.K.
which have been -- had the result of moving things up a bit in terms of rates in the U.K.
so you might want to take a look at that.
But again if we have progress on the tax line and if we have a change to the estimated tax rate we will be happy to tell you about that in future quarter calls if we get that.
But again we understand that this is an important factor.
If you look at the difference it looks like it will cost us about $0.12 in EPS and we're mindful that that is a change that's not helpful.
But we'll continue to work at it as we said.
And we'll now go to Hamzah Mazari with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question Ray on how you're thinking about M&amp;A and whether your pipeline going into '14 is stronger versus '13.
It seems like there are a lot more assets out on the market.
Maybe give us a sense of what your feel is there? I think our internal pipeline would look similar in 2014 to 2013.
We've talked about this before.
We look at a lot of potential opportunities and we're very -- we think we're very vigorous in the assets that we actually choose to pursue.
And I've said before also I think the likelihood of doing something transformative is relatively low.
So we would be looking more for assets that have the kind of size and synergies that we've seen with our recent acquisitions whether it's Amba Copal or going back a couple of years to some of the acquisitions we made in the enterprise risk solutions business.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Just a quick follow-up I'll turn it over.
Could you maybe compare your competitive positioning and exposure within the U.S.
versus the European structured finance market? Sure.
And I'll ask Michel to offer his views on this.
We -- at a high level we have a very good position in both markets.
There are areas where we have traditionally been stronger and that includes commercial mortgage-backed securities CLOs the residential mortgage-backed securities market in Europe.
And so you can see where we're strong and the markets are active we obviously benefit from that.
Conversely European RMBS which has been quite dormant especially in the U.K.
is an area where if it were more active I think the strength we have in that market would come and help our top line certainly.
Michel did you want to...
No.
I mean only point I would add is covered bonds [ph] mainly where so we have a very strong position and [indiscernible] have been very soft lately and we benefit or gain from [indiscernible].
And we'll now go to Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question I mentioned in your current views on the opportunity to rate debt in Asia.
How much of the international revenue did that account for in 2013? And do you have any view on where that could go based on either the macro or a conversation that you're having with clients in the region? Yes our -- the -- our Asian revenue is still relatively small.
It is -- I'll put out a number and my colleagues will correct me.
I think it's about 13% of our total.
And it's an area of growth but it's an area where disintermediation has been lagging behind what we've seen in Europe and certainly the United States.
So we've got good opportunities there.
They are multiple types of opportunities though some of it on the ratings side of the business.
And in the ratings side of the business some of it in domestic markets such as Korea China India and obviously the cross-border markets as large firms in those countries access the international bond markets.
We also have good opportunities in Moody's Analytics in the Asian markets both with research and in particular with our enterprise risk solutions business.
Do we have a number on that? Yes we've got the -- for the overall corporation for the year Ray's right we're looking at low double-digits for international growth.
And in terms of what we're seeing with the 2 businesses I think we might invite Michel and maybe Mark to speak a bit more about that if they'd like to.
Yes in Asia for us corporate finance is really where we see the biggest opportunity and the biggest growth.
And actually last -- this year we've seen among the highest growth rate in the business in that region actually.
So that's all I have.
In MA I would just -- I'd endorse what Ray said.
It's a good market for us.
And in particular the research business in Asia has picked up nicely in 2013.
Still relatively small scale but very healthy growth rate.
So that's very good to see very profitable business.
So Andre I think in total we're looking at 9% revenue growth for the company and we've just said low double-digits you might infer that Asia is growing a little bit more rapidly on the whole across the businesses than maybe we're seeing in some of the other regions.
But again I would caution that's coming off of a small number as Ray had said.
Research Division</strong> And any light that you'd be able to shed on what gives you confidence that the public project and infrastructure finance business is going to grow high single-digit next year? I know we just came off the first down quarter in some time it's been pretty strong previously.
Is it just the macro trends or is there something else specific that you're seeing in the pipeline? What you have in that segment is really several businesses with very different dynamics.
You have U.S.
public finance where we actually expect to continue to see a contraction of volumes this year.
And this is offset by positive development in infrastructure and project outside of the U.S.
similar to what we've seen this year.
And Andre going from memory oftentimes U.S.
municipalities have to get their budgets in order.
So I think traditionally we see that business is stronger toward the middle of the year than in the first quarter so that's a trend we'll have to watch as well.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference back to Ray McDaniel for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
I just want to mention that on Tuesday September 30 we'll be hosting our Annual Investor Day.
It will be at our headquarters here in lower Manhattan.
More information will be available on the Investor Relations website as we get closer to the event.
So thank you all for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking to you again in April.
Thank you very much.
This concludes Moody's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 3:30 p.m.
Eastern time on Moody's website.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody’s Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for question and answers following the presentation.
I’ll now like to turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody’s first quarter results and our outlook for full year 2014.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Moody’s released its results for the first quarter of 2014 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Corporation will lead this morning’s conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on this morning’s call is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody’s Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found towards the end of our earnings release.
Today’s remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2013 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I’ll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thanks Salli.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining us on today’s call.
I’ll begin by summarizing Moody’s first quarter 2014 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
I will then conclude with remarks about our outlook for 2014.
And after our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to respond to your questions.
First quarter revenue of $767 million increased 5% from the first quarter of 2013 and reflected continued strength in Moody’s Analytics as well as modest growth in Moody’s Investor Service despite variable market conditions and challenging year-on-year comparisons.
Operating expenses for the first quarter were $434 million a 4% decline from the first quarter of 2013.
Operating income for the first quarter was $333 million a 19% increase from period year period.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $356 million up 17% from the same period last year.
Diluted earnings per share of $1 for the first quarter increased 20% from $0.83 in the first quarter of 2013 and on a non-GAAP basis excluding litigation settlement charge in 2013 increased 3% from $0.97 in the prior year period.
We are reaffirming our full year 2014 guidance of high-single-digit percent revenue growth and EPS in the range of $3.90 to $4.
I’ll now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I’ll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody’s total revenue for the quarter increased 5% to $767 million.
The impact of foreign currency translation for the quarter was negligible.
First quarter U.S.
revenue increase 4% to $426 million.
Our revenue outside the U.S.
grew 6% to $342 million and represented 45% of Moody’s total revenue for the quarter.
Recurring revenue grew 12% to $397 million and represented 52% of total revenue up from 49% in the prior year period.
Looking now at each of our businesses starting with Moody’s Investor Service.
Total MIS revenue for the quarter was $526 million up 1% from the prior-year period.
U.S.
MIS revenue of $316 million increased 1% from the prior-year period.
MIS revenue generated outside the U.S.
of $210 million also increased 1% and represented 40% of total ratings revenue.
The impact of foreign currency translation on the MIS revenue was negligible.
Moving to the lines of business for MIS.
First global corporate finance revenue in the first quarter increased 2% from the year ago period to $264 million and reflected increased U.S.
investment grade bond issuance as well as higher revenue from rated U.S.
and European bank loans.
We also saw increased monitoring revenue across all regions as a result of more companies becoming rated to access the global bond markets.
These gains were partially offset by a contraction in global speculative bond issuance.
In the U.S.
year-over-year revenue was up 5% while non-U.S.
revenue declined 3%.
Second global structured finance revenue for the first quarter was $95 million an increase of 2% from the prior-year period.
In the U.S.
revenue increased 5% year-over-year primarily due to commercial real estate ratings.
International structured finance revenue was down 3% against the prior-year period with gains in certain asset classes in Europe more than offset by weakness in Asia.
Third global financial institutions revenue of $85 million decreased 1% from the same quarter in 2013.
U.S.
revenue declined 3% while non-U.S.
revenue was flat to the first quarter of 2013.
Fourth global public project and infrastructure finance revenue declined 3% year-over-year to $81 million.
U.S.
revenue was down 14% primarily due to weakness in public finance.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 19% from the prior-year period reflecting increased infrastructure and sovereign rating revenue across all international regions.
Turning now to Moody’s Analytics.
Global revenue for Moody’s Analytics of $241 million was up 15% from the first quarter of 2013.
The impact of foreign currency translation on MA revenue was negligible.
U.S.
revenue grew by 14% year-over-year to $110 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $132 million increased 15% in the prior-year period and represented 54% of total Moody’s Analytics revenue.
Excluding the December 2013 acquisition of Amba Investment Services revenue increased 10% year-over-year.
Moving to the lines of business for MA.
First global research data and analytics or RD&amp;A.
Revenue of $141 million increased 9% from the prior-year period and represented 58% of total MA revenue.
RD&amp;A’s customer retention rate remained in the mid 90% range and we continued to see performance in credit research sales and content licensing.
RD&amp;A’s U.S.
revenue was up 7% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 11% as compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Second global enterprise risk solutions or ERS.
Revenue of $50 million grew 13% against the prior year period due to growth in subscription revenue and software maintenance fees.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue increased 14% and 12% respectively against the same period last year.
As we’ve noted in the past due to the variable nature of project timing and completion ERS revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Trailing 12-month sales and revenue for ERS have increased 9% and 11% respectively.
Lastly global professional services revenue grew 45% to $41 million primarily reflecting the December 2013 acquisition of Amba Investment Services and continued growth in revenue from Copal Partners.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenues increased 70% and 35% respectively year-over-year.
Excluding Amba Investment Services professional services revenue increased 7% from the first quarter of 2013.
Turning now to expenses.
Moody’s first quarter expenses declined 4% to $434 million compared to the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to lower legal expenses partially offset by increased compensation expenses for additional headcount.
The impact of foreign currency translation on operating expenses was negligible for the quarter.
Moody’s reported operating margin for the quarter was 43.4% up 510 basis points from 38.3% in the first quarter of 2013.
Adjusted operating margin was 46.4% for the quarter up 490 basis points from 41.5% for the same period last year.
Moody’s effective tax rate for the quarter was 28.9% compared with 28.5% for the prior-year period.
The first quarter 2014 tax rate included a benefit from the resolution of a foreign tax audit while the first quarter 2013 tax rate included benefits from the litigation settlement charge and the retroactive extension of certain U.S.
tax benefits.
Now I’ll provide an update on capital allocation.
During the first quarter of 2014 Moody’s repurchased 2.5 million shares at a total cost of $202 million or an average of $79.21 per share and issued 2.9 million shares under our annual employee stock-based compensation plans.
Outstanding shares as of March 31 2014 were 213.7 million reflecting a 4% decline from a year earlier.
In the first quarter of 2014 the Board of Directors authorized a new $1 billion share repurchase program which will commence following the completion of the existing program.
Including this new program as of March 31 2014 Moody’s had $1.6 billion of share repurchase authority remaining.
At quarter-end Moody’s had $2.1 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Total cash cash equivalents restricted cash and short-term investments at quarter-end were $2 billion an increase of $275 million from a year earlier.
As of March 31 2014 approximately 65% of our cash holding were maintained outside the U.S.
Free cash flow for the first three months of 2014 of $158 million decreased $56 million from the same period a year ago.
And with that I’ll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I’ll conclude this morning’s prepared remarks by discussing our full year guidance for 2014.
Moody’s outlook for 2014 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability business investment spending mergers and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody’s results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end-of-quarter exchange rates.
As I mentioned earlier our full year 2014 EPS guidance range remains $3.90 to $4.
For Moody’s overall the company still expects full year 2014 revenue to grow in the high-single-digit percent range.
Full year 2014 operating expenses are still projected to increase in the mid-single-digit percentage range.
Full year 2014 operating margin is still projected to be 42% to 43% and adjusted operating margin for the year is still expected to be 45% to 46%.
The effective tax rate is still expected to be approximately 33%.
Full year 2014 total share repurchases are still expected to be approximately $1 billion subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
Capital expenditures are still projected to be approximately $90 million.
The company still expects approximately $100 million in depreciation and amortization expense.
Growth in compliance and regulatory expense in 2014 is still projected to be less than $5 million.
Free cash flow is still expected to be approximately $900 million.
We’ve modified certain components of 2014 guidance to reflect the company’s current view of business conditions.
For the global MIS business revenue for the full year 2014 is still expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MIS revenue is still expected to increase in the low-single-digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is still expected to increase in the low-double-digit percent range.
Corporate finance revenue is now projected to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Revenue from structured finance is still expected to grow in the low-single-digit percent range.
Financial institutions revenue is still expected to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
In public project and infrastructure finance revenue is still expected to increase in the high-single-digit percent range.
For Moody’s Analytics full year 2014 revenue including the December 2013 acquisition of Amba Investment Services is still expected to increase in the low-teens percent range.
Within the U.S.
MA revenue is now expected to increase in the low-double-digit percent range.
Non-U.S.
revenue is still expected to increase in the high-teens percent range.
Excluding Amba Investment Services revenue for Moody’s Analytics is still expected to grow in the high-single-digit percent range.
Revenue from research data and analytics is still projected to grow in the high-single-digit percent range while revenue for enterprise risk solutions is still expected to grow in the low-teens percent range.
Professional services revenue including Amba Investment Services is now projected to grow in the low-forties percent range.
Excluding Amba Investment Services revenue for professional services is now expected to grow in the high-single-digit percent range.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investor Service; and Mark Almeida President of Moody’s Analytics.
We’ll be pleased to take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Yes hi everybody.
So the first question on the ratings business.
You mentioned on the structured finance side that you some benefit on the commercial real estate side.
I thought the CMBS activity was not that great this quarter.
So I was just wondering is that an implication that there is some share gains happening or maybe this is some other dynamic that I am not picking up.
Manav this is Ray.
No you’re correct.
We did have strong coverage in the commercial real estate sector in the first quarter.
So that benefited us.
Okay.
And was that specific to I guess just the U.S.
right.
What is the sort of your outlook on the Europe in terms of how that performs? You’re correct.
This was a U.S.
story in the first quarter.
Commercial real estate in Europe and Asia was not strong in first quarter but the U.S.
market is substantial.
And so overall contributed to the growth in securitization for Q1.
Got it.
And then just a question for Mark.
In terms of the instead of bigger strategic vision for professional services is Copal and Amba basically with your testing business or whatever the complete suite or is there something else that needs to be added on to this long-term just trying to understand what the vision is for that particular business? Manav I think I’d say that we like what we’re doing in that area.
We like the – we added Amba last year to build out the Copal platform.
And we like where that business is going.
We see a lot more growth opportunity there.
In the training and certification business similarly we like where we’re positioned there.
That business has been a little bit soft over the last couple of quarters and I think that mostly reflects some of the banks having other priorities in other areas that they are funding rather than focusing on training and development of their staff.
But I guess the short answer is we like where we are in professional services and we particularly like what we’re doing in the outsource research and analytics side of business.
Manav it’s Linda.
Let me probably just point out that we own two-thirds of the Copal Amba Group.
So just want to make sure that everybody is aware of that ownership structure.
Okay fair enough.
And actually Linda if I can just squeeze in one.
On the expense side I think last quarter you had talked about it coming in at $450 million and then ramping up another $40 million by the end of the year.
It came in a little better this quarter.
How should we adjust that for the rest of the year? Yes Manav your observation is exactly correct.
We did do better than we expect on the expense side in the first quarter.
So we still expect the same end point.
So we would ask that you look at a little bit of a steeper ramp.
So we’d like you now to look at $50 million to $55 million of ramps specifically from $434 million this quarter to $490 million for the end of the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning.
I first want to follow-up Manav’s last question.
In terms of the costs the lower than expected this quarter.
Can we get a little more color on what exactly drove that? Was it just a timing issue was it lower comp accrual.
Just what makes you believe that you’re still going to spend the same amount of money for the full year? Sure Andre.
The factors to the positive were lower legal costs and lower incentive compensation.
I think we have said previously you might want to look at $35 million for incentive comps for each quarter.
We ran shy of $30 million this quarter because of the top line was close and EPS was good but we were little bit lighter on incentive comp.
Those two positives were offset by overall higher compensation expenses because we’ve added more people over the course of the year and some consulting and IT costs for some of the things that we’re looking to do too improve efficiency to ramp here.
So it didn’t what we see now.
We do think we will have that ramp over the course of the year.
We are intending to increase headcount to support our revenue growth over the course of the year.
And again we can’t predict exactly what’s going to happen with incentive compensation but probably that $45 million a quarter is as good number you’re presenting.
Thanks.
And for a follow-up on the RD&amp;A business.
Could you maybe talk a little bit about how much of a growth which has been sustained high-single-digits for the last year or so on a quarterly basis? How much of that’s driven by say new product innovation versus growth in demand from some of the existing products and pricing? And are there any things on the horizon that you’re seeing as you talk to customers that would make you lead to believe that you can maybe even see a higher growth rate? Mark why don’t you address that if you would.
Yes.
Andre I think that what’s been going on in RD&amp;A which we think is been performing quite well for us is a function of a couple of things.
You mentioned pricing that’s been a nice contributor for us.
We’ve done I think some very good work on upgrading the product offering and providing a more complete product delivering more content through our core research delivery platform moodys.com.
So I think that has driven lots of demand.
We’ve seen very good customer retention.
Linda mentioned that that was running in the mid-90s.
It’s as high as we’ve ever seen it.
So that’s helped us very well.
So I think just generally the business is doing quite well along all of those dimensions pricing coverage and the breadth of the product offering.
It’s just performing very well.
Honestly the underlying growth in the market is fairly limited.
We don’t have a lot of new entrants coming into the market.
So it’s not like we’re selling to lots of new customers.
But we are finding very good demand with the customers that we’ve got.
And we’re finding that they’ve got very good appetite as we’re able to deliver more content through the platform.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Bill.
I wanted to ask if you could give us some color on your bank clients specifically where they’re spending money where they’re not spending money and how that’s impacting your guidance? In terms of banks purchasing services from Moody’s Analytics or in the ratings side? The former.
Okay.
Sure I’ll turn this over to Mark in just a moment but it’s really going to touch on all three areas of the Moody’s Analytics business and has been a significant driver for the enterprise risk solutions component.
But Mark may want to give some more detail on that.
Yes that’s exactly right Bill.
Banks represent a very sizable share of our overall customer base.
And we’ve seen very good demand from that customer set again going to some of the things that I mentioned a moment ago in the RD&amp;A area in response to Andre’s question.
But also Ray mentioned the enterprise risk solutions.
All of the work that banks are doing to meet regulatory requirements whether that be Basel III requirements outside the United States or stress testing requirements in the U.S.
there has been very very healthy demand from those customers.
We can do in a lot of work.
We’ve been getting very good traction in that area and we continue to be very optimistic about the outlook for demand for our product offering across the product portfolio.
Okay.
And I also want to ask for your thoughts on issuance trends as you’re seeing in the U.S.
and Europe and Asia? Sure.
I think it was pretty apparent that there was a difference in the first quarter between what was happening in investment grade and speculative grade bond issuance.
Lot more strength in the investment grade sector.
Speculative grade was soft really globally.
So it hit us in the U.S.
and Europe in particular because those are our largest markets for spec rate but it was also a factor elsewhere around the world.
So we were soft on the spec rate.
That was offset though by the strength in the bank loan area.
And the demand for an increase in ratings in bank loans was very beneficial for us.
And I expect we’re going to continue to see that both in terms of demand for variable rate product like bank loans and the demand for ratings in that sector.
I guess the last thing I would add to this is that we also benefited from growth in monitoring fees.
And those monitoring fees are growing along with the new rating mandates.
And you’ll recall that in 2013 we had a very healthy growth in new rating mandates globally.
A lot of those were spec rate issuers.
And so we even though spec rate activity was lower we were gaining from those new relationships in the monitoring fees rather than the bond issuance fees.
Linda I don’t know if had anything you wanted to add to that but.
Sure Bill.
If you want to look at U.S.
trends thinking first about investment grade long-dated U.S.
corporate bonds were the best returning asset in the first quarter at 7.75% despite some very negative initial outlooks on the investment grades sector at the beginning of the year.
Issuance for the year for the first quarter in U.S.
has been about $300 billion which was up 10% year-over-year.
We’re still looking at sort of flattish for the whole year.
Fund flows have continued to be positive into investment grades.
And we would hope to see some shifting of proceeds towards M&amp;A or CapEx.
We haven’t fully seen that yet.
Year-to-date issuance has been about financials.
And the three to five year part of the curve has been the largest share of issuance.
Investor demand is also very high there.
Shorter duration because the concerns about the rising rate environments.
Now if we had to split it into headwinds and tailwinds.
Headwinds would be potentially slowing work in China reduced signals from the Fed escalation of Ukraine and Russia situation.
Tailwinds would be that rates remain new record low 10-year at 2.64% this morning good investor demand and again the asset classes performing well.
We’ve had some good strength in Europe as well.
The current pipeline is a little bit on the lighter side because of earnings blackout that we’re expecting pickup on that in May.
And then the spec grade side as Ray said we do see an offset of high yield bonds by leveraged loan.
Leveraged loan fund inflow continues to be strong and we continue to see that trend for a very long time.
The main drivers of the loan market have continued to be refinancing but last week we saw some pickup on the leverage side in M&amp;A.
79% of loans syndicated last week were earmarked for acquisitions.
So that’s an interesting trend.
We’ll see if that holds.
And we’re seeing M&amp;A activity at about 37% of the calendar going forward and 59% of the combined and announced calendar.
So again let’s see what happens.
Yields continue to be helpful.
CLO issuance is also healthy.
But again that is not such an high yield market for straight bonds.
And we continue to see that that is a little bit weaker $75 billion of issuance versus a $100 billion last year.
So I think those are some of the overall trends in what we’re seeing in terms of the strength and weakness in various markets.
Any other details you might need? Very helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we’ll go next to Peter Appert with Piper Jaffrey.
Hi Linda actually I need one more detail please and that is the – we saw that mega deal this week or last week I can’t remember where the international yield markets [ph].
Can you read anything into that in terms of maybe using up the logjam in the high-yield markets? I think we’re now going to have Michel comment on that.
Michel any thoughts on whether that is a trend starter? Well I think it’s been viewed as really something that is a bit of a game changer in terms of the scale and the size of the deal and the opportunity creates for funding of large transactions in Europe and in some other market.
So from that perspective I think that was a very welcome event.
And you’ve seen it’s been a very successful deal however described and good condition.
So I would clarify that as a positive sign.
But no indication that the backlog is specifically picking up in the context of their early favorable results.
Well it is an M&amp;A.
This is an M&amp;A driven transaction.
So you’ve seen there is a number of – this is obviously something that tends to be variable driven.
And to the extent that we see more M&amp;A activities what they mean is that we’ll see more of those transactions but again we view that as a positive development for the market.
Great.
Understood.
And Peter I would just add that with the ability of potential M&amp;A transactors to see the degree of market appetite for these larger deals you have to put that in the positive category.
Right absolutely.
And then I wanted to if I could ask Mark a question.
Mark I’ll need a day things called fairly.
You saw year-over-year improvement in the analytics margins in the current quarter and the numbers have been drifting lower over the last couple of years.
I’m wondering Mark you would call that a trend? Are we plan we were going to start to see some leverage from the investments we made in the last couple of years? Well our goal is certainly to move the business to higher margins overtime and we’re doing an enormous amount of work to get us there.
I just caution you a little bit Peter on the timing of that.
I think for us to get to the margins that we’re aiming for.
We’ve still got a lot of work to do.
And we’ve got to build more scale into the business and also we’ve got to make number of our product offerings particularly in enterprise risk solutions more scalable and more easily configurable and replicable from customer to customer.
So there is a fair amount of work going on there.
So again that’s clearly our objective.
We’re very focused on that but I’d be real love them to declare victory on that just on the basis of what you’ve seen in this quarter.
I actually got – the first quarter was interesting because it’s with dilution from Amba correct? What was the impact of Amba on the margins? Peter I’m not sure we’re going to break out the impact of Amba on the margin other than we said that the Copal Amba Group has Moody’s like growth rates and Moody’s like margins.
So you might want to do a little reverse engineering there but I’m not sure we’re going to go into that specifically.
So Amba theoretically was accretive to the margins.
So I guess Mark the message is that it’s really about the risk software business in terms of where the margin leverage is going to come in? Absolutely.
And again there is a whole program of activity in that line of business to get us there but that program is a program that’s going to start that meaningful impact on the bottom line over a period of years rather than quarters.
Okay.
And then just quick last thing.
Linda should you assume the share repurchases are relatively even through the year? Yes Peter.
We do adjust bits of what we’ve seen from market conditions couple of comments there.
We do have heavy issuance of shares in the first quarter that’s when we primarily do the issuance for our previous year compensation plans.
So that is particularly heavy in the first quarter.
And as we move through the year we’re pretty well balanced out.
I would say that for the number of trading days we’ve had in the year we would note that to this point we are on pace to achieve our $1 billion for the year.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Hamzah Mazari with Credit Suisse.
Hi this is Flavio.
I am standing in for Hamzah today.
Thank you for taking my question.
I just wanted to turn back to costs a little bit very briefly.
I was just wondering when thinking about the leverage you can pull to reduce costs.
If there is any relationship between MIS and Copal in the sense of using Copal services in order to drive down costs of research? Is that something that you have looked into before? Flavio it’s Linda.
And Ray or Michel may want to comment on this.
We think we’re managing our costs pretty well while making the required investments in the business.
As you can see this quarter we’ve had some particularly strong results from Moody’s Analytics but we’ve always felt Moody’s Analytics has been a little bit under in terms of its performance.
So we are watching our costs pretty carefully but we do want to make sure we make those strategic investments to keep these businesses growing at the pace that they have been growing.
For the Moody’s shared services side we do use the Copal Amba Group.
We have about 100 people that we’re using for shared services.
And most of the increases in our headcount for shared services would be offshore at this point.
So the whole company is making use of those assets particularly in Moody’s shared services.
So we have had tremendous margin expansion year-over-year.
We are also guiding to 50 to 150 basis points of further margin expansion this year.
So we like where we are and we’re particularly cautious about the rating agency and how we handle operations in the rating agencies.
So with that preamble I’ll let Ray and Michel perhaps add any comments if they want to.
Michel anything you’d like to add to that? No I would say that we are effectively looking at the options that the acquisition of Amba and the addition of Copal are bringing to us.
We already are using outsourcing to some extent but there are opportunities and we’re working on that.
Perfect.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you for the color.
And just as a quick follow-up.
When we were talking about leveraged loans making up for some of the are withdrawn to gain a higher issuance.
And we know that loans have – rating of loans have lower margins.
Should we look this as also the opportunity of rating goes else when comeback at CLOs and those are additional revenues and a much higher margin.
And if you look at leveraged loans combined with the potential for the CLOs.
Is that enough to offset the mix of lower high yield and more loans that come first? Flavio it’s Linda.
Before we get into the next issue one of our jobs here is to correct the urban myth.
And that is an urban myth.
In fact leveraged loan pricing speculative grade pricing in general is helpful to us.
And that’s one that’s favorable to investment grade pricing.
So you should not make that assumption that margins are lower on leveraged loans.
So please make that change.
And in terms of mix we do like leveraged loans because we rate them and then as you said we are able to rate them again if they are packaged into CLOs but I may have missed a little bit of the color for your two year back to your comment and I’ll ask Ray if he wanted to add anything.
No I think Linda’s correction on the profitability of the two different areas is important but otherwise your observation is correct Flavio about the fact that these loans at least have the potential for being repackaged into additional securities.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we’ll go next to William Bird with FBR.
Hi Bill.
On your guidance maybe you can speak to what accounts for the just slight downward tweak to your corporate finance revenue outlook.
Then I have a follow-up? Sure.
There are a couple of things.
I would say the first is that the market – I would observe that the market has not changed in the direction that I think the consensus view was earlier in the year in terms of higher interest rates characterized by stronger global economic momentum.
In fact we’re seeing something of the opposite.
Now that’s good for refinancing but refinancing has really been the driver for the last few years.
And so while the refi part of that market continues it’s difficult for us to project that as being a source of strong growth in the corporate sector at this point.
So what we’re really looking at is whether these other drivers M&amp;A and capital expenditure are going to take on a more prominent role and we’ll see.
There is some reason to be optimistic about what’s going on in M&amp;A but that’s pretty recent.
So as I said in some previous calls I hope we’re being cautious on that but we’ll see.
The other two things I would just point to are we have seen some slower growth in Asia.
And the geopolitical uncertainty coming out of Russia and Ukraine is not helpful.
So again we factor that into our outlook.
And maybe you could just speak to Europe.
How would you characterize the state of your business right now in Europe? Well I will invite my colleagues to make some comments but I think the business in Europe is quite healthy.
The regulatory situation in Europe has been somewhat challenging as we’ve talked about on previous calls but there has been increased stability in Europe and that is encouraging and stability in the public sector and that is encouraging for increasing confidence in the private sector and encouraging business activity and borrowing in the private sector.
So for the outlook that stability is clearly a precursor to better activity and we’re going to have to see whether the economic momentum picks up on the European side.
Michel or Mark just start with Michel just from a capital markets perspective see if there is anything you wanted to add.
I mean the unfun way I would add is something – forwarding previous calls is really that in Europe the size continue to benefit from business disintermediation and that’s really a very important favorable development for us but that’s the only point I would make.
I have a final question.
Just given just a spike in your revenue growth in MIS in the year ago quarter is it reasonable to think MIS revenues could be down in Q2? Well I mean it’s certainly possible but we do think we’re going to be able to point on the board in Q2.
So our central case is for growth.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Great.
Thank you.
First question can you just comment a little bit further on what you’re seeing on the ratings business over in Asia? Yes.
I mean I think we have to separate cyclical from secular.
I think the long-term story in Asia it’s very positive.
And I think we feel that we are well positioned in the key Asian markets whether it’s through our own offices or through joint ventures or investments in places like Korea China and India.
Cyclically we’ve seen some softness and few markets in Asia was weak.
And really because of among other things that the downturn in speculative grade issuance globally.
We also saw some weakness in the Asian market on the spec grades side.
So I think we’re going to continue to be dealing with some of these short-term issues in Asia but the long-term story is it’s something we’re very enthusiastic about.
My second question please.
Your non-transaction revenues within the ratings business had a very strong quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
Can you just touch upon what’s been driving that? Sure.
I mean the growth in the monitoring fees is probably I think the most important driver there.
We do have some growth in program relationships large frequent issuers that are paying annual fees.
And that’s certainly helpful.
But the growth in new rating mandates that we’ve been picking up over the last couple of years and the fact that those rating relationships trends translate into annual monitoring fees has been a big pick-up for us.
Craig it’s Linda.
Before I get into the usual conversation that you and I had having spent a better part of the last three weeks in Asia and Michel may want to comment on this further we’re continued to be pleased in what we’re seeing regarding our business in China both domestic with CCXI and cross-border.
I think our China compendium says we have about 140 cross-border rated companies now coming out of China.
And I think if I’ve got my memory stats we’re adding about 30 of those per year.
They start off in our CCXI business of domestic issuers and then it’s growing size and scale.
They become cross-border issuers as they move over to our MIS business.
On part of both MIS and Moody’s Analytics.
And so that part shared services as well we are investing in China.
It is a growth area for us and we have an effort [ph] to make sure that we have our greater China strategy correct.
And that was supported in the growth particularly in that part of the region.
And before we go onto other things maybe I’ll pause for a minute and just see if Michel and Mark want to comment a little bit further on China specifically.
Michel anything from your… No I think you’ve pretty much covered it.
Okay.
Mark? Please go ahead.
And I guess we would also note Craig that we are tendering for the 55% ownership of our ICRA business in India.
Those who are reading carefully page 12 of the balance sheet you’ll see an item on there which is restricted cash which is cash by regulation we have to set aside for that tender which is for everyone’s information going through its usual regulatory review processes and we will update as we have something further to say if that opens and then move along.
So just wanted to make sure everybody is aware of that that’s going on but that would be another indication of our investments in our business in Asia.
So with those commercials Craig what else can we do for you? So typically like to ask you Linda if you can just breakdown percentage basis in dollars if you would high yield versus bank loans versus investment grade with the corporate finance and then ultimately the three main sub-segments? Sure.
I will start with corporate finance for you Craig.
As we’ve said $264 million for this quarter.
That’s up from $258 million last year.
The percentage breakdown investment grade was 18% of revenues which is about flat to last year.
Spec grade high yields bonds down to $52.9 million.
That’s 20% of the corporate finance line versus last year’s 29%.
Bank loans the opposite.
We’re up to about $67 million which is 25% of the corporate finance revenue versus 22% last year.
And again those lines offset each other.
And other accounts as you had noted correctly Craig that line has moved up to $97 million from $82 million and that’s 37% of the total.
Again it’s important to call out that globally across all of Moody’s investment grade of revenues represent only 7% of Moody’s corporate revenues.
And that’s just something that we think sometimes is not fully appreciated.
And we do also see an over focus on the U.S.
So it’s important that these trends are looked at on a global basis and that’s spec grade and investment grade are considered in total.
We go into SFG Craig.
First of all the total for structured was $95 million up from $93 million last year.
ADS about flat at 24% of revenue so up $23 million.
RMBS also about flat at $18 million.
That’s 19% of revenues about the same the last year.
Commercial real estate at 31% versus 28% last year.
Up to $29 million this year.
And structured credit which includes CLOs $25 million that’s 26% of the structured revenue line versus 29% at the same time last year.
Moving onto FIG $85 million revenue for the first quarter of this year.
And banking constituted 67% of that $57 million.
Insurance constituted 25% $21 million.
And managed investments up to 8% $6.6 million which is up from last year’s 4%.
And then lastly public project and infrastructure $80 million for the quarter.
And as Ray had talked about public finance and sovereign $37 million down from last year’s $42 million about 46% of the PPIF line.
UNIF [ph] $3.8 million which is 5% the same as last year.
And then project and infrastructure $40 million was up from last year and that’s 49% of revenues.
Again we’ve talked about we’ve seen project and infrastructure being one of the beneficiaries of the disintermediation that Michel spoke about.
We’re seeing that a number of these deals are coming to the bond markets in project and infrastructure finance which previously would have been funded by banks.
So that’s an helpful trend.
So I think that’s it Craig.
If we’ve got everything you need.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll go next to Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Hi.
My first question here is how should we think about the impacts from the Ukraine? What has built into guidance from an outlook in that region and how do you kind of risk adjust the numbers for that? Well it’s difficult.
It’s fairly easy for us to look at our business in Russia.
And that is modest.
So that is not a large driver of any change in outlook.
But beyond that geopolitical tensions are always difficult to address in an outlook simply because there is the direct consequence of tension and how widespread that is.
And then there is the collateral impact on business confidence and willingness to engage in business activity and focus on growth during periods of stress.
So we’ve factored that into our modest reduction in outlook for the corporate finance area.
And beyond that we’re really just going to have to comment as views change depending on what happens on the ground.
And Joe as usual to take the other side of that for you.
The flight-to-quality in the U.S.
Treasury has made them a very strong returning asset class for the first quarter as well.
It’s about the same 7.75% that I mentioned for long duration corporate bonds.
So the flight-to-quality is just the price of U.S.
Treasury and has resulted in the 10-year remaining at 2.64%.
We’ve been happily surprised to the 10-year under 2.7% which I think is perhaps a bit different than many pundits have been calling for to this point of the year.
So a bit of a mixed bag for us in terms of how it affects our business.
And I hope that gives you kind of both sides of the story for how think about that.
Yes that’s definitely helpful.
On the Analytics business obviously there is a positive uptick there.
How sustainable is that step-up in the business? Should we think of this as accelerating or is there a reason to be maybe a little bit more modest in our thoughts regarding it? Mark do you want to address? Sure.
I think that I would characterize it as pretty much in line with our expectations to be honest.
We had a good quarter.
Organically we were at 10% which we feel very good about but we’ve always thought of this business as a high-single-digit growth kind of business.
So we didn’t – while we’re very pleased with the quarter we didn’t feel like the quarter was wildly outlined with our expectations.
So again try to make sure you understand 10% organic 15% with the acquisitions.
Again we would urge everybody to take another look at Moody’s Analytics and what it’s able to do.
And as we said earlier regarding the fact that one of our major customers are banks and they are looking to use a lot of our services.
We have done very well in the Moody’s Analytics in the first quarter.
All right.
And then just the last one for me just kind of general question.
How should we think about issuance versus rising interest rates environment? Is there any sort of rule of thumb that you could provide as we look out on the year different commentary from the Fed and the changes in those rate? Is there a base level for this business and how do we kind of correlate those two? Yes we’ve listed this historically and in our investor presentation you would be able to see some of the historical data that we’ve been able to collect.
And long story short is we have had periods in the past of rising interest rates that did have a negative effect on the business in terms of lower or no growth but more recent periods we have been able to grow through rising interest rate environments.
I think the reasons for that includes the fact that we have a much more global business over the last 10 to 15 years than we did back in the early 1990s.
We have a much more substantial business in Moody’s Analytics which is not as susceptible to volatility based on movements in interest rates but that all being said I still go back to the kind of fundamental idea that in a rising rate environment assuming that that rate environment is rising because of economic strength there are going to be substantial bond market activity and borrowing for reasons unrelated to refinancing so for share repurchase and capital expenditure merging acquisitions.
Those are all important drivers of issuance in a stronger economic scenario.
And Joe it’s Linda.
I can recite this from memory.
In ‘93 to ‘94 interest rates went up 200 basis points over that year-long period.
And Moody’s revenue which as Ray said with much more U.S.
centric at that time barely dipped.
I believe it’s ‘97 to ‘98 interest rates went up 180 basis points and Moody’s revenue continued to trend up.
When we do our first quarter slide you’ll see revenues for the corporation up 5%.
I’d be surprised if overall global issuance has been up from the fourth quarter of last year.
It’s probably going to be flat to down.
So once again global issuance can be flat to down and our revenues move up.
So it’s very important that you understand that interest rates also continue to have trouble breaking above 3% in the 10-year.
We were able to see that in January.
We saw it in September but we have not seen the 10-year come back through 3% for any sort of sustained period of time.
And there is pieces in journal today that higher interest rates are causing some real issues in the housing market.
So again rates may move up but they’ve surprised us for being lower longer than perhaps we and a lot of market participants kind of expected.
So I think we’ll end our very long comment there.
Thanks.
And we’ll go to Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Yes Ray just on the legal front.
It seem like there were some developments in the CalFirst case in the first quarter.
Can you just bring us up-to-date on kind of what inning that’s in and what’s the next step? Thank you.
Sure.
You’ll recall that we had filed an appeal in California seeking reversal of the lower court decision denying our motion to dismiss the case under this what’s called the anti<i>-</i>SLAPP statute in California.
And there was oral argument on that in early April.
I think it was April 9.
And according to what I’ve been told are the rules in California a decision on that appeal and the oral argument would be expected within 90 days following that argument.
So nothing is going to move forward until there is a decision on that? Correct.
And as we’ve talked about before that is just one small piece of a much broader case that is still in many respects in very early stages.
Okay thanks.
And we’ll go next to Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Stephen Sheldon – William Blair.
Hi.
It’s Stephen Sheldon in for Tim.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But just in terms of headcount growth.
You’ve talked before about expecting roughly the same growth in 2014 as you saw in 2013 which I think was roughly 9%.
Any changes to that? And maybe just add some additional color on where you’re planning to add.
Sure.
What have you achieved? The headcount growth excluding Amba year-over-year has grown 10% here at Moody’s.
And a lot of that growth has been offshore in lower cross jurisdictions.
If you split it out the majority of the additions have been in the lines of business.
And we do expect probably 9% headcount growth this year.
And again a number of those – that growth will be offshore.
But again we’re driving 10% to 15% growth in Moody’s Analytics and we’ve been putting up double-digit growth on the revenue line.
And in order to support that it’s important that we are able to add headcount to support both the ratings and the Moody’s Analytics side.
So yes we would continue to expect 9% headcount growth.
But we’re judicious about where we’re adding those additional jobs.
Stephen Sheldon – William Blair.
Okay thanks.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Ray McDaniel for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
I want to thank everyone for joining us.
And I’d also like to remind you that Tuesday September 30 we’ll be hosting our Annual Investor Day at our headquarters here in Manhattan.
For more information on this go to the Investor Relations website as we get closer to the event.
And again thank you all for joining.
We’ll talk to you in July.
This conclude Moody’s’ First Quarter Earnings Call.
And as a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 3:30 P.M.
Eastern time on Moody’s’ website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody’s Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for questions and answers following the presentation.
I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody’s second quarter results for 2014 and our outlook for full year 2014.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Moody’s released its results for the second quarter of 2014 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Corporation will lead this morning’s conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody’s Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found towards the end of our earnings press release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2013 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's second quarter 2014 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
We have no legal and regulatory update to report therefore I will then conclude our comments with our outlook for 2014.
After our prepared remarks we'll be happy to respond to your questions.
Second quarter revenue of $874 million increased 16% over the second quarter of 2013 both Moody's Investor Service and Moody's Analytics delivered mid-teen percent revenue growth.
Operating expenses for the second quarter were $462 million a 14% increase from the second quarter of 2013.
Operating income for the second quarter was $412 million a 17% increase from the prior year period.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $434 million up 16% from the same period last year.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.48 for the second quarter increased 48% from $1 in the second quarter of 2013 and included a $103 million non-cash pre-tax gain resulting from Moody’s acquisition of a controlling interest in ICRA Limited a leading Indian credit rating agency.
On June 26 2014 Moody’s increased its stake ICRA from 28.5% to more than 50%.
U.S.
GAAP requires a re-measurement to fair value of non-controlling shares when a controlling interest is obtained.
As a result of the transaction Moody’s recorded a gain of $0.36 per share in the second quarter of 2014.
Non-GAAP EPS of $1.12 which excludes the ICRA gain increased 12% from $1 in the prior year period.
Turning to year-to-date performance revenue for the first six months of 2014 was $1.6 billion a 10% increase from the first six months of 2013.
Revenue of Moody’s investor service was $1.1 billion for the first six months of 2014 an increase of 8% from a year ago.
Moody’s analytics revenue for the first half of 2014 of $493 million was 15% higher than the prior year period.
Operating expenses for the first six months of 2014 were $896 million up 5% from 2013.
Operating income of $745 million increased 18% from $631 million in 2013.
Adjusted operating income was $790 million a 17% increase from the prior year period.
First half 2013 operating expenses operating margin and adjusted operating margin all include a first quarter litigation settlement charge.
Diluted earnings per share of $2.47 for the first six months of 2014 which included $0.36 related to the ICRA gain increased 35% from the prior year period which included a litigation settlement charge of $0.14.
Excluding the 2014 ICRA gain and the 2013 litigation settlement charge diluted earnings per share of $2.11 for the first six months of 2014 -- $2.11 for the first six months of 2013 grew 7% year-over-year.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I’ll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody’s total revenue for the quarter increased 16% to $874 million.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted revenue by 2%.
Second quarter U.S.
revenue increased 13% to $461 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 19% to $412 million and represented 47% of Moody’s total revenue for the quarter.
Global recurring revenue grew 12% to $412 million and represented 47% of total revenue down from 49% in the prior year period.
Looking now at each of our businesses starting with Moody’s Investor Service.
Total MIS revenue for the quarter was $622 million up 16% from the prior year period.
U.S.
MIS revenue of $353 million increased 13% from the prior-year period.
MIS revenue generated outside the U.S.
of $269 million increased 20% and represented 43% of total ratings revenue.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted MIS revenue by 1%.
Moving to the lines of business for MIS.
First global corporate finance revenue in the second quarter increased 22% from the year ago period to $321 million primarily reflecting strong rated bank loan and speculative-grade bond issuance in both the U.S.
and Europe.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
corporate finance revenue was up 20% and 24% respectively.
Second global structured finance revenue for the second quarter was $111 million an increase of 14% from the prior-year period primarily reflecting increased ratings of CLOs in the U.S.
and Europe.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue increased 17% and 8% respectively against the prior year period.
Third global financial institutions revenue of $92 million increased 9% from the second quarter of 2013 despite an increase in the issuance activity from U.S.
banks U.S.
revenue declined 4% year-over-year due to a shift in issuance mix.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 19% against the prior year period as a result of increased issuance from banks across all regions.
Fourth global public and infrastructure finance revenue increased 6% year-over-year to $98 million.
U.S.
revenue was down 2% primarily due to continued weakness in public finance issuance which was partially offset by increased in structure issuance.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 21% from the prior year period reflecting increased infrastructure revenue across all regions as well as higher sovereign and sub-sovereign revenue in EMEA.
And turning now to Moody’s Analytics global revenue from Moody’s Analytics of $252 million was up 15% for the second quarter of 2013.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted EMEA revenue by 3%.
U.S.
revenue grew 14% year-over-year to $109 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $143 million increased by 16% from the prior year period and represented 57% of total Moody’s Analytics revenue.
More than 65% of revenue growth in the quarter was organic with the remainder coming from acquisition.
Moving to the lines of business for MA first global research data and analytics or RD&amp;A.
Revenue of $145 million increased 11% from the prior-year period driven by strong performance in credit research and content licensing.
RD&amp;A represented 57% of total MA revenue and our customer retention rate remained strong in the mid 90% range.
RD&amp;A’s U.S.
U.S.
revenue was up 9% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 13% as compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Second global Enterprise Risk Solutions or ERS revenue of $67 million grew 12% against the prior year period due to growth in subscription revenue and services revenue.
ERS U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue was up 13% and 11% respectively against the same period last year.
As we’ve noted in the past due to the variable nature of project timing and completion ERS revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Trailing twelve months revenue and sales for ERS have increased 8% and 15% respectively.
Finally global professional services grew 41% to $40 million primarily reflecting the December 2013 acquisition of Amba Investment Services.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue increased 67% and 33% respectively year-over-year.
Turning now to expenses Moody’s second quarter expenses increased 14% to $462 million compared to the second quarter of 2013.
This increase was primarily due to higher compensation and real-estate expense attributable to increased headcount increased incentive compensation and acquisition related costs.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted operating expenses by 1% for the quarter.
Moody’s reported operating margin for the quarter was 47.1% up 70 basis points from 46.4% in the second quarter of 2013.
Adjusted operating margin was 49.7% for the quarter up 20 basis points from 49.5% for the same period last year.
Moody’s effective tax rate for the quarter was 33.1% compared with 32.2% for the prior-year period.
And now I’ll provide an update on capital allocation.
During the second quarter of 2014 Moody’s repurchased 3.2 million shares at a total cost of $258 million or an average of $80.39 per share and issued 0.7 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plans.
Outstanding shares as of June 30 2014 were 211.2 million reflecting a 4% decline from a year earlier.
As of June 30 2014 Moody's had 1.3 billion of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program.
At quarter end Moody's had 2.1 billion of outstanding debt and 1 billion of additional debt capacity available under its revolving credit facility.
Total cash cash equivalents restricted cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $2 billion an increase of $308 million from a year earlier.
As of June 30 2014 approximately 69% of our cash holdings were maintained outside the U.S.
Free cash flow for the first half of 2014 of $419 million increased $68 million or 19% from the same period a year ago.
And finally on July 7 2014 Moody's issued a total of $750 million of debt including $450 million of five year note with a coupon of 2.75% and 300 million of 30 year notes with a coupon of 5.25%.
We intend to use the proceeds to redeem our senior unsecured notes during 2015 totaling $300 million as well as for general corporate purposes.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I'll conclude this morning's prepared comments by discussing the changes to our full year guidance for 2014.
Additional details on Moody's guidance are included in our second quarter 2014 earnings press release which can be found on Moody's Investor Relations website at ir.moodys.com.
Moody's outlook for 2014 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability business investment spending merger and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There is an important degree of uncertainties surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody's results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end-of-quarter exchange rates.
The company now expects full year 2014 revenue to grow in the low-double-digit percent range.
Full year 2014 operating expenses are now projected to increase in the high-single-digit percentage range.
These expenses now include costs related to our acquisitions of a majority stake in ICRA and of WebEquity as well as additional incentive compensations.
We now expect operating expenses to ramp between $80 million and $90 million from the first quarter to the fourth quarter of 2014.
Full year 2014 non-GAAP EPS guidance is in the range of $3.90 to $4.
Our non-GAAP EPS guidance now includes costs related to our acquisition of the majority stake in ICRA and of WebEquity and additional incentive compensation and financing costs associated with our July 2014 bond offering.
Global MIS revenue for the full year 2014 is now expected to increase in the high single-digit percent range.
Within the U.S.
MIS revenue is now expected to increase in the mid single-digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is expected to increase in the low-teens percent range.
Corporate finance revenue is now projected to grow in the low double-digit percent range.
Revenue from structured finance is now expected to grow approximately 10% financial institutions revenue is now expected to grow in the low single-digit percent range.
With regard to the Moody’s controlling stake in ICRA company will report ICRA’s operating results within Moody’s investor service on a three month lag beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014.
ICRA is expected to contribute approximately $12 million of revenue to MIS in the fourth quarter.
For Moody’s Analytics full year 2014 revenue is now expected to increase in the mid-teen percent range.
Including the acquisition of WebEquity revenue for enterprise risk solutions is now expected to grow in the mid-teens percent range.
Professional services revenue including Amba Investment Services is now projected to grow approximately 40%.
This concludes our prepared remarks and joining us for the question-and-answer session are Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investor Service; and Mark Almeida President of Moody’s Analytics.
We’ll be pleased to take any questions that you have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll take our first question from Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Yes thanks.
I guess just wanted to ask a little bit more about I guess the higher expenses you expect for this year.
How much of that can you help us break that down a little bit in terms of added incentive comp versus I guess any drag from upfront expenses related to ICRA and I guess how much dilution from WebEquity? I guess I'm trying to understand what how much that's offsetting what was better than expected performance this quarter and the impact on the full year guidance? Sure Tim it's Linda.
Let's first look at second quarter expense increase versus last year.
And for the second quarter our expenses were $57 million higher than last year up 14%.
And I'll give you the reasons for why that is.
The largest component of that is compensation increases and that was fell $42 million.
Compensation for new hires over the course of the year was about $15 million merit and stock based compensation for the staff we have was about $12 million and the expenses related to Amba acquisition we did last year were about $8 million.
Non-comp was about $15 million and that included acquisition some other expenses of about $6.5 million and some occupancy changes of $4.1 million.
As you may remember we have leased additional -- two additional floors and a third coming on line in this building here.
So that would be the reason for the higher expenses second quarter over second quarter.
And as we move to the end of the year we had said expenses were going to ramp about $55 million.
We’re adding another 30ish to that we said $80 million to $90 million expense ramp between the first quarter and the fourth quarter.
The additions would be the cost of the acquisitions at about $20 million we're thinking incentive comp to add about another $4 million and expenses that we're spending in the second half rather than what we thought were going to come in the first half were about 6ish.
So that adds about $30 million to the expense ramp in the second half.
Now just to be really clear under GAAP deal costs are expensed as they are incurred regardless of when or whether deals close.
So as we look at deals and when we incur deal expenses we expense those and we’ve included those.
And revenues come a little bit more slowly but that's U.S.
GAAP.
So we’re looking at three months lag on revenues for ICRA which as we disclosed in our table and the press release will give us about $12 million in the fourth quarter of this year for ICRA.
But also purchase accounting adds haircuts to revenue.
So we are in the position of recognizing the expenses right away and the revenues a little bit later.
Now on ICRA we are taking a three months lag because if ICRA reports on Indian GAAP and we've also always reported ICRA's results on a three months lag.
We have to convert those to U.S.
GAAP and it takes a quarter to do that transition.
And so we will see the ICRA revenues coming on in the fourth quarter.
But again we closed the deal on June 26th so you see the expenses and the web equity deals closed on July 17th.
So you can kind of think through what the acquisition costs mean there.
So generally we’re thinking it’s about 5ish cents for the deal activity and about $0.04 for the financing that we did.
Your call is to whether you want to think about that those our GAAP expenses so whether you want to think about those in the run rate or not.
So I hope that thoroughly answers everything that you’re interested in.
That’s great that’s very helpful.
I guess just one follow-up to make sure I understand it correctly.
On ICRA you’re talking about you read away or have to recognize the transaction or kind of upfront expenses but do you have to recognize the operating expense from ICRA right away or is that tied to when you start recognizing the revenue and that’s delayed by three months as well? That’s delayed by three months as well exactly.
What we were recognizing immediately were the transaction related costs.
Okay.
And then guys just on ERS I think trailing 12 months sales activity was up 9% last quarter and so up 15% this quarter so pretty healthy step up.
I don’t know if the comp got easier or I guess as you rolled forward a quarter or did you see a particular pick-up in sales activity that I should read into that? I’ll let Mark Almeida address that.
We had a very strong quarter on sales this past quarter.
And we had a number of very good transactions and we had one very very large transaction as well.
So it wasn’t a question of an easy comp so much it’s just very strong results in the quarter.
And just as we normally comment we expect to see quarterly volatility and that’s why as you have done we encourage looking at the 12 month period.
Okay.
And can you give any color on as a stress testing related type of work that you're winning with and I guess particularly you said there is one very large deal.
I guess what would -- can you give us any more color on what type of project that is? Stress testing continues to be good for us and we're doing a lot of business there and we have a healthy pipeline.
But just in the normal course business we're having a lot of continued success.
And the large transaction that we did really has nothing to do with stress testing it's just a very big project that a particular customer is undertaking and they selected us to take the lead on that project.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Hi.
With the change in the issuance business has your expectations for the overall environment particularly on the interest rate side changed at all? I know they’ve dipped down recently.
Do you expect them to be lower to exit this year or how should we think about the relationship there? Yes.
I know Linda has some detail on this but just as an introductory comment.
Yes rates have been lower than we were anticipating earlier in the year.
We think they are probably going to remain lower than we had expected through the second half.
But that there are number of factors relating to that including the flight-to-quality in respect of some of the geopolitical tensions that we're seeing.
So we're going to be paying close attention to what's happening not just with benchmark rates but also spreads.
And the good news is we continue to see low default rates and that's keeping spreads reasonably tight.
Linda I don't know if you wanted to add some commentary.
Sure Joe if you want to look at the U.S.
issuance trends I will talk about investments grade bonds and then high yield bonds and average loans just very quickly.
The second quarter obviously was very strong investment grade bond issuance and for the first half of the year in the U.S.
again we are running about 600 billion of issuance which was up about 10% year-over-year.
For the full year expecting 950 million or 1 billion of investment grade issuance in the U.S.
which will be about flat so June was very busy July slows down because of earnings blackouts and we think the technical backdrop remains positive M&amp;A activity is picking up and running at a pace that we haven’t seen since 2007.
And for corporate refinancing high coupon bonds remains very popular.
So we expect that the pipeline will come back to strength in August and September.
For high yields bonds we are running about 200 billion in the U.S.
which is about flat year-over-year and expecting little bit less than that in the back half of the year maybe 150 billion full year to be about 330 billion which is flat year-over-year.
A little bit about utility in June because the headlines and we do see that as Ray said rates remain attractive the pipeline is about average at this point for high yield bolds.
And in leverage loans about 270 billion for the first half of the year down 5%.
For the full year expecting about 425 billion which is also down 5% year-over-year.
Calendar is very active there and majority of that activity is related to M&amp;A issuance and we have seen for the first time from outflows from loans funds but that’s offset by very heavy issuance of collateralized loan obligations and issuance for the first half there has been $67 billion compared to $46 billion for the same time last year.
And the pipeline continues to be as I said above average due to that LBO and M&amp;A activity in leverage loan.
So bit of a mixed bag and the traditional sort of July earnings black out lag here but rates remain pretty attractive and as Ray said default levels are low.
Got it very helpful.
And then just you went through a very slow and also helpful discussion of cost and expenses and how they are looking for the going forward.
But are ICRA and WebEquity diluted margins in the short-term and do you expect to have them step up corporate average if that is so? I mean I understand that the expenses versus the revenues are a little bit mix in those businesses but I'm trying to get a feel of what exactly dilution is from them if any? And then how long you would take to get that can be average? The EPS impact for this year yes equity is a little bit dilutive.
You might recall that about $0.03 and WebEquity about $0.02 and again you might want to think about how you want to factor that in.
Okay.
And just so am I making the assumption that we're going to get them up to corporate average over a extended period of time? From a margin perspective first of all WebEquity is a small business.
It's a business we think is a nice fit but it is small and it will not be margin dilutive to Moody's Analytics.
ICRA while it is an attractive business does not have the same margin that Moody's Investor Service does.
So there will be a modest drag from ICRA but again it is a nicely profitable business.
Got it.
Okay.
Last question from me obviously some news out regarding the regulatory environment for your new competitors any update you can give on that or any thoughts that you think are appropriate.
Thank you.
Not much to say all we know is what has been discussed in the public markets.
So really nothing to add to what you would have already read.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you good morning.
Two quick questions first how much of the second quarter reported revenue growth in corporate finance was driven by more of the volume growth and high yield in investment grades which we can observe versus other things that are a little bit harder for us to see publicly like pricing or new customers or additional revenue from other stuff like monitoring?  Yes.
I mean obviously volumes were strong in the second quarter.
But we also did have a pickup in other non-issuance related components of revenue that includes price.
It includes monitoring fees which relate to relationships that we have grown new rating relationships that we have grown in the prior year and earlier in this year.
And the pipeline of new rating relationships has remained strong both in the U.S.
and in Europe this year.
So it's a multi fast did growth story for the corporate sector.
Andre it's Linda.
The specifics on the corporate finance area investment grade revenue was $63 million which is 20% of the whole line and that was up 5% from last year.
Third grade bonds $77 million with 244% of the total corporate line.
That was up 36% from last year's 57 million.
Bank loans about $76 million from last year's $53 million represents about 24% of the total line and that’s up 43% from last year.
And other accounts about $105 million up from $93 million last year that’s 33% of the total line and up 13% from last year.
What we see here is a pretty wide hot speculative grade market and as we go into the second half we’ve tone that down a touch because this is really remarkable speculative grade issuance.
And we expect that favorable conditions will continue but we will take to this degree and this strong we have to think about that a little bit for the back half of the year.
And I don’t know if Ray or Michel would like to comment further on that.
No the only comment I would add is just reinforcing Linda’s remarks.
We don’t see anything on the horizon that looks like it’s going to have a chilling effective on the market but the likelihood that it’s going to remain at the pace we saw in the second quarter in spec rate.
We don’t think that’s the central case.
Michel if you have anything to add please do? No nothing to add Ray.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And a quick follow-up a little bit longer-term.
We have run some numbers on some of representative U.S.
companies and see that leverage ratios as measured by net debt to EBITDA kind of at the lowest level in about 15 years.
I guess as you talked to CEO customers do you feel like we will likely remain and more of a structurally lower then for leverage going forward or could we potentially be at something like a cyclical trough where all the risk erosion and political issues could go away and as the economy improves we can actually see people meaningfully adding leverage again? Yes.
I mean certainly I think what we’re seeing from a geopolitical standpoint REITs caution.
But beyond that looking longer term and assuming that is resolved in some non-catastrophic way.
Look we look primarily I think to economic momentum around the world and the business confidence associated with the strong economic momentum and what that does for borrowing for M&amp;A and capital expenditure as oppose to the refinancing that we've been seeing.
So that's if there is a re-leveraging I think it's going to come off of greater global business confidence.
Yes Andre it's Linda.
We saw pretty strong durable good number this morning which is encouraging.
The CapEx picture has been mix though it has strengthened a bit but it's very sector specific.
So we probably peaked in terms of CapEx additions for the natural resources industry that commodity prices have come up.
But for other industries there sort of looking to increase their CapEx spending.
So overall it's moved a bit but perhaps not as robustly as it could and we'll see it's a historical goods order number lease that up which would be helpful for us.
Thank you.
We'll go next to William Bird with FBR.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about Europe what kind of trends are you seeing? How is the pace of dissent remediation going? And then secondly could you talk about just your plans for deploying the access 450 million that you raised in July? Thank you.
Right.
Michel would you like to comment on what you're seeing in Europe.
Yes.
Well I think we continue to see the trends we describe in prior quarters.
Dissent remediation continue to run through we see new issues coming to market we see high level of activity across the board basically and specially around high yield basically and also bank loans which is really the speculative way segment of the marketplace.
So nothing is putting that in question as you know that ECB is launching a program of targeted LTRO program which will provide liquidity to banks that are lending to the market place.
So that will provide some more lending capacity of the part of the banks but we don’t expect that to really derail that momentum.
Thanks Michel.
And Bill it’s Linda.
You are right we did a $750 million bond deals while back and $300 million of that we are looking to redeem a private placement 10 year piece of paper that comes due in 2015 with a 4.98 coupon on that.
So once we do that the rest the remaining 450 will be used for general corporate purposes the usual stuffs working capital CapEx acquisitions repayment of other debt and share repo.
Interestingly on the deal that we did we had a 5 year piece and a 30 piece we were trying to access markets and investor that we hadn’t been able to achieve before.
The deal was massively oversubscribed.
And we were able to tighten the pricing.
We were very very pleased about that and pleased that we were able to access the debt markets at rates which has been very attractive for us.
So we are just doing some management here in terms of how we are handing and in fact as compared to one of our competitors maybe even a 100 basis points tighter.
So we are pleased with how all that’s going.
And Linda could you give us the actual number on the incentive comp accrual in the quarter?  Yes hang on just one second Bill while we find that.
So incentive compensation for the second quarter was $44 million up from $34 million last year so about $10 million increase.
Stock-based compensation moved up as well $20 million versus $16 last year or $4 million heavier.
And salaries and benefits were $238 million versus $210 million last year which is $28 million heavier or 13% higher.
So that's the incentive compensation view.
And we’ve been asked a lot about that incentive compensation.
The main driver of incentive compensation is really operating income.
Keep in mind operating income was up 17%.
So if we are able to put up good operating income we do increase our incentive compensation pool.
Note that we do not get paid incentive compensation on that ICRA gain that is not included we have to have real results in order for us to have the incentive compensation pool move up.
So for the rest of the year because we probably get that question we had asked people to look at maybe $35 million a quarter for incentive compensation.
And it's probably better if you pump that up to more like $40 million per quarter for the rest of the year.
Does that help? Great.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
We’ll go next to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Yes hi.
Just one clarification on all the cost detail that you gave out.
So the $0.05 impact from the deal cost and then the $0.04 from the financing that was just for the second quarter and then for the remainder of the year call it another $0.06 from the acquisition cost.
Did I get that right? The $0.05 and the $0.04 are built into our full year outlook of $3.90 to $4.
Okay fine.
That's great.
And then Linda like you talked about different components in corporate finance just in structured finance can you just talk about the CLO market I guess seems like what's driving most of the growth and how that breaks out in just some commentary there?  Yes sure.
I’ll go ahead and do the other two sectors after that as well because we usually get asked.
So let's start with structured.
So structured for the quarter is $110 million; asset backed securities about $244 million it was actually down a little bit from last year's second quarter about $25.5 million and after tax are about 22% of structured line.
RMBS about $20 million up from last year's about $19 million and about 18% of the line.
Commercial real-estate is at $30 million about flat to last year’s $30 million as well and that's 27% of the structured line.
And structured credit you are right about this Manav is $37 million that's 34% of the structured line; it's up from $22 million last year or about a 70% increase.
So structured credit CLOs have been very helpful to us on the structured finance line.
Would you let me just go ahead and go through FIG and… Yes sure.
Okay.
So FIG was $92 million for the quarter and that was up from $84 million last year.
So banking is about $64 million up from 57 last year it’s about 11% increase and banking close to 70% of the FIG line.
Insurance $24 million up from $23 million last year pretty flat it's about 26% of the whole FIG line and managing investments about $4 million pretty flattish from last year and that's only 5% of the big line.
PPIF we did $98 million in the second quarter and public finance and sovereigns about $40 million that’s actually down from last year’s $43.5 million.
And PFG and sovereigns represents 41% of the PPIF line.
Structured munis $4.3 million exactly flat to last year and that’s 4% of the line.
And project and infrastructure add about $54 million up from last year’s $45 million it’s a 20% increase and that represents 55% of the PPIF line.
So you can see we had good growth particularly as we mentioned in the script in the project and infrastructure line.
The structured credit CLO line banks a little bit weaker than perhaps because of the nature of the issuance the big banks issuing and then we’ve talked about the very strong results in the spec grade lines in corporate.
Okay thanks a lot.
And then just one more on the cash balance the percentage held offshore ticked up nicely at least from what I had for the full year ‘13 clearly you guys are raising some debt in the U.S.
and so forth.
But just any thoughts around how you’re going manage that international cash? Sure.
Your observation is right.
For the second quarter we had about $600 million of cash in the U.S.
at the end of the second quarter which keep in mind was before we did the bond deal.
And internationally we had about a $1.4 billion $1.368 billion of international cash that’s 70%.
So we did the U.S.
bond deal of course to help our U.S.
cash position.
And we’ve run a little bit heavier in terms of cash being generated by the international part of the business.
So how will we manage it? We manage it to support international acquisition opportunity.
And we are happy with the balance that we have given that our business is about 50% outside the U.S.
So we are fine with the balance that we have and we have plenty of U.S.
cash to support our dividends and our share buybacks and liquidity needs that we have in U.S.
as well.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Sure.
We'll go next to Peter Appert with Piper Jaffrey.
Thanks.
So Linda just staying on structured finance for a sec.
I think this is the best quarter you guys have done for revenue perspective since the financial crisis.
I’m wondering if you guys read anything into this in terms of beyond CLOs or we have an inflection point in terms of life in the structured finance market.
Peter it's Ray I'll start.
We obviously were very pleased with structured for the quarter.
It is really being driven by the CLO market both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
We’ve seen growth in some other areas but that really is the dominant driver of growth in CLO and structured at this point.
The commercial real-estate sector has been pretty good but we still are not seeing a lot of activity in RMBS and covered bonds in Europe student loans some of the areas that we saw pre-financial crisis are still not showing much of a pulse.
So I think that’s going to moderate the rate of growth in structured finance although I think we are going to continue to see growth in that area.
But I would not anticipate any kind of explosive growth coming out of structured at this point.
Peter as I noted RMBS is actually been down year-over-year and I think it was noted in this morning’s economic results but new housing sales were down.
So we continue to see perhaps a weaker housing market than might we hope for.
Around the world though we do have governments starting to talk about the need to get the securitization market for housing for residential mortgaged backed securities functioning again and that is something that is those conversations have also taken place in Europe and perhaps Michel might want to comment a little bit on covered bonds which we also include in this line and RMBS potential in Europe as well.
Michel did you want to say a few words?  You are right I think there is a lot of discussion in Europe about restarting the securitization market trading the right condition to do the ECB the Bank of England and number of governments and policy makers are functioning on that.
The reality is that as Ray said it remains a very anemic market at the moment covered bond also is facing the challenge of the federal banks have very ample source of funding and actually ECB is adding to that.
So I think the politically and there is a lot of discussion around that but the dynamics of the markets remains behind what we have seen in the past and the CLO is similar to the U.S.
has been really the major driver of the improvement together with better activity in RMBS actually in Europe.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks Michel.
And Linda can you remind me the relative profitability of the different asset classes for you guys I think the impression in the market is that high yield issuance is generally going to be more profitable for you probably structured financed as well.
So I'm wondering if some of your conservatism and with regard to the second half guidance like the function of just this mix issue and an expectation of weaker trends and high yield.
Peter we price a little bit higher for speculative grade ratings and that's because that is a tremendous amount of credit work required in bringing those ratings to the market.
So whether it's more profitable is a different question and we try to run profitability pretty similarly across all of our business months.
So I'm not sure it's much more profitable.
Structured finance is not more profitable that's bit of an urban myth we've had it in place for many years here at Moody's.
So I think the issue in the back half of the year and I'll let Ray comment on this it's just really what we are thinking about regarding speculative grade activity.
And as we said we've taken guidance up but on the spec rate front we had a white hot second quarter and we're cautious as we're usually cautious about whether that pace can continue.
And I'll let Ray correct….
No the only thing I would add is which I think you already know Peter.
Our structured business and the spec rate business are more transaction based business as opposed to recurring revenue businesses.
So we are we do enjoy the benefit of high volume periods but there is a bit more volatility when issuance activity slows.
We see much less of that in investment grade in financial institutions but it is the characteristic of the spec rate and structured market.
That's helpful.
Thanks very much.
We'll go to next to Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Yes hi there guys.
Few questions I guess first your total headcount of your company what is it today and what percent of that's up from a year ago?  Sure the answer excluding the acquisition Craig is that headcount is up 10% year-over-year and if you include the acquisitions I think we've got in the press release where we're running approximately 9 500 people now.
Most of our acquisitions have been in the revenue generating businesses and we're being very careful in the share of services part of the business to ensure that we have our more routine functions in lower cost jurisdictions.
So headcount is up to about 9 500 with everything considered without the acquisitions we had about a 10% increase.
And secondly you gave a lot of detail on cost but I am just curious back in the second quarter were there any one time costs you can quantify for us during the quarter any deal related transaction costs could you may be quantify to stuff like that?  Craig we don't really want to get into that.
I think we had talked about looking forward there is sort of $0.05 there from acquisitions and deal cost and $0.04 from the financing costs.
We don't want to tell the analysts what to think if you want to think about that as the part of the run-rate please do that but we're very cautious to make sure that we give the GAAP numbers and give those first so that those are well understood.
So I don't think we want to get into particular sense associated with various deals.
Was there anything else Linda that you want to highlight other than this $0.05 and $0.04 that made you keep your full year EPS guidance the same?  I think that’s most of it Craig.
We will see where we get to or the next time I’ll be speaking you markets at Investor Day September 30th and we’ll take another look at that time but from a GAAP perspective we do have include these costs.
So again the analysts can choose a different path if that’s what they prefer to do.
Ray I don’t know if you have any color you want to add.
No.
Sorry a couple more if I could the WebEquity revenue so can you just quantify that for us for modeling purposes sort of small? Right.
I’ll turn it over to Mark I am not sure we’d disclosed that.
Yes.
We haven’t really talked about WebEquity in any detail because that wasn’t a second quarter event just closed last week.
And it is -- as I said before we like the company quite a bit we like its fit in Moody’s analytics and the position it gives us with the smaller U.S.
banks which has not been an area that we have been as involved as historically.
So their loan origination solutions for smaller bank is a very nice fit we think strategically but again it’s a small company.
So the materiality of the revenue is not there.
Craig one other thing that we should note on the run rate to the extent that we said expenses the estimated tax rate is 33% and in the first half of the year we ran a little bit lower.
So by math it’s going to potentially run a little bit higher in the back half of the year.
So in the first half of the year we had a resolution of some international tax matters and in the second half we are expecting somewhat higher rate absence any other of these individual resolved matters.
So we do expect for the tax rate to average 33% for the year.
But again it would run a little lower in the first half so that means by the map we would have to run then higher in the back half.
So make sure that you factor that in as well.
Also would ask you professional services.
What was the revenue growth there excluding the Amba transaction? It was almost entirely from the acquisition.
Okay.
I guess my last question if I could sneak this in.
Your main competitor S&amp;P always has been in the news a lot here last 48 hour with their wells notice.
I'm just curious Ray or Linda or the ones who answer this how often does a company like yours have to make significant methodology or criteria changes to tier ratings methodology that’s something that it seems we focus and with that S&amp;P right now I'm just curious if you just talk a little about that how often you’ve to make it the material way? I don't think there is a -- I mean we review our methodologies annually.
But there is not a schedule for changing methodologies.
And frankly that is really dependent on the ratings performance how well our ratings accuracy is being measured and external events.
If there are changes in regulation in some industry structure that dictates or review the methodology we obviously will do that.
But I don't even know what the pace of change in methodologies has been historically other than we review them regularly.
Just curious you suggest is it’s pretty rare do you have change the criteria methodologies? No I mean we've changed methodologies in some sectors this year and we did so last year as well.
And minor changes are more common than material changes but as I said really we are not trying to set a pace for change so much as making sure that we are responsive to what’s happening in the market and what we think is the ongoing quality of the methodologies that we are using.
Great thank you.
We will go next to Doug Arthur with Evercore.
Yes great.
Just one question clarification Ray.
On the $12 million that your second to recognize from ICRA in the fourth quarter is that in the revised MIS guidance or is that extraneous to that?  That is in the revised MIS guidance.
Okay great thank you.
We will go next to Patrick O'Shaughnessy with Raymond James.
Hey good morning.
So my first question is where do you think we are in terms of M&amp;A being a meaningful contributor to bond issuance? And I asked because although we have seen M&amp;A pickup the commentary from a lot of the advisory shops is we are seeing announcements right now but a lot of deal closings are late this year they are going to be 2015 events.
And so do you think there is still a lot more room to go in terms of bond issuance related to M&amp;A?  Yes I think there is potentially.
And I take your point that the announcements predate debt financing and so we are pretty optimistic about what we anticipate on the M&amp;A front and obviously we will keep our eye on that.
Linda I don’t know if you have anything else you wanted to add to that.
Yes.
That’s one of the factors Patrick that encourages us about the back half of the year and also next year as well.
If you look in our investor deck there is a chart in there that co-relates M&amp;A issuance to bond issuance which might help you out.
And as we said M&amp;A deals have been running at the fastest pace for the first half since 2007 it's been quite a strong surge.
And obviously companies are aware of low interest rate and also record high equity prices.
So that creates a really terrific deal environment.
And we've been talking about this now for quite a while but we are finally seeing it which is terrific.
But the point that you make that some of this financing will spill over into 2015 is correct.
And that will be helpful to us next year as well.
And then if you can remind me where does M&amp;A financing typically fall? I would imagine a lot of the sponsored financing is going to be high yield.
But the corporate M&amp;A is that mostly investment grade or is it a mix where is that historically fallen? You are correct that most sponsored deals are generally high yield deals and they can either fall in bank bond deals or loan deals.
Private equity firms can even kind of run it up to the day the financing the size what the balance is going to be between those two.
And for big corporate those probably would tend toward investment grade issuance.
You are right about that particularly the strategic as they are acquiring that would generally be investment grade financing.
I don’t know if Ray wants to add anything.
No I was just going to say the financials would tend towards the spec grade and the strategics would tend towards the investment grade.
Alright that's helpful.
Thank you.
And then lastly from me how is the tone of your interactions with the SEC been recently if you can provide any commentary there? And I asked because the SEC's [important] Director has made public comments about they might be more active with their oversight of rating agencies.
And just want to know is anything that you said has been reflected in some of the tone of your interactions with the SEC.
We as you would imagine we have frequent contact with the SEC staff through their inspection and review procedures the office of credit rating agencies.
I would characterize those interactions as being constructive.
There are things that the SEC expects us to do from a process standpoint from a reporting standpoint and we do everything we can to meet those expectations.
But I would not characterize the relationship as half stone in anyway I think it is constructive.
Alright great thank you.
We'll go next to Edward Atorino with Benchmark.
Could you review the numbers you gave on the bank loan ratings? That's a category that sort of exploded in recent years and what's now pretty good chunk of business.
Can you give me on the percent basis something like that year-to-year growth margins on the business?  Sure Ed I'll give you the growth we’re less interested in talking about margins.
But last year bank loans were $53 million of revenue for us and this year it's close to $76 million.
So it’s an increase of almost $23 million or 43%.
So you are right that line is a healthy contributor to our corporate finance business.
And as Ray said a lot of that is driven by merger and acquisition activities.
And we also note that because investors like floating rate paper right now given their concerns about potential interest rate increases bank loans are really where the action is primarily in the U.S.
but also to some degree in Europe.
So you are right.
Those are the high points.
Yes.
That Ed… I think banks big enough to do.
I would just underscore the comment that we are seeing strong activity in Europe in the bank loan area.
That is a line that in years past I would not have highlighted because it wasn’t large enough to be more exciting but it has come on very strongly and is a nice part of the corporate business now.
Is it totally separate or is it sort of displacing traditional issuance if you know what I mean? I think it’s really part of the disintermediation story…  Got you yes.
The rating on the bank loans makes it easier to syndicate and transfer those loans.
And so yes there is a trade-off between rated bank loans and bonds particularly spec rate bonds.
And as Linda said depending on appetites for fixed rate versus floating rate paper and the decisions about whether to enter the bond market or remain in a banking relationship by a corporate drives that mix over time.
You may have given this are they priced about the same as bonds or premium or discount in terms of your rate that you charge? Speculative grades area is priced a little bit higher Ed… So they went to speculative grade area yes got you.
For the most part yes.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
And we’ll go next to Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon everyone.
So a question for you.
Now that your operating margins have reached the mid 40s I think you’ve made some comments in the past about trade-off between investing that incremental profit going forward into revenue growth versus margin expansion if you could share your thoughts with us on that.
Sure.
I’ll take a crack it’s Linda then Ray to take a shot at it as well.
We are executing on margin expansion here at Moody's and as I read in the prepared remarks the operating margin for the first quarter was 47.1% that was up 70 basis points from last year's quarter 46.4%.
So again this is not a marketing campaign and not promises we are expanding our margin and 70 basis points so I would committed pretty healthy year-over-year.
We have said that over the mid to longer term we were looking to the end of low to mid-40s and we continue to be happy with that view we do want to invest back in our businesses as you can see our businesses are performing really well we're very please with the growth rates were putting up.
And our shareholders are 80% growth and they've told that they want top-line growth above everything else but we are able to have margin expansion as well.
But I think we feel pretty happy about this balance and our shareholders do as well from what we can see and Ray may have some other thoughts.
No just obviously it's going to be influenced by mix the pace of growth with Moody's Analytics versus Moody's Investor Service.
And the pace of growth inside the U.S.
versus outside the U.S.
particularly whether it's in develop markets or emerging markets.
But where we see opportunity for top-line we're going to go after that and we're still going to be prudent in managing the margin but we want the top-line growth.
Yes.
We'll talk a little bit more about this when we get to Investor Day quite frankly we haven't started our process yet to think about what if anything we might to say or change at Investor Day but potentially we can talk about that.
But we would note we're running this business very efficiently and we are very pleased with the progress we have been able to make on our margin line.
So I think that pretty much covers it.
So a question for you on Copal on the knowledge process outsourcing side can you just comment on what you are seeing for the pace of outsourcing at the U.S.
banks so that you are seeing that increase decrease stay the same?  Copal Amba has very nice margins and Moody’s like growth rate is what we have said in the past.
We feel that we are in the right place at the right time having very high end knowledge process outsourcing capabilities.
And I think it would be fair to say there is very active dialog going on with all of just about all of the U.S.
banks who are looking to cut cost.
You can see those stories everyday in the press and also looking to increase their return on equity.
So it is a terrific business for us to have but particularly at this point of the cycle I don’t see if Ray or Mark want to say anything else.
I think that about does it from my perspective.
Thank you very much appreciate it.
Sure.
And that will conclude our question-and-answer session I would like to turn the conference back over to Ray McDaniel for any closing or additional remarks.
Okay just quickly before we end the call I want to announce that we will host our annual investor day on Tuesday September 30th here in New York.
Attendance is by invitation only and the event will be webcast.
Further details will be provided on our Investor Relations website ir.moodys.com as get closer to the event.
So thank you for join the call today and we look forward to speaking to you again at investor day and then in October.
This concludes Moody's second quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 4 pm Eastern time on Moody’s website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody’s Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for questions and answers following the presentation.
I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody’s third quarter results for 2014 as well as our outlook for full year 2014.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Moody’s released its results for the third quarter of 2014 this morning.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel President and Chief Executive Officer of Moody’s Corporation will lead this morning’s conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Chief Financial Officer of Moody’s Corporation.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found towards the end of our earnings press release.
Today’s remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I will now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thanks Salli.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining today’s call.
I’ll begin by summarizing Moody’s third quarter 2014 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
I will then conclude with a few general updates and comments on our outlook for 2014.
After our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to respond to your questions.
Moody’s achieved strong growth in the third quarter with total revenue of $816 million an increase of 16% over the third quarter of 2013.
Record revenue growth in Moody’s Analytics and double-digit revenue growth in nearly every line of business contributed to our overall performance.
Operating expenses for the third quarter were $466 million a 13% increase from the third quarter of 2013.
Operating income for the third quarter was $350 million a 20% increase from the prior year period.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $373 million up 18% from the same period last year.
Operating margin for the third quarter of 42.9% was up from 41.3% in the third quarter of 2013.
Adjusted operating margin of 45.7% for the quarter was up from 44.6% the same period last year.
Diluted earnings per share of $1 for the quarter increased 20% from $0.83 in the third quarter of 2013.
Non-GAAP EPS of $0.97 which excluded a $0.03 benefit from the resolution of a legacy tax matter increased 17% from the third quarter of 2013.
Turning to year-to-date performance revenue for the first nine months of 2014 was $2.5 billion a 12% increase from the first nine months of 2013.
Revenue of Moody’s Investor Service was $1.7 billion an increase of 10% from a year ago.
Moody’s Analytics revenue for the first nine months of 2014 of $766 million was 17% higher than the prior year period.
Operating expenses for the first nine months of 2014 were $1.4 billion up 7% from the first nine months of 2013 which included a first quarter litigation settlement charge.
Operating income of $1.1 billion increased 19% from $923 million in 2013.
Adjusted operating income was $1.2 billion a 17% increase from the prior year period.
Operating margin for the first nine months of 2014 of 44.5% was up from 42.1% from the same period last year.
Adjusted operating margin of 47.3% was up from 45.3%.
Diluted earnings per share of $3.48 for the first nine months of 2014 increased 31% from $2.66 for the same period in 2013.
Non-GAAP EPS of $3.09 for the first nine months of 2014 grew 10% from $2.80 for the same period in 2013.
Year-to-date 2014 non-GAAP EPS excludes a $0.36 gain resulting from Moody’s acquisition of a controlling interest in ICRA Limited in the second quarter and the $0.03 legacy tax benefit in the third quarter.
Year-to-date 2013 non-GAAP EPS excludes the first quarter litigation settlement charge of $0.14.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I will begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody’s total revenue for the quarter increased 16% to $816 million.
The impact of foreign currency translation on revenue was negligible for the quarter.
Third quarter U.S.
revenue increased 15% to $449 million while revenue outside the U.S.
grew 17% to $367 million and represented 45% of Moody’s total revenue for the quarter.
Global recurring revenue grew 10% to $415 million and represented 51% of total revenue down from 53% in the prior year period.
Looking now at each of our businesses starting with Moody’s Investor Service total MIS revenue for the quarter was $543 million up 14% from the prior year period.
U.S.
MIS revenue of $329 million increased 13% from the third quarter of 2013.
MIS revenue generated outside the U.S.
of $214 million increased 14% and represented 39% of total ratings revenue.
The impact of foreign currency translation on MIS revenue was negligible.
Moving to the lines of business for MIS first global corporate finance revenue in the third quarter increased 12% from the year ago period to $261 million.
Despite a year-over-year decline in global non-finance corporate bond issuance volume and flat rated bank loan issuance volume Moody’s benefited from a greater number of smaller deals.
This favorable mix of bond and bank loan issuance as well as additional monitoring revenue associated with new ratings customers were the primary drivers of year-on-year revenue growth in the corporate finance line of business.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
corporate finance revenue were up 8% and 19% respectively.
Second global structured finance revenue for the third quarter was $102 million an increase of 22% from the prior year primarily reflecting increased rating activity for U.S.
collateralized loan obligations or CLO.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue increased 31% and 7% respectively against the prior year period.
Third global financial institutions revenue of $92 million increased 16% from the same quarter of 2013.
U.S.
revenue increased 9% primarily due to increased issuance by insurance companies.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 22% due to higher levels of bank issuance from China and Europe.
Fourth global public project and infrastructure finance revenue increased 7% year-over-year to $89 million.
U.S.
revenue increased 15% primarily due to increased rating activity in public finance and project finance.
Non-U.S.
revenue decreased 5% from the prior year period primarily due to lower infrastructure issuance in Europe And turning now to Moody’s Analytics global revenue for Moody’s Analytics of $273 million was up 20% from the third quarter of 2013.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted MA revenue by 2%.
U.S.
revenue grew by 19% year-over-year to $120 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $153 million increased 21% from the prior year period and represented 56% of total Moody’s Analytics revenue.
More than two-thirds of MA’s revenue growth in the quarter was organic with the remainder coming from acquisitions.
Moving to the lines of business for MA first global research data and analytics or RD&amp;A revenue of $147 million increased 10% from the prior year period driven by strong sales of credit research and content licensing.
RD&amp;A’s customer retention rate remained strong in the mid 90% range.
RD&amp;A U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue were up 6% and 14% respectively as compared to the third quarter of 2013.
RD&amp;A represented 54% of total MA revenue.
Second global Enterprise Risk Solutions or ERS revenue of $81 million grew 26% against the prior year period due to growth in revenue from subscriptions and services.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue were up 23% and 27% respectively against the same period last year.
Excluding WebEquity which we acquired in mid-July ERS revenue increased 21% from the prior year period.
Trailing 12-month revenue and sales for ERS increased 14% and 15% respectively.
As we have noted in the past due to the variable nature of project timing and completion ERS revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Finally global professional services revenue grew 54% to $45 million primarily reflecting the December 2013 acquisition of Amba Investment Services.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue increased 130% and 28% respectively year-over-year.
Turning now to expenses Moody’s third quarter expenses increased 13% to $466 million compared to the third quarter of 2013.
The increase was primarily due to higher compensation and real estate cost attributable to additional headcount as well as increased incentive compensation accruals.
The impact of foreign currency translation on operating expenses was negligible.
Moody’s reported operating margin for the quarter was 42.9% up 160 basis points from 41.3% in the third quarter of 2013.
Adjusted operating margin was 45.7% for the quarter up 110 basis points from 44.6% for the same period last year.
Moody’s effective tax rate for the quarter was 33.5% an increase from 29.1% for the prior year period primarily due to higher U.S.
and non-U.S.
taxes on foreign income as well as certain discrete items that reduced the effective tax rate in 2013.
Now I will provide an update on capital allocation.
During the third quarter of 2014 Moody’s repurchased 3.5 million shares at a total cost of $320.5 million or an average of $91.89 per share and issued 900 000 shares under our employee stock-based compensation plans.
The outstanding shares as of September 30 2014 were $208.6 million reflecting a 3% decline from the year earlier.
As of September 30 2014 Moody’s had 1 billion of share repurchase authority remaining under its current programs.
At quarter end Moody’s had $2.5 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under its revolving credit facility.
Total cash cash equivalents and short-term investments at quarter end were $2.1 billion an increase of $61 million from a year earlier.
As of September 30 2014 approximately 66% of our cash holdings were maintained outside the U.S.
Free cash flow for the first nine months of 2014 was $653 million increased $30.5 million or 5% from the same period a year ago.
And with that I will turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
First I would like to provide a brief recap of the regulatory update that we provided at Investor Day.
In the U.S.
in August the SEC voted to adopt its final rules for NRSROs as required by the Financial Reform Act.
The final rules closely track the proposed rules which had been published in 2011.
In anticipation of the final rules Moody’s has made substantial technology and other investments over the past several years.
Consequently we will be in a position to implement the relevant compliance obligations by the SEC’s deadlines.
Turning to Europe certain of the provisions of CRA3 are subject to further rulemaking.
The next round is expected to conclude by the first quarter of 2015 and will include certain reporting requirements and disclosure obligations.
On a separate note for the third year in a row Moody’s Investor Service was voted the best credit rating agency in the 2014 poll of U.S.
fixed income investors conducted by the well-known publisher Institutional Investor.
MIS was also again named Asia’s most influential credit rating agency in a similar poll conducted by the publisher FinanceAsia.
Moody’s Analytics was named the best regulatory capital calculation management provider and the best asset and liability management provider by Asia Risk Technology Rankings.
I appreciate the markets recognition of our efforts and I applaud the accomplishments of both the MIS and MA businesses.
Finally I would like to discuss the changes to our full year guidance for 2014.
The full list of Moody’s guidance was included in our third quarter 2014 earnings press release which can be found on the Moody’s Investor Relations website at ir.moodys.com.
Moody’s outlook for 2014 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates corporate profitability business investment spending merger and acquisition activity consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and if actual conditions differ Moody’s results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates.
Based on our strong year-to-date performance we are reaffirming our non-GAAP EPS guidance in the range of $3.95 to $4.05.
This range excludes the $0.36 gain resulting from Moody’s acquisition of a controlling interest in ICRA Limited in the second quarter and the $0.03 legacy tax benefit in the third quarter.
Additionally while global MIS revenue for the full year 2014 is still expected to increase in the high-single digit percent range non-U.S.
MIS revenue is now expected to increase approximately 10%.
Within MIS corporate finance is now expected to increase approximately 10%.
Structured finance is now expected to increase in the high-single digit percent range.
And lastly public project and infrastructure finance is now expected to grow in the mid-single digit percent range.
This concludes our prepared remarks and joining us for the question-and-answer session are Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investor Service and Mark Almeida President of Moody’s Analytics.
We are pleased to take any questions you may have.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Alex Kramm with UBS.
Hey good morning or hello everyone actually.
I wanted to just talk about the current business and what you are seeing out there I mean clearly with all the volatility in markets the issuance has slowed down a little bit in October.
So maybe you can talk a little bit more about what you are seeing out there where you talk to defs and obviously how that has impacted your guidance you obviously lowered a couple of items so are you feeling still very confident in making that guidance this year or does the current outlook concern you a little bit more here? Thanks.
Alex it’s Linda.
Let me talk a little bit about what we are hearing from various defs and then I will let Ray comment on his thoughts about that.
For investment grade we have had a very good settling of the market since last week.
Last week did see in the U.S.
reduced investment grade issuance of only $6 billion.
This week and I just checked before I came upstairs it’s probably going to be a $20 billion week a little bit better.
Next week looks to be the same or a little bit better.
What we are seeing now is that pipelines are robust.
The pipelines are quite strong.
We are expecting a heavy fourth quarter in investment grade because we have $100 billion of M&amp;A pipeline that needs to be financed before the end of the first quarter in 2015.
So investment grade looks like it stabilized and looks quite strong.
High yield did take a step back last week and had only one deal priced last week.
This week it’s been quite a good bit healthier though.
So I think we characterize state of the high yield markets as improving.
And we have seen some transactions that are looking ready to come next week so that’s good.
The pipeline would be viewed as average however.
And on leverage loans we also see an average pipeline and we do see perhaps $20 billion in leveraged loans for October.
So again that pipeline is looking a little bit on the average side as well.
So very good strength in investment grade a lot of backlog there and high yield and leverage loans looking more on the average side.
So with that I will let Ray translate that for you.
First of all I think we do feel pretty confident with our outlook for full year.
Certainly we are cognizant of the volatility that we have seen in the market recently.
Not surprising we have been dealing with this for quite a while and so there are periods where the market – the pipeline slows.
So it’s really not a question of the pipeline as much as it is whether that pipeline is pushing forward.
And as Linda described we see particular strength in investment grade and more average pipelines in the spec grade bond and loan areas so really just underscoring Linda’s comments.
Okay great.
And then maybe just as my follow-up here maybe a little bit more detail but on the recurring revenue in MIS that’s obviously been a nice stable driver and I think Linda you mentioned that in your prepared remarks this quarter I think 10% year-over-year growth.
More interesting though what I noted is that quarter-over-quarter so down from the second quarter recurring revenues actually declined a few million I think in corporate and structured.
So I think this was the first time we saw that in several years.
So I usually think about recurring revenues as kind of building on top of each other.
So maybe – was there anything particular that was going on this quarter or why would that be coming down? Thank you.
Sequentially Alex you are adding 500 if I can say that on CFG in the second quarter we had $82.4 million of relationship revenue and it was down to $80.7 in the third quarter in structured however we had $40.6 million and we are up to $41.5 million.
I wouldn’t take too much away from that quarter-over-quarter and I’d ask Michel to comment if you think there is anything of particular to note in that but we do have new rating mandates coming online.
And as we said as those come into our stock of monitored ratings they do add to that recurring revenue total but I don’t think there is anything particularly unusual going on quarter-over-quarter.
Michel anything you would like to add? No.
I mean I would say I was going to say the same thing really nothing to point to any sort of structural change and the positive momentum from additions to the portfolio continue and so no nothing to add.
There maybe a ForEx element here that you may want to comment on that Linda but….
The foreign exchange element was not material so that really wasn’t a driver but the trend we believe is going to continue to see increases in the recurring revenue.
And it really follows on from the new rating mandates that we are getting and that turns into monitoring fees in the forward years.
So we do expect the trend – upward trend to continue.
Okay fair enough.
Just I was stuck out a little bit to me but I appreciate it.
Thank you.
And we will move to our next question from Manav Patnaik from Barclays.
Hey good morning afternoon I guess.
The first question I had was I guess the two things that I guess supposed change from the Investor Day which is I guess the slightly more negative European outlook and then recently I guess we had those risk retention rules signed on the structured side.
I was just wondering if you guys had a view on those risk retention rules and how that might impact the structured business especially in the U.S.? Yes.
We obviously have been watching the risk retention rules and the fact that the various regulatory authorities approve those rules earlier in the week has caused quite a bit of commentary in the market in anticipation of what this may mean.
Certainly in the near-term we don’t see any significant impact.
There are periods 1 to 2 years before the risk retention rules become effective after they are published.
In the longer run we would anticipate that there will be at least some modest impacts.
The way the risk retention rules have been developed are going to affect different asset classes differently.
So for example we might anticipate some of the smaller CLO arrangers and issuers to be less active while the larger ones that have more capacity to deal with the risk retention would probably remain active.
The only other comment I would make on this because really I think there is a lot of uncertainty about exactly how the market is going to deal with these risk retention rules and how that markets reaction will evolve but to the extent that it decreases activity in certain parts of structured finance I would anticipate that’s going to increase activity in other parts of the market.
And so there is going to be an offset.
For example if there is some reduction in CLO activity we may see an increase in us high-yield bond activity.
So we will have to watch and see but we have got – we have got a fair amount of time before these rules become effective.
As far as the European outlook let me ask Michel if he would comment on that.
Thank you Ray.
Well in Europe I think we do see effectively a macroeconomic situation which is not – obviously not very favorable and that has an impact on some of the activities we see.
We as you may have seen from our guidance and our numbers some of the adjustments were made in Europe in CFG and structured finance.
So if there is clearly a slower pace and that is something we have seen last quarter and we anticipate to see in the next quarter.
Okay thanks.
And just one more on ERS I guess how much of the improvement on the top and bottom line I suppose was due to timing versus an actual acceleration in these underlying trends? Yes.
Mark you want to? Sure.
Well the top line was very much a function of timing.
We – a lot of the revenue we have recorded in the quarter was the result of our completing projects and recognizing the associated revenue.
So that was certainly an element of what was going on but it was a very strong quarter across the board across all of our product lines in our various delivery mechanisms in ERS.
We haven’t disclosed anything on the ERS bottom line.
So I am not sure that I have much I can offer you on that.
Alright thanks guys.
And we will move to our next question from Bill Bird with FBR.
Yes good morning.
Also on MA I am sorry if I missed it but what was the segment’s organic growth and was there anything unusual driving the higher profit pull-through on revenue growth in MA in the quarter? Thank you.
We – well the organic growth was about two-thirds of total growth.
So we reported we were up 20 – about two-thirds of that is organic.
So the organic number was very strong.
And the improvement in the margin I think is largely attributable to the contribution from of the Copal Amba business but – and I don’t think that reflects all that much frankly about the longer term efforts that we are making in Moody’s Analytics and in ERS specifically to drive margin.
That’s going to be a longer term effort that we will play out over a period of years.
And I would just add in terms of the organic growth that we had double-digit organic growth in each line of business within Moody’s Analytics.
So it was very strong performance across the board.
And then separately just to follow-on on Europe which is be curious of your perspective on the new ABS and covered bond purchasing program and how you see that impacting the European structured business? Yes I will offer a comment and if Michel wishes to add anything I will invite him to do so.
Really we don’t see it having a large impact on the market.
Yes I think it would have a more significant impact if the issue were around – if the issues were around liquidity and the availability of liquidity but that has not really been the principal issue.
I think it’s more of a supply demand issue.
And so while this is probably going to be helpful at the margin I don’t think it really gets to the heart of what’s causing the European structured market covered bond market to be soft.
And Michel if you have anything to amplify my comments please do? No not really.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Hi.
First sort of a big picture question we have seen I guess interest rates move down a little bit over the last couple of months.
How should we think about the relationship I know what part of this answer is going to be but how should we think about the relationship I know what part of this answer is going to be but how should we think about the relationship between interest rates and sort of what you are thinking about for a growth rate for next year.
In other words if they tick down should we be more encouraged for a growth rate or less and how should we think about that? Yes.
We have talked about this some before and my views at least have not fundamentally changed.
Certainly interest rates being as low as they are encourages more opportunistic financing pre-financing.
And it’s also encouraging I think the speculative grade market because of the reach for yield so lower quality credits that are offering higher yields are attractive.
But we really – I think we would actually benefit from seeing some more economic growth globally in terms of issuance activity and more issuance for capital expenditure.
We have seen a nice uptick in borrowing for mergers and acquisition activity and some of the temporary financing around M&amp;A should turn into more permanent financing in 2015 and that’s probably a positive.
But again the borrowing for business expansion capital expenditure is really not strong and the slowdown particularly in Europe but also some concerns about Asia I think is going to be – have an impact on whether we are going to get these other elements of issuance to be more active.
Joe its Linda just a couple of quick follow-ons as we started the call this morning the tenure in the U.S.
is about 2.25.
The Blue Chip Forecast for next year the median scenario was about 3.25 but there is also a strong view that perhaps the lower end of that forecast that has the tenure at about 2.8 might actually prevail.
But this sort of range is a bit of a sweet spot for us and as we said we see very strong investment grade pipelines.
And we just need a little bit of calm in order to have better conditions in high yield and leverage loan markets.
So U.S.
treasuries still are a much higher yielding security than European bonds at this point.
And we think that that demand for U.S.
treasuries is going to in that immediate term keep interest rates relatively close to where they are.
So we think that presents quite a reasonable outlook for us.
But you are right it does appear that rates may be lower for longer than had been feared earlier this year.
Got it.
I mean just to summarize I am clear.
So ultimately the drop in rates is an incremental positive if the macro remains steady then we should think about that as incrementally positive outlook for next year is that fair? Well I mean this is somewhat speculative.
Okay.
But I would say probably the best condition for us would be modest increase in rates if that is the result of more confidence in the business environment.
So the rates where they are now to the extent they are reacting to geopolitical conditions and weakness in Europe certainly provide attractive financing rates.
But absolute rates it’s difficult to envision a scenario where absolute rates are not pretty attractive in 2015 anyway.
So I wouldn’t mind seeing the rates move up a little bit with more business confidence.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just last one for me.
Obviously we talked about the organic growth rate in the analytics business.
When we look at that aggregate rate going out past the next couple of quarters is there a step up in the organic once you include those acquisitions going forward and how should we think about the long-term rate in that business or growth rate in that business? Well I think that we would expect our organic growth rates all things being equal to remain around where they are today.
Of course there is a lot that can happen that will influence that particularly when it comes to the movements in currencies and things like that.
But as I said all things equal we would expect to be able to sustain our current level of organic growth.
Thank you.
And we will move to our next question from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Yes hi.
Thank you.
My first question Linda just a general housekeeping question can you help us breakout four ratings areas the revenue is finer corporate finance high yield bank loans investment grade etcetera in the quarter? Sure Craig.
Starting first with corporate finance investment grade for the quarter is $39 million which is 15% of the total line of $260.7 million for corporate.
Spec rate is at 54.5% or 21% bank loan $62 million 24% of the total line and other accounts at $105 million.
The big news there would be the strong growth in the investment grade lines and also strong growth in the spec grade lines.
And it maybe puzzling we have heard a lot of questions from analysts this morning as to how can it be that those two lines have been down in terms of what they are looking at in terms of issuance activity and yet revenue is up.
So we would comment our usual caveat that it’s very hard to track our revenues from issuance and trying to do it is obviously a challenge.
On the investment grade side the difference would be that last year we had the Verizon deal which was $49 billion in the third quarter numbers.
If you take that out U.S.
investment grade issuance is actually up 17% in the U.S.
and mix is important to us.
More smaller deals are better for us.
And in high yield the situation is about the same.
We saw fewer jumbo deals from last year and particularly in EMEA we saw better revenue yield because of smaller deals which are helpful to us.
So again just looking at the headline issuance numbers are going to help you you have to look at the deal size and what was going on in the previous year.
With those comments I will move on to structured finance.
Total was $102 million for the quarter.
Asset-backed we saw $23 million and that’s about 23% of the total; RMBS $18.3 million 18% of the total; commercial real estate 26.9% or 26% of the total; and structured credit 33.8% or 33% of the total.
And here are the big drivers in structured credit which has moved up to $33.8 million from $20.1 million last year.
That’s all about the growth in CLOs and that sector has been very strong for us in structured but seeing global structured up 22% is a nice change and we are very pleased about that.
Moving on to financial institutions total for that line is $91.8 million banking is $60.7 million of that or 66% insurance $27.1 million or 30% and managed investments $4 million about 4%.
And there we saw good growth both in the banking and the insurance line as we have commented previously.
And public project and infrastructure total of $88.5 million $40 million from public finance and sovereigns 45% of the total; munis about $4 million or 4% of the total; and project and infrastructure about $44.8 million 51% of the total; and there in PFG and sovereigns we saw good growth year-over-year.
So that’s the story on the rating agency.
Appreciate that.
And then also can you just give us the incentive comp number in the quarter? Sure.
Hang on just a second.
Incentive compensation for this quarter was $46.8 million and we did increase that a bit from last quarter’s $44.2 million.
That came with the change in guidance and we saw that we had – we have pretty good performance.
For the fourth quarter I would suggest that you would model somewhere between $40 million and $45 million.
It depends how we do and that number is going to move around depending on how we do for the end of the year.
Okay.
And then also I’d like you to ask rate yourself what do you think needs a change in the marketplace right now to kind of see RMBS pick up significantly from here in the U.S.? Yes.
I mean right now it looks as though it’s policy driven as much as anything having to do with market conditions or market forces.
The role of private label mortgage-backed securities is – remains very small.
And probably the most expedient way to grow that market would be if there were lower limits on qualifying mortgages that would go into Fannie and Freddie but I am not aware of any moves to make that happen.
So it looks like that the U.S.
RMBS market at least is going to remain relatively soft.
In Europe again the securitization market in Europe has been broadly soft for some time now.
Policymakers would like to see more activity.
They are certainly talking up a resumption of that market.
But to the extent that their tools are dealing more with liquidity than they are with supply demand they are probably going to have limited impact so we are waiting for change in market sentiment in Europe as opposed to the U.S.
One last housekeeping question Linda the tax rate as you think out to next year are you thinking it should be similar to 33% you are talking about for this year or more like the mid-31s 31.5 or so that you have in the last couple of years? Craig it’s a little bit too soon to start talking about the tax rate for next year.
We would note though that the tax rate for this quarter moved up quite a bit.
We had been at about 29.5% from last year and we were up to 33% for this quarter which had to do with some discrete items and so on.
So we are expecting a little bit of this continuing in the fourth quarter.
But for next year we are going to have wait and see what everything looks like next year.
We have got a kind of reset on where we are generating our income and what that means so not going to venture as far as next year? And to the extent that we are seeing stronger economic conditions in the U.S.
than we are in our international business it’s going to be tougher to get low tax rate.
So we are – just a small cautionary note there.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we will move to our next question from Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Yes.
Thanks.
Just want to ask on the financial institutions group the strength you saw there I understood I guess where it was coming from but is there anecdotal explanation I guess for why you saw that strength I guess something particular happening amongst that client group? Well it was largely European and Asian financial institutions that are not frequent issuers accessing the markets there and taking advantage of market conditions.
And they are since they are not frequent issuers more of those institutions would fit into our per issue pricing program than the frequent issuer.
So we see more of an uptick when those per issue institutions are active and that’s what we saw in part in the third quarter.
I would also just point out we saw strength in the U.S.
insurance sector and that related in part to M&amp;A activity and funding for that.
Okay.
And then also somewhat earlier I guess you mentioned the U.S.
more small customers are better than – more small deals better than big deals.
I guess in a rough sense I guess what’s the range as you think about the fees might get from a typical I guess dollar of issuance between larger transactions versus more smaller transactions making up that mix? Tim we don’t like to go too much into pricing I think we would say the 5-ish basis points we get on investment grade deals that service us very well and we think provides good value for the issuers as well.
On larger deal particularly deals as large as Verizon we wouldn’t apply that same basis point level to a deal of that size.
So I wouldn’t make an overall judgment thereon on what the price yield would be on those but 5-is basis points on per issue pricing would be about right.
Okay.
And I guess lastly it seems like you expect a decent size expense ramp in the fourth quarter and although it’s seasonally higher but is there anything in particular going on in terms of investment spending in Q4? Right.
And I was hoping someone would ask that so we could clarify this.
We do still expect expenses to ramp $80 million to $90 million from the first quarter to the fourth quarter.
And in the first quarter we were mentioning we had $434 million.
I also was looking last year in 2013 expenses also ramped up 13% fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
So the primary issue here which I don’t think everybody have thought about is going into fourth quarter we are picking up the operating expenses for ICRA which is majority ownership of the Indian rating entity and WebEquity which we acquired in July.
So the two of those together and again this is the first full quarter when we will have those that’s $20 million that we are adding to expenses just right there.
Consulting and IT will probably add little bit shy of $20 million.
And if we come in according to where we think we will with our guidance incentive compensation will be about $10 million.
And typically the T&amp;E bills are a little bit higher as we get into the fourth quarter as everybody is trying to get the final implementations particularly in the MA business completed.
So I think that explains the majority of it but the analysts may not be thinking about the fact that we are picking up the ICRA expenses and the WebEquity expenses.
And you are right we do have a seasonal ramp in the fourth quarter.
We may do a bit better than that but we don’t want to promise that because we are not really sure and you have got to think about the incentive compensation piece of that as well.
And just relative to the added expense from ICRA and WebEquity is $12 million or what’s the right idea I guess for the revenue being added in from ICRA? And then I mean you gave the WebEquity for partial quarter this quarter I guess but….
Yes.
In terms of ICRA where I don’t think we want to get to a specific number because ICRA is a public company in India and we don’t want to be front-running any communications that ICRA has to be making.
And so we are going to out of an abundance of caution we are not going to disclose a fourth quarter expectation.
Is it the right way still you are accounting for that with a lag in the quarter correct? Yes.
We still have that quarterly lag yes.
Okay thank you.
And we will take our next question from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
Ray do you sense that you guys are gaining perhaps a little bit of market share this year and there are any asset classes you would call out where you think you might be getting some share? We had pretty comprehensive coverage in the market.
As you know Peter structured finance is always a source of variability in coverage and it so happens that areas where we are particularly strong have been active in structured finance.
So yes I would say that our coverage – our relative coverage has probably improved compared to our competitors.
And we have been active in rating CLOs and CMBS and we will do our best to make sure that we maintain both high coverage and high quality in the ratings.
Alright.
And Linda FX presumably is going to be much more of a headwind in the fourth quarter how should we think about that? It’s hard to think about FX going forward Peter.
We were concerned about it.
And then the dollar/euro sort of returned to where it had been.
It’s little tough to tell how that’s all going to pan out but I don’t think it’s going to be a huge piece of input for us.
One note Peter on the expense line that we heard some questions on earlier this morning the interest expense which you can see in the tables accompanying the earnings release was $39 million in the third quarter.
And the reason for that was $11 million of cost as we paid our 2015 private placement early – a year early.
So we had some cost associated with that.
So I just wanted to call that out so that the analysts and the investors can see it.
Yes.
Just one other comment on FX Peter a substantial part of our international billings are in euros and a substantial part of our international expense is in pounds where we have our largest operation outside the U.S.
So to the extent that euros and pounds are moving in the same direction and we have bit of a natural hedge there.
So if they do not move in the same direction that’s where FX could become more material to our results.
Got it.
Thank you.
And we will move to our next question from Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon everyone.
So Linda just to continue on the interest expense question if that – if you back out $11 million it’s about $28 million in interest expenses is that a good rate to use going forward for Q4? Yes.
I think that’s probably a pretty good build.
We did do the financing in July so you have to consider that we have increased the run rate on that to include that financing even though that was done at very attractive rates it does add a bit interest expense for you.
30 your money very attractive.
5.25.
Now I am seeing the headline here 25 Eurozone banks said to fill stress test and so my question is with that are you seeing an acceleration in demand for stress testing in the U.S.
and Europe? Well I think the short answer is yes.
Absolutely but it’s I think we would also be cautious in saying that the stress tests that are being conducted are a principal driver of demand for our risk management services and our stress testing capabilities in particular.
They play a role but there is a broader increase in the attention to risk measurement and risk management that’s going on beyond just these point-in-time stress testing.
Mark I don’t know if there is anything you want to add to that? No I think that’s right.
I think it – the results the specific results of the stress test aren’t all that meaningful for us it’s really the existence of the stress test in the way that stress testing is being integrated into regulatory supervision of banks in the U.S.
and now we are seeing it in Europe is a good driver of demand for the kinds of things that we offer to banks.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
And we will move to our next question from Vincent Hung with Autonomous Research.
Hi good afternoon.
Maybe I missed this but could you provide any color on the ERS project pipeline? It remains good.
It’s – we have – we are at the heart of work on a lot of projects with a lot of customers around the world.
I think it’s very consistent with what we have been talking about and what we have talked about at Investor Day.
We continue to think that ERS will be the fastest growing business in Moody’s Analytics.
Okay.
And is there any commentary on how the regulator and compliance costs have trended this quarter? As we have communicated previously we think the incremental costs this year will be less than $5 million maybe up to $5 million.
But that as you can tell it on the incremental component for the quarter would not be substantial.
Okay great.
And lastly it’s just more of a longer term question around high yield issuance but clearly if I look at your revenues they have grown in tandem with the mix shift in total debt issuance so more high yield issuance and it keeps getting harder to argue that mix will continue to increase towards greater high yield issuance because we are currently running at about 8% high yield issuance the total debt issuance for the year-to-date and pre-crisis it was 3% and clearly some of that is going to be supported by the positive backdrop of low rates and disintermediation but how should we think about how that trends going forward? Yes.
There are both cyclical and structural features to the high yield – the growth in the high yield market.
And when we talk about high yield broadly I would include both leverage loans and high yield bonds.
But the – and so cyclically yes low rates have caused a lot of opportunistic financing that’s already been largely accomplished.
The good news is that once institutions are in the market with financings that increases the volume that will be refinanced in the future.
And so that’s a very good news story.
But structurally the conditions and changes that are going on in the financial institution sector globally in terms of capital adequacy and stress testing and risk management and curtailment of certain business activities that are creating profit pressures all of that is encouraging disintermediation and a lot of that is for non-investment grade parts of the market.
Those are the institutions that historically would have been either largely or exclusively in banking relationships rather than in the bond markets and they are going to the bond markets now certainly in the U.S.
but also a big opportunity in Europe.
And Vincent we would also note and call your attention to what we have said earlier this $100 billion backlog in M&amp;A take-out financing much of that is high yield.
M&amp;A activity generally tends toward being high-yield activity and that’s quite good for us.
And we have again very nice conditions here with the equity markets at highs and financing costs relatively low and we were just looking at M&amp;A activity if it’s very much very much at a high point right now which is very helpful to us.
The other thing I would add is that this forecast this guidance does incorporate the view though that activity in Europe is still weakish not very strong.
And that would be the place that Michel had commented on earlier where we do see a little bit more concern about what’s happening there but we do see good activity here in the U.S.
We are trying to put those two things together in considering our guidance.
The one other thing I would remind everyone regarding our guidance the acquisitions we have done this year and WebEquity together on a GAAP basis are $0.05 dilutive to the GAAP earnings outlook for this year so just something for everyone to keep in the back of their minds.
I think there is some question as to why we didn’t do something more with guidance? Today we would note it’s only been 24 business days since we had our Investor Day so just trying to keep everything in balance here.
Okay thank you.
And we will take our next question from Patrick O'Shaughnessy with Raymond James.
Hey guys.
We continue to hear complaints in the corporate bond market about the lack of secondary market liquidity.
And so far it does not seem like that has impacted the ability of companies to go to the market and issued debt.
Could you foresee a scenario in the future though where that lack of secondary market liquidity does become an issue? And to the extent that it does what sort of role can Moody’s play in maybe helping that liquidity better develop? Patrick I don’t think that it causes any hesitation in companies coming to the market.
What is interesting for companies that have well-aged bond deals and then bring new debt to the market sometimes those new deals can trade tighter than the old deals because there is more of these newer securities then in inventory.
So that’s a curious fact but one that is happening quite a bit.
The other thing we would note is this last Wednesday when the tenure traded down to 1.87 there was a view that a lot of that unusual decline was because capital markets suggest that various firms are not holding the same sorts of bond inventories that they did before to act as a shock absorber as rates move around.
So that would be another factor that we would call attention to.
We don’t think though that that has any impact on issuance at this point.
Issuance even as recently as yesterday Verizon brought a $6 billion deal yesterday and it went very nicely.
So I don’t think we see – we could see any impact on issuance but I’d invite Ray and perhaps Michel to comment.
No that’s nothing to add to that Linda.
That was very complete.
I don’t know Michel if you have anything you would like to add please do.
No nothing from my side.
Alright great.
That’s all from me.
Thank you.
Thanks Patrick.
And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
Okay.
Just want to thank everyone for joining us on the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again in the New Year.
Thank you.
This concludes Moody’s third quarter 2014 earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 4 PM Eastern Time on Moody’s website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation fourth quarter and fiscal yearend 2014 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's fourth quarter and full year results for 2014 as well as our outlook for full year 2015.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
This morning Moody's released its results for the fourth quarter and full year 2014 as well as our outlook for full year 2015.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel Moody's President and Chief Executive Officer will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Moody's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found towards the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's fourth quarter and full year 2014 results and Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
I will then conclude with a few general updates and comments on our outlook for 2015.
After our prepared remarks we'll be happy to respond to your questions.
In the fourth quarter Moody's delivered revenue of $878 million an increase of 13% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
We again achieved growth in almost all lines of business.
Operating expense for the fourth quarter was $533 million up 14% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Operating income was $345 million an 11% increase from the prior-year period.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $372 million also up 11% from the same period last year.
Operating margin of 39.3% was down from 40% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Adjusted operating margin of 42.4% was down from 43% for the same period last year.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.12 increased 19% from the prior-year period's GAAP EPS and 32% from the prior-year period's non-GAAP EPS.
For full year 2014 Moody's revenue was $3.3 billion an increase of 12% from 2013.
Revenue of Moody's Investor Service was $2.3 billion an increase of 9% from 2013.
Moody's Analytics revenue of $1.1 billion was 19% higher than the prior-year period.
Operating expense for full year 2014 was $1.9 billion up 9% from 2013.
Operating income of $1.4 billion increased 17%.
Adjusted operating income of $1.5 billion increased 16%.
Operating margin for 2014 of 43.2% was up from 170 basis points from 41.5% in 2013.
Adjusted operating margin of 46% was up 130 basis points from 44.7%.
Reported diluted earnings per share of $4.61 was up 28% from $3.60 in 2013.
Non-GAAP EPS of $4.21 was up 15% from $3.65 in 2013.
Full year 2014 non-GAAP EPS excluded a $103 million non-cash pre-tax gain or $0.37 per share resulting from Moody's acquisition of a controlling interest in ICRA in the second quarter as well as a $0.03 benefit from the resolution of a legacy tax matter in the third quarter.
Full year 2013 non-GAAP EPS excluded a litigation settlement charge of $0.14 in the first quarter and a legacy tax benefit of $0.09 in the fourth quarter.
I'll now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the fourth quarter increased 13% to $878 million.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted MCO revenue by 3%.
U.S.
revenue was $479 million up 15% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $399 million was up 10% and represented 45% of Moody's total revenue.
Recurring revenue of $444 million represented 51% of total revenue.
Looking now to each of our businesses starting with Moody's Investor Service.
Total MIS revenue for the quarter which included results for net growth was $565 million up 7% from the prior-year period.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted MIS revenue by 3%.
U.S.
revenue increased 14% to $344 million.
Revenue outside the U.S.
of $221 million declined 2% and represented 39% of total revenue.
Moving to the lines of business for MIS.
First global corporate finance revenue in the fourth quarter was up 9% to $263 million reflecting increased U.S.
investment-grade bond issuance and growth in the number of credits monitored.
Partially offsetting these gains was the contraction of global high yield bond and bank loan issuance.
U.S.
corporate finance revenue increased 15% while non-U.S.
corporate finance revenue decreased 2%.
Second global structured finance revenue for the fourth quarter was $119 million 9% above the prior-year period reflecting continued strength in global CLO issuance as well as increased RMBS issuance in Europe and the U.S.
These gains were partially offset by reduced ABS issuance in the U.S.
and Europe as well as fewer covered bonds issued in Europe.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
structured finance revenue increased 11% and 5% respectively year-over-year.
Third global financial institutions revenue of $85 million decreased 4% from the same quarter of 2013 primarily due to lower bank issuance in Europe and the U.S.
Partially offsetting this was increased issuance from Chinese and South Asian financial institutions.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
financial institutions revenue decreased 7% and 2% respectively year-over-year.
Fourth global public project and infrastructure finance revenue increased 9% year-over-year to $90 million.
Gains in the U.S.
were partially offset by decreased infrastructure issuance in Europe and Asia.
U.S.
public project and infrastructure finance revenue increased 26% while non-U.S.
revenue decreased 14%.
MIS other and new line of business which consists of non-ratings revenue from ICRA and Korea Investors Service or KIS contributed $7.9 million to MIS revenue for the fourth quarter compared to $3.2 million in the prior-year period.
Turning now to Moody's Analytics.
Global revenue for MA of $312 million was up 23% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted MA revenue by 3%.
Excluding revenue from 2014 acquisitions MA revenue grew 18%.
U.S.
revenue grew by 15% year-over-year to $135 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased by 30% to $177 million and represented 57% of total MA revenue.
Moving now to the lines of business for MA.
First global research data and analytics or RD&amp;A revenue of $150 million increased 11% from the prior-year period and represented 48% of total MA revenue.
Growth was primarily driven by strength in sales of credit research ratings data licenses and economic analysis and data as well as the October 2014 acquisition of Lewtan Technologies.
RD&amp;A's customer retention rate remains strong at 96% for the fourth quarter.
U.S.
revenue was up 13% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 7%.
Second enterprise risk solutions or ERS revenue of $120 million grew 42% from last year resulting from strong growth across nearly all product offerings in particular the asset-liability and capital solutions credit origination insurance and stress-testing verticals.
ERS also benefited from the acquisition of WebEquity Solutions in July 2014 and for early completion of some customer projects leading to better than expected results for the quarter.
Revenue was up 10% in the U.S.
and 65% outside the U.S.
Trialing 12-month revenue and sales for ERS increased 25% and 16% respectively.
As we've noted in the past due to variable nature of project timing and completion ERS revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Third global professional services revenue grew 28% to $43 million primarily reflecting the acquisition of Amba Investment Services in December 2013 as well as mid-single digit growth in our training and certification business.
U.S.
revenue increased 56% and non-U.S.
revenue increased 18%.
Turning now to expenses.
Moody's fourth quarter expense increased 14% to $533 million primarily due to hiring and added operating expenses from acquisitions.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted expense by 2%.
As Ray noted Moody's reported operating margin and adjusted operating margin were both down slightly in the quarter at 39.3% and 42.4% respectively.
Moody's effective tax rate for the quarter was 28.1% compared to 30.6% for the prior-year period primarily due to a higher portion of income in lower tax jurisdictions.
Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014 Moody's consolidated ICRA's results of operations on a three-month lag.
In the fourth quarter ICRA contributed approximately $12 million of revenue to MIS.
Details on changes to line of business revenue reporting made subsequent to our acquisition of a majority stake of ICRA can be found on Page 13 of our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings press release.
I'll now provide an update on capital allocation.
On December 17 Moody's increased its quarterly dividend 21% to $0.34 per share of Moody's common stock.
During 2014 Moody's returned $236 million to its shareholders via dividend payments.
During fourth quarter of 2014 Moody's repurchased 4.6 million shares at a total cost of $440.3 million and issued 301 000 shares under employee stock-based compensation plans.
For full year 2014 Moody's repurchased 13.8 million shares for $1.2 billion for $88.41 per share and issued 4.9 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plan.
Outstanding shares as of December 31 2014 totaled 204.4 million shares down 4% from the prior year.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 the Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program which will commence following the completion of the existing program.
Included in this incremental program as of December 31 2014 Moody's had $1.6 billion of share repurchase authority remaining.
Also at yearend Moody's had $2.5 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Total cash cash equivalents and short-term investments at yearend were $1.7 billion down $428.7 million from a year earlier due to shareholder returns via dividends and share repurchases.
This was partially offset by Moody's 2014 bond offering of $750 million of senior unsecured notes.
As of yearend approximately 75% of our cash holdings were maintained outside the U.S.
Full year 2014 free cash flow was $944 million up $59.5 million or 7% from 2013.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
We've received a number of questions about recent media report that the Department of Justice is in the early stages of looking into Moody's.
As we've been disclosing in our 10-Q and 10-K filings Moody's like other financial services firms has had heightened scrutiny since the financial crisis from a wide range of governmental organizations.
Where we believe specific matters are material we communicate them in our filings and other disclosures to the market.
And in this regard currently we have nothing new to report that would alter our existing disclosures.
With that I will conclude this morning's prepared comments by discussing our full year guidance for 2015.
Moody's outlook for 2015 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates foreign currency exchange rates corporate profitability and business investment spending merger and acquisitions consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
These assumptions are subject to some degree of uncertainty and results for the year could differ materially from our current outlook.
Moody's guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of year exchange rates with the exception of the British pound and the euro which assume foreign currency translation of $1.51 to £1 and a $1.15 to €1 respectively.
Moody's expects full year 2015 total revenue to grow in the mid-single digit percent range.
Operating expense is also expected to growth in the mid-single digit percent range.
On a constant dollar basis Moody's 2015 revenue and operating expense growth rates will each be approximately 300 basis points higher.
Moody's projects an operating margin of approximately 43% and an adjusted operating margin of approximately 46%.
The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 32% to 33%.
The company expects diluted earnings per share of $4.55 to $4.65.
Moody's expect 2015 share repurchases to be approximately $1 billion subject to available cash market conditions and other capital allocation decisions.
2015 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $110 million to $115 million driven primarily by technology investments in MIS our corporate systems and the integration of our recent acquisitions.
These investments are expected to continue over the next several years.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be approximately $120 million.
Moody's incremental compliance and regulatory expense is expected to be approximately $5 million primarily due to the continuing maintenance cost to comply with global regulation.
Free cash flow is expected to be approximately $1 billion.
For MIS Moody's expects 2015 revenue to growth in the mid-single digit percent range.
MIS U.S.
and non-U.S.
revenue are both expected to increase in mid-single digit percent range.
Corporate finance revenue structured finance revenue and financial institutions revenue are all expected to growth in the mid-single digit percent range.
Public project and infrastructure finance revenue is projected to grow in high-single digit percent range.
Our issuance expectations underlying our 2015 MIS revenue outlook are largely in line with the consensus view of various global banks acknowledging that there is a wide range of views in the market.
For MA 2015 revenue is expected to increase in the mid-single digit percent range.
U.S.
revenue is expected to grow approximately 10% and non-U.S.
revenue to increase in mid-single digit percent range.
RD&amp;A is projected to grow in the high-single digit percent range.
Enterprise Risk Solution is expected to grow in the mid-single digit percent range in 2015 following its 25% growth rate in 2014 which benefited from the early completion of some customer projects.
With regard to professional services as part of our integration of Copal and Amba in 2014 we discontinued certain non-core product offerings.
As a result 2015 professional services revenue is expected to be approximately flat.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody's Investors Service and Mark Almeida President of Moody's Analytics.
We'd be pleased to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Andre Benjamin from Goldman Sachs.
First question I know the outlook you issued is your official view of the guidance particularly on the issuance side but I was wondering where as we think about 2015 you think there is the most upside versus downside risk to the guidance? Just because it's the largest area of our business I would look to the corporate bond rating area.
As we said in our prepared remarks our outlook is largely in line with the outlooks of the large global banks for bond issuance both in the U.S.
and in Europe.
But we did note there is a wide variance in those outlooks so some of the more optimistic outlooks could certainly generate some material upside for us particularly in the high yield and in the bank loan area.
Andre its Linda and I'll speak a little bit about what we're seeing on investment grade high yield and leveraged loans.
For each of these I'll talk about what we've seen in terms of issuance in the U.S.
year-to-date and then what's expected for the full year.
Then I'll talk about fund flows and the state of the current pipeline in each of those areas.
So for U.S.
investment grade bond issuance year-to-date 2015 we've seen about $100 billion of issuance for January which is a strong month.
And for the year we're expecting a $1 trillion of U.S.
investment grade bond issuance which is about flat year-over-year.
Fund flows had been good year-to-date $12 billion into the investment grade marketplace.
And the current pipeline is described by the banks we've spoken to as above average.
High yield bonds year-to-date we've seen about $20 billion of issuance.
For the year U.S.
is expecting $275 billion of issuance which is down about 10% from 2014.
Fund flows are positive year-to-date total inflows of $2.5 billion.
And the current pipeline is said to be above average but that is a recent development and the pipeline appears to be building at this point.
For leverage loans year-to-date issuance has been about $30 billion.
And for the year we're expecting about $350 billion of leverage loan issuance which would be down about 20% from 2014.
Fund flows have been slightly negative down $2 billion so far.
The market hasn't seen any daily inflows yet on the leverage loan sector.
Current pipeline though is average to above average.
And the deal calendar is noted to continue to build at a steady pace.
The really interesting point here is what's going on with European issuance.
The European investment grade market is in very good shape.
Reverse Yankee issuance is expected to be more active as U.S.
companies are looking to issue in Europe given the largest interest rate differentials in 10 years between euro and the U.S.
dollar.
The European high yield bond market is off to a strong start.
And 2014 also was a very strong year in the European leverage loan market and there is optimistic view on that going forward.
M&amp;A issuers should help with that on the loan market front.
So we've got some interesting conditions.
Investment grade looking pretty good high yield and leverage loans off to a slower start but building.
And really the very interesting bright spot here is the number of U.S.
companies looking to issue in Europe so bit of a lengthy explanation but I think that sets the tone for what we're looking at.
I guess my second question would be for Mark.
I was wondering if you can maybe provide some update on the enterprise risk area of Moody's Analytics.
Maybe provide some color on why you think the guidance assumes normalization in the mid-single digit next year after such a strong year 2014? Is that based more on what's been contracted than your view on the pipeline or is it simply being conservative after a tough comp? Andre I think you nailed it in your note this morning.
We had some projects that got completed sooner than expected in the fourth quarter so we booked the revenue in '14 pulling it out of '15 so I think we've got a tougher comparable as we move into '15.
The pipeline is very healthy.
And I would say really you got to think of two pipelines the pipeline of projects that are already contracted that we're working on and delivering as well as the pipeline of prospective new deals coming in.
So I think the story for '15 is that from an underlying perspective business is just as strong if not stronger than what we've been talking about over the last couple of years.
And really what we're seeing both at the end of '14 and into '15 is the impact of the volatile timing of when revenue gets recognized in this business.
One thing I would just add to Mark's comment is as we have developed this business we have been getting some larger sales more complex projects that have longer implementation installation phases and that is a characteristic that we are dealing with now.
We certainly like those larger sales but that also puts some of the revenue out into 2016 that we might otherwise see in 2015.
And we'll go next to Doug Arthur with Evercore ISI.
I was stuck by your comments in the structured business about the strength in residential mortgage securities particularly in Europe.
Ray or Linda can you sort of summarize the residential versus commercial mortgage-backed market.
I mean the numbers that I've been looking at look sort of week in terms of total issuance.
But it looks like you're seeing something different? Let me first turn it to Michel to comment on the European side if you would Michel? I think first you have to put these numbers in perspective.
And the base while we have a high growth in percentage terms the dollar numbers are not that large.
But what is happening in Europe is we had higher volume of issuance in RMBS coming out of the U.K.
and Russia and that is what drove for Europe actually the improvement we've seen in RMBS.
We also had similar to what we've seen in the U.S.
a strong volume of CLOs basically which also contributed to the growth we've seen in structural finance.
And is that true in the U.S.
as well? Yes.
And maybe Ray wants to comment on that.
But we have the same situation in the U.S.
where for CLOs we've seen strong activities.
In RMBS what we really had is we had what I would describe as a number of non-traditional transactions where we've seen growth typically at things such as the single-family rental and agency risk sharing transactions where we've seen growth basically from prior volumes.
And Doug certainly in the U.S.
while we are seeing growth just keep in mind it is off of a very low base.
So the significance of that line in 2014 and going into 2015 is small compared to for example CLO or CMBS areas of structured finance.
We'll go next to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
I just wanted to clarify so the mid-single digit total revenue guidance includes a 300 basis point FX headwind is that correct? Yes Manav that's right.
And then is that the same for all the other line items like the separate categories that includes an FX headwind? Generally yes.
If there is anything else to be said about this I'll encourage Mark and Michel to speak about it.
But we would have been pretty close to our double-digit growth target were it not for the FX headwinds.
And you can see in our earnings release the rates at which we're using to prepare our guidance.
And to the extent you're asking is it in our EPS guidance as well as our revenue guidance.
The answer is yes.
And how much of the growth is coming from M&amp;A just to get a sense of like the contribution from the deals there? As you saw the fourth quarter inclusion of ICRA was about $13 million.
And I'll turn to Mark to ask him if he would comment on the acquisitions that are on the Moody's Analytic side.
In MA for 2014 our growth was substantially organic.
For the year we're talking about in excess of 90% of our revenue growth was organic.
I'm referring just to 2015 like with the inclusion of I guess WebEquity and Lewtan how much does that contribute? Well again the majority of our growth in '15 will be organic but we are getting some benefits from acquisition.
And then I guess Mark just on the margin expansion guidance that you had given us at Investor Day.
Does the solid quarter changed that outlook to maybe get to some of those numbers earlier than expected or it was just truly one of those lumpy things you experience in your business? I think it was more than just lumpiness in the business although that certainly helped but it's also I think the improvement in the margin is the result of all the work that we're doing to get us there.
So I think we're seeing the results of the operational adjustments we're making across the company particularly in ERS to drive margin expansion but we did get a bit of a bump in the fourth quarter.
So I would be cautious about extrapolating the fourth quarter results out on a linear basis over the next couple of years.
We are going to see the margin move around a bit from quarter-to-quarter.
But I think nevertheless the trend is definitely going in the right direction and I would expect the operational adjustments we've made will continue to keep us on track to expand margin in MA.
And then last one from me.
Linda you did a couple of debt raises last year just from where we are today just your thoughts on leverage and what you anticipate there? Sure.
We're comfortable with our leverage.
We do have some room.
We like our rating and we want to stay comfortably within that rating.
We probably have $600 million $700 million of room in terms of what we could do within this current rating and we'll see how the year progresses.
And we'll go next to Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
I've got a few questions.
Linda can you just help us what was the incentive comp in the quarter? I believe it was $47 million fourth quarter a year ago? Yes.
For the fourth quarter incentive comp was just about $53 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 as compared to $46.8 million previous year.
And stock-based compensation was about flat at $20 million.
This year we did a little bit better.
We had profit sharing in the fourth quarter.
We had to put up $7 million of profit sharing because we finished the year stronger than we had expected.
And for the full year incentive compensation was $173 million Craig.
Stock-based comp was about $80 million and total profit sharing was $9.3 million.
And then also Linda in your EPS guidance for the year I am curious FX gain that you guys posted in the fourth quarter roughly $18 million how much are you budgeting that line to be for 2015 in your EPS guidance? So Craig if you take a look at the earnings release if you look at Page 23 I think it is we've got that outlined.
So what we are doing is we're assuming foreign currency translation at the end of year rates with the exception of the specific examples of the British pound sterling and the euro and we're looking at those at $1.51 to £1 and a $1.15 to €1.
So we've budgeted flat at those levels and we're not taking a dynamic view from there.
You said Page 23 I thought this press release was more like 12 pages.
So am I missing something? You should have a full 24 pages of our at-strength press release here Craig.
I'll have to look that up.
Ray the CalPERS case as your competitor S&amp;P just settled for $125 million.
Does that make it any more likely that you guys will be settling CalPERS any time soon or no change in that front? No.
I think there is really no change on that front.
We're in discovery in the CalPERS case.
And once the discovery is completed the next is to move for summary judgment.
So we'll not add a point in this case where the merits have been addressed.
Then lastly Linda like I always ask if you could just breakout within your four segments within rating dollars of a high yields versus bank loans et cetera percentages or however you want do it? Sure.
Craig do you want to the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
Do you want year total.
The fourth quarter would be helpful? Let's look at fourth quarter 2014 versus third quarter 2014 and we'll look at corporate first.
So for investment grade we had $80 million of revenue in the fourth quarter 2014 which is up dramatically from $39 million of revenue in the third quarter 2014.
Spec-grade moved into different direction we had $34 million of revenue versus third quarter's $54.5 million.
On bank loans we had $37 million of revenue versus the third quarter's $62 million of revenue.
And on other count we had a $112 million of revenue versus the third quarter's $105 million.
Interestingly the percentages and the total in corporate segment as we said for the fourth quarter was $263 million.
The percentages in the fourth quarter for investment grades was 30% of the revenue spec-grade was 13% bank loans were 14% and other was 43%.
Interestingly in the third quarter things were different.
Investment grade was only 15% so as a percentage investment grades doubled in the fourth quarter.
Spec-grades was 21% in the third quarter and bank loans were 23%.
So the majority of the revenues for the fourth quarter were in fact in investment grade.
You can see how these things move around and how we can have pretty strong offset.
Let's not say that will happen every quarter.
Going to structure Craig fourth quarter of 2014 asset-backed $22 million which was 18% of structured revenue; RMBS which includes covered bonds $20 million or 17%; commercial real estate almost $36 million or 30%; and structured credit was $40.3 million or 34%; totaled $118.5 million.
And as compared to the third quarter there ABS is down a little bit; RMBS is about flat; commercial real estate is up in terms of percentage terms it's only 26% in the third quarter; and structured credit was about flat at 34% in the fourth quarter.
Looking at FIG fourth quarter of 2014 about $60 million in banking revenue 70% of the revenue line; insurance at $19.2 million or 23%; managed investments $4.3 million which was 5% of the revenue line; and the other was $2.1 million; total of $85.3 million for financial institutions.
Banking a little bit stronger in the fourth quarter with 70% of the revenue; insurance a little bit lighter than in the third quarter where insurance was 30% versus fourth quarter's 23%.
And going to PPIF fourth quarter we saw almost $48 million of PFG and sovereign.
That was up pretty nicely from $40 million in the third quarter.
Our project and infrastructure of $42 million down a little bit from the $44.8 million in the third quarter and other is negligible.
So the total is $90 million in PPIF.
And do you want Moody's Analytics as well Craig or will that do it for you.
I'm good on that.
But I do have one last quick question.
Your overseas operations window what percent of the revenues are booked overseas in U.S.
dollars? Craig we're not going into that level of details on FX.
I think the statement that we made is that revenue was about $55 million $45 million U.S.
non-U.S.
But we're not going into the currencies in which we're billing.
Can I ask you is it a significant number maybe like north of 10% of your stuff overseas in U.S.
dollars.
Can you help us at all on that? We don't disclose that Craig.
And we'll go next to Alex Kramm with UBS.
Just want to come back to sort of a lot of detail you've given on the guidance.
Maybe not so big one in particular but if you look at the U.S.
where Linda you talked about the issuance environment in particular mid-single digit growth is the guidance.
Obviously there is no FX impact.
And basically you said IG flat and high-yield and never slowing down pretty substantially.
So help us gap what gets you there? Like obviously you have pricing power you have a recurring revenue growth.
So just help us a little bit here to get to the delta? I mean we do have price opportunities but I cautioned you on that side that those some of what we can do with price relates to volume of issuance.
So if there is a change in a bond rating fee and bonds are not issued we wouldn't see that pricing opportunity.
I think probably the biggest thing that may not be top of mind is the increase in monitoring fees.
We've had almost 2 000 new rating relationships developed since the beginning of 2013.
So over the last two years almost 2 000 new names are being followed and we do take annual monitoring fees and a lot of that the majority of that does come out of the corporate sector.
Anything to outside of the U.S.
to point out what do you think in other regions the issuance and the revenue growth are more in line with each other? Yes I think they are and in particular I think we see some upside opportunity coming out of Asia.
There has been good growth in new rating relationships and bond issuance in Asia not just in corporates but in financial institutions and banking sector as well.
And then just maybe switching topics because I think in general you folks are pretty down on the outlook for issuance.
But let's say if you get into this environment where maybe it is even worse than what you are seeing here what are the levers you can pull? I think Linda you mentioned the incentive comp and things like that.
Can you share a little bit what the goals are there or the ranges in terms of where that could come out? And perhaps any other levers you can pull on the margin side? We generally view that we have about $50 million of expense flexibilities that we can execute without causing a lot of difficulties.
I would cautions that forecast on issuance those forecasts are notoriously wrong.
Last year we started off with investment grade issuance for 2014 said to be down 10% and we finished up 10%.
So you have to be careful about that.
And the first thing that we can do is we would probably look to slow our rate of hiring if we see this difficulty.
We can slow up on certain technology project for example.
But we think we've taken a good middle of the fairway view here in terms of our guidance.
And I'll let Ray comment a little bit further if he'd like to.
Now as Linda says we do have tools available to manage expense in more extreme environment but frankly what we're looking at is just some uneven cyclical conditions.
We're probably going to continue to invest through those because we see some very good long term opportunities and we want to be ready to see some.
We'll go next to Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Ray appreciate your comments on the legal front and of course I want more.
So you guys don't see any need apparently in the context of the aggressive buyback to reserve cash for potential legal settlements.
I'm wondering if you could talk about just where things stand on other cases.
Are there any you'd call out that you think we should be paying particular attention to? And then any commentary on directional legal cost for you guys? As I have said on the previous calls the number of active cases is down dramatically from what we had in the peak following the financial crisis.
It's down to about a dozen cases here in the state.
And we have not had any new litigation since 2013 and the litigation that we have is uniformly in early stages.
Nothing is going for summary judgment.
There are no imminent trials.
So there is not a lot of new news on the litigation front from our previous communications to you.
We talked about the financial strength and flexibility of the corporation in the prepared comments.
We have very significant cash balances of almost $1.7 billion and undrawn credit line of $1 billion.
And we're going to run our capital allocation plans in accordance with the guidance that we've given.
And beyond that we're just not going to speculate on hypothetical.
Linda how about any color on how the costs will build in 2015? Yes Peter we've been taking a look at that.
And I think what we wanted folks to do was take a look at the expenses.
First quarter number you might want to focus on.
We're never sure if we have this quite right.
But we ended the fourth quarter at an expense run rate of about $532 million.
We think folks should probably back that off to a little bit over $500 million in the first quarter of '15.
And then we see our ramp this year is being a bit more gradual because in '14 we had a lot of acquisitions to take into account and those are pretty expensive to bring online.
And then we had strong incentive compensation builds in the fourth quarter as we did better than we expected.
So we would expect the ramp to go from sort of $500 million in expenses to maybe $530 million or $540 million.
And that we'll largely see a pickup in the fourth quarter.
So you want to take the ramp $30 million to $40 million.
But it will be relatively smoother over the first three quarters with sort of how we're looking at it.
But we often don't get this right because of the incentive comp piece.
And then Linda gross margin is quite a bit lower than what MIS does correct? I will pass that one over to Ray or Michel.
Yes it is a lower margin business and they do have public financials.
So those are available to you.
But do you guys now run the business actively? We have majority control.
But as I said it is a public company so we're involved through the Board of Directors and we have a majority of the Board of Directors but there are also independent directors.
We have someone that we've known for a long time as group CEO.
So we are managing the business but in the context of it being a public company with minority shareholder rights and procedures that have to be followed in an Indian context.
We'll go next to Bill Bird from FBR.
I was wondering if you could speak to what's happening on the investments grade line.
It was really struck by the spike in investments grade revenues in Q4.
If I look back over the last three years investment grade typically throttles at $40 million to $60 million a quarter.
So I was just curious if there is just kind of anything different going on in terms of how you're pricing the product or does this tie into Ray's comments on monitoring fees? The fourth quarter was a strong issuance quarter for investment grade but it was also supported by mix.
There were some large transactions and some issuers that even though they are investment grade might not fall into our frequent issuer pricings so that they were on per issue pricing basis and so it was both good volume and good mix.
And monitoring as you mentioned that continues to ramp.
This is how you can see the strength of the M&amp;A financing pipeline coming through.
And I think we had commented when I read through the various market sectors earlier we do see a backlog of M&amp;A financing from deals that have been announced and that's helpful to us.
And then separately as you look at the yearend based on the pipeline that you see right now how do you see growth sequencing this year? Are we going to likely start strong than we finish or what do you see as the shape of growth this year? This is also something that we notoriously don't perhaps do as well as we would like to in terms of the timing because we are really subject to how the market looks from quarter-to-quarter.
Recently we've seen the second quarter and the fourth quarter to be stronger revenues quarters Bill and I think we would probably continue to see that.
MIS has that pattern.
And I think from Mark's business the Moody's Analytics business fourth quarter is always the strongest.
It's quite strong and you saw that in 2014 as well.
Beyond that I'll invite Ray to give any further comments but that saw-toothed pattern would be something that I think we'd expect to see again.
On the MIS that's what really has been driving the saw-toothed Mark's business.
Moody's Analytics tends to grow sequentially whereas Moody's Investor Service follows the saw-tooth and being larger tends to drive a saw-tooth pattern for Moody's Corporation.
As we've said there are a lot of different opinions about issuance expectations for 2015.
They are subject to in my view a more than customary number of uncertainties which create both risks and opportunities.
Certainly looking at the strong job creation in the U.S.
and how that might influence the Fed's thinking on interest rate balanced against the weakness in global growth in most places that are not the United States and trying to manage that from a monitoring policy perspective we will be watching that just as everyone else is.
And I would imagine that that is going to lead periods of very active growth and periods of relative softness throughout the year.
And just one final question related to structured finance.
Was wondering if you just speak to the new CLO risk retention rules and how you see them impacting the market? Yes the market's going to take some time to adjust to that.
We don't see for example that there is going to be an elimination of CLOs.
There maybe more of a concentration in some of the large CLO arrangers but it seems unlikely to me at least that the banking sector is going to be able to step-in and provide the capital absent some sort of securitizations process.
And so I would imagine the market is going to be looking for ways to continue to do that process in a way that is regulatorily compliant and economically attractive.
It's happened historically and I would expect to see that again this year going into 2016 where it becomes effective.
Bill one other thing I just want to caution you and all the other analysts and people who take a look at Moody's.
As I said the issuance pipeline in Europe looks very very strong.
In fact we're told by the banks that it's difficult to get a roadshow slot to show your bonds in Europe right now.
There is that much traffic for issuing into Europe.
So some times some folks take an overly U.S.-centric view of things and Moody's is completely agnostic as to where companies issue.
We're just pleased that they're issuing.
So you should take a look what's going on over in Europe as particularly the first quarter unfolds.
And Asian issuance is looking pretty good for us as well.
So just keep an eye on the global pattern this year which might be a little bit different.
We'll go next to Joseph Foresi with Janney.
I wonder if we could drill down on what drove margins in the fourth quarter in the Analytics business.
I just want to get a sense of sort of what took place there and maybe a better understanding of the trajectory.
I know you expect them to increase in 2015? Mark do you want to comment on that? Sure.
Well again it was really two things going on.
One were what I would characterize as the structural changes that we're making in the business and some of the operational disciplines we're bringing in to drive more margin particularly in an enterprise risk solutions.
So I think we're just doing a better job.
We're being much more disciplined about pricing projects to ensure that we can deliver the kinds of profitability that we expect and require for the business.
So that's a piece of it.
And then the other piece of it is the fact that we just as we discussed we had a number of projects that completed sooner than expected that for which we round up reporting revenue in the fourth quarter.
So we had an inflow of revenue on the topline and our expense base was our expense base.
So that was driving a bit of a spike in the fourth quarter.
So you've got two things going on.
You've got structural and then the cyclical if you will.
Is that helpful? It is helpful.
I wonder is there a way to think about the trajectory of long-term margin expansions or even the trajectory of '15 will they step back down and then gradually go up or --? Again I guess I'm going to hold to my commitment that we're going to grow margin in this business in ERS over the next several years and we're going to get a number of points of margin expansion over several years.
So I think that's the way to think about it.
I wouldn't guide you to think about a meaningful shift in margin one way or the other going into '15.
Maybe that's the best way to set your expectations for this year.
And then obviously we're kind of excited about the European issuance market there.
How do we think about either the profitability or the revenues coming in from European market in light of the currency and the move in currency? I know you've given overall guidance for the total piece.
I'm just wondering as you look at those two factors together how should we be thinking about those? Joe let me talk a little about what we're seeing with FX.
So we spoke about that for 2015 we would be pretty close to double-digit revenue growth were it not for the FX piece.
And of course it hurts us on revenues and it helps us on expenses.
So about 3% loss on revenue from FX and about the same to help on the expense line.
The main exposures for us that we're working with are the euro and the pound.
And we are able to hedge a portion of our exposure using some derivatives that are discussed in our Ks and Qs.
It's pretty effective pretty easy to hedge; transaction exposure which would be something like acquisitions or debt issuance activities.
Little bit trickier to hedge translation exposure.
And for us a good rule of thumb for everyone to think about if the euro declines from the $1.15 we've budgeted for by another $0.05 that will hit us about $20 million in revenue.
And that will be offset by about $4 million of benefit in expense so net $16 million on the operating income line.
The EPS impact of a $0.05 decline in the euro would be about $0.05 on the EPS line.
So you can think about that use that as a rule of thumb and that's assuming that the pound is pretty static in this equation because the euro is the currency that's been moving around.
Yes.
That's assuming that the pound at $1.51 and just the euro moving.
Yes.
And then just lastly I know it's often difficult to find sort of the niche acquisitions that you're looking for.
How does that pipeline look in general? And were there any specific areas that you're looking to capitalize on in '15? We are always looking.
We remain disciplined about what we try to pull the trigger on.
More of the opportunities are on the Moody's Analytics side.
The opportunity that we had with ICRA on the MIS side last year was a little more unusual.
But in terms of the specifics on the Moody's Analytics side I think we'd rather wait till we have something to announce just so we can look around confidentially.
Joe also just in case you want to think about the EPS impact of the acquisitions that we've done and '14 was a pretty active for us the acquisitions were dilutive by about $0.05 in 2014 and we expect that to be about the same in 2015 about $0.05 of dilution from the acquisition.
From our existing acquisitions.
Existing acquisitions rolling forward.
But wanted to just give you that number which might be helpful.
We'll go next to Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
So I had a question for you on Copal and Amba.
You've mentioned that as a result of the discontinued product lines the revenue expectations there was going to be flat for 2015.
But I wanted to ask what you thought the longer-term how we should think about the longer-term growth rate for that group going forward? And also speak perhaps to the demand that you're seeing from U.S.
financial institutions for those types of services.
I am managing the business so I'll take this one.
You're right we did discontinue a product line so it's going to make it a little trickier to have the professional services line grow this year.
Historically and going forward we would expect Copal Amba to be growing in the low-ish teens.
Its margins which we don't disclose are quite strong.
And we're very pleased about that.
But given the need for U.S.
financial institutions and in fact global financial institutions to watch their expenses we see very good demand for this high-end knowledge process outsourcing that we do.
Legacy Copal supports investment bankers in producing pitch books and valuation models.
Legacy Amba is more focused on providing support for equity research analysts.
And both of those businesses are doing very nicely.
So we wanted to focus on those core areas.
And Mark may want to comment just a little bit more about what's going on with the rest of professional services which he's managing.
Yes.
On the training and certification side of Professional Services the business is doing better.
We had a couple of years where things were fairly soft in that area.
The fundamentals in the business have improved nicely but we are taking a pretty big whack there with the strength of the dollar because much of that business is outside of the Unites States.
And then second question for you on CapEx and $110 million to $115 million guidance.
I wanted to just ask if you look at the CapEx over the past three four years it's gone from sort of the mid-40s to $75 million in past year to $110 million to $115 million.
Maybe talk a little bit about what's driving that? And also if the $110 and $115 we should think of that is kind of the new normal for the way the business is being run.
You're right.
We have had an increase in CapEx costs.
Given the revenue line of the business we're still running a pretty CapEx-light kind of business.
But the main thing that we're doing here is pretty typical of other financial services companies as well which would be what we're doing here is we're making capital investments on the technology front.
And over the next few years primarily that involves Moody's Investor Service as the main beneficiary in our corporate systems secondarily.
And part of what we're doing here is we're providing for a more scalable and flexible infrastructure for MIS.
We are hoping to make our analysts ever more efficient and have flexibility to deal with any kinds of regulatory change that might come in the future.
So those are multiyear projects.
Our businesses are performing really well.
We are very pleased with how 2014 has come in.
So we think it's appropriate that we continue to invest in those businesses.
And yes $110 million to $115 million is probably right for the next couple of years.
But for the size of our business it's still not a particularly heavy CapEx line.
So hope that helps you out.
A couple housekeeping items.
I just wanted to double check.
The contribution from acquisitions on a total company basis it looks like it was about 200 basis points to 300 basis points.
Is that a good number? Looks like about 13% reported 3% from FX gets you to about 16% constant currency and then 200 basis points to 300 basis points off of that for acquisitions to get to organic.
Are you looking at the revenue line or the operating line? The revenue line.
I want to just get to an organic constant currency numbers.
I don't have the specific number in front of me but you're approximately your range is correct.
That is looking at Amba which was a 2013 acquisition.
So if you're specifically asking about the 2014 acquisitions it would be a much smaller number.
And then just also asking the share count exiting the quarter? Sure.
I think the simple share count was at 204 million shares.
And we took out about 4% net of the share count in 2014.
That's probably reasonable to model as a net number over '15 Bill.
We can never be sure exactly how that will work out because as we said we're shooting for $1 billion.
Lacking any other better ideas you probably ought to just look at that pro rata over the year.
We run as you know systematic share repurchase programs so we try to stay in the market all the time and we set those programs ahead of time so we can stay in the market despite most things that are going on with the company.
So I would run that about $250 million a quarter something like that.
We'll go next to Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Just want to ask about the corporate finance segment the other accounts.
Can you talk a little remind me I guess what's in there and what's driving the growth that has grown quite a bit as percentage of revenue for corporate finance? The MIS other line is a combination of Korea Investors Service and ICRA's non-ratings businesses.
They both have some non-ratings activities.
So that's what's captured in that line.
Are you asking about specifically other within the CFG line? Is that what you're looking for? Yes.
Sorry.
We're prepared to answer different questions here.
So let me take a shot at that.
What's in that line and the reason why it's growing it includes fees from monitoring which Ray has talked about are really nicely moving in our favor because of the increased number of credits we're looking at.
Then there is some other things medium-term note programs shelf programs commercial paper a smallish business on estimated ratings and other indicatives and corporate family ratings and as Ray said the ICRA rating revenue as well.
So it's a group of different things but it is a large and nicely growing line item for us.
Is the monitoring fee is the piece that's driving it to grow so much as a percentage of revenue? Yes.
That is the largest driver.
And then you're being asked about the MA margins in general for 2015.
Do you have I guess if I missed it did you say something or gave your view on MIS's margins? Do you expect them to improve next year or be flat? I guess what's the outlook? No I don't think we would anticipate margin expansion at MIS if in fact we're in a mid-single digit revenue growth environment.
Certainly if we get surprised on the upside with issuance volume or rated coverage I would anticipate having good incremental bring-down from that upside surprise.
So we'll have to wait and see.
We'll go next to Vincent Hung with Autonomous.
Just going back to the guidance of investment grade flat high yield down 10% and loans down 20% that's just U.S.
right? This is not guidance.
It's rather the view of a group of issuing banks that we talk to.
So it sort of sets the tone in terms of what the various banks are seeing in terms of trends for this year.
But you're right that's U.S.
only.
Do you have a similar sort of sense for Europe? What I might do is turn it over to Michel who might have a better sense of that.
As Linda said I think we expect more positive story on investment grade.
High yield we should benefit from sort of the environment in Europe and then the sort of successful yield we see across the board.
And as I think Linda mentioned last year was good year for leveraged loan and we expect that to continue.
So that's sort of directionally what we're seeing at the moment.
And just on the comment about the pipeline for high yield was above average and developing.
Is that's because it's been so weaker today? I think you have a good point there Vincent.
High yield is very subject to market conditions and so as we started January with oil bouncing around with overall rates coming down but spreads widening a bit the pipeline has only recently firmed.
But that is a positive development for us.
But again we'll continue to watch it.
And with fund flows being positive that's good as well.
So we'll have to see but we're encouraged by the recent strengthening.
And just lastly on the investment grade strength in the fourth quarter I think you noted the helpfulness of the M&amp;A pipeline.
Is that supported by the higher fees associated with having to do the deals quicker? It can be but not necessarily.
So many of these are really large deals and that the frequency of M&amp;A deals and the size of them have generally been helpful to us.
We'll go next to Patrick O'Shaughnessy with Raymond James.
Couple of quick follow-up questions for you.
So within structured finance that derivatives or structured credit bucket obviously had a very strong fourth quarter.
Can you refresh my memory kind of what products kind of fall within that and where was the specific strength in the fourth quarter? Structured credit is pretty much a CLO story these days and that would speak to much of the strength in the fourth quarter.
One of the things I was noticing as I was pulling this data together CLO volume so far for 2015 issuance volume is $3 billion.
2014 issuance volume for CLO was $124 billion which is just a very very significant number.
And we'll see what happens with that number in 2015 but that's what most of the structured credit consist of these days.
And for both the fourth quarter and the full year CLO strength I mean there was real strength in the U.S.
But I would also point to Europe although it's a smaller market a smaller component of the business there was also strong growth there.
And then a follow-up question on the expense ramp over the year.
I appreciate how it's kind of tricky to figure out exactly what that slope is going to look like.
But given everything you talked about I think you said maybe start the first quarter barely over $500 million and then kind of finish the year maybe $530 million $540 million.
If we take say the low-end of that average say that quarter is $510 million you multiply that by four that gets you to $2.04 billion.
If I divide that by what your expenses were last year $1.895 billion I'm getting something like 8% expense growth.
And your full year guidance is more like mid-single digit.
So am I screwing something up with my math or is it just pretty tricky to figure out what that ramp is going to look like? It's pretty tricky to figure out the ramp and we're not going to go into it quarter-by-quarter.
It is mid-single digit so take a little bit of a look at what you're doing.
We return back to target incentive compensation which would mean 100% incentive compensation and no profit sharing.
And I think as I mentioned profit sharing is a little over $9 million this year and incentive compensation because we had a good yearend and was a little bit higher.
So we normalized those things as we go into the view of the expense ramp for 2015.
So you're close but you might want to think about it a little bit more.
And there are no further questions at this time.
End of Q&amp;A Just a couple of housekeeping matters for everybody who might be trying to run models.
We did note that regulatory and compliance costs will be about $5 million incrementally for 2015.
So we wanted to make sure that that was noted by one who is working on their models.
Additionally we wanted to note the tax rate of 32% to 33%.
In 2014 particularly in the fourth quarter we had some positive resolution of one-off international tax matters.
And to keep our lives exciting the U.S.
approved reenactment of extender legislation before the end of 2014.
At this point that has not been extended into 2015 which is why we're looking at 32% to 33% rate for 2015.
And I think with that we've got most of the housekeeping out of the way unless anybody else has any last final question.
Just before we end the call then I would like to announce that we'll be hosting our Annual Investor Day again this year.
We'll be doing it on Wednesday September 30 here in Manhattan.
And more information will be available on the Inventory Relations website as we get closer to the event.
So thank you all for joining us today.
And this concludes Moody's fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 04:00 PM Eastern Time on Moody's website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for question-and-answers following the presentation.
I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's first quarter 2015 results as well as our updated outlook for full year 2015.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
This morning Moody's released its results for the first quarter of 2015 as well as our updated outlook for full year 2015.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our Web site at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel Moody's President and Chief Executive Officer will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Moody's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the Act I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our Web site and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's Web site.
These together with the Safe Harbor statements set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's first quarter 2015 results Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
As we have no legal or regulatory updates I will conclude the comments on our outlook for 2015.
After our prepared remarks we will respond to your questions.
In the first quarter Moody's delivered revenue of $866 million an increase of 13% over the first quarter of 2014.
On a constant currency basis Moody's revenue was up 18% year-over-year.
Excluding the 2014 consolidation of ICRA and our 2014 acquisitions of Lewtan Technologies and WebEquity Solutions as well as the impact of foreign currency translation Moody's revenue grew 16% year-on-year.
Operating expense for the first quarter was $494 million up 14% from the first quarter of 2014.
Operating income was $371 million a 12% increase from the prior year period.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $400 million also up 12% from the same period last year.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted operating income by 7%.
Operating margin for the quarter was 42.9% while adjusted operating margin was 46.2%.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.11 increased 11% from the prior year period.
We are reaffirming our full year 2015 earnings per share guidance of $4.55 to $4.65 despite our expectations for uneven global growth as well as the strength of the US dollar at current exchange rates.
I will now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the first quarter increased 13% to $866 million.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted Moody's revenue by 5%.
U.S.
revenue of $500 million was up 17% from the first quarter of 2014.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $366 million was up 7% and represented 42% of Moody's total revenue.
Recurring revenue of $124 million represented 49% of total revenue.
Looking now at each of our business starting with Moody's Investors Service total MIS revenue for the quarter was $602 million up 14% from the prior year period.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted MIS revenue by 5%.
U.S.
revenue increased 18% to $372 million.
Revenue outside of the U.S.
was $231 million increased 8% and represented 38% of total ratings revenue.
Excluding the 2014 consolidation of ICRA MIS revenue increased 12%.
Moving now to the lines of business for MIS first global corporate finance revenue in the first quarter was up 13% to $299 million reflecting increased investment-grade issuance from heightened M&amp;A activity as well as strong investor demand for high yield bond partially offsetting these gains with the contraction impact loan issuance.
U.S.
corporate finance revenue increased 13% while non-U.S.
corporate finance revenue increased 14%.
Second global structured financed revenue for first quarter was $101 million 6% above the prior year period.
This increase was primarily the result of strong U.S.
commercial real-estate issuance.
U.S.
structured finance revenue increased 13% while non-U.S.
structured finance revenue decreased 6%.
Third global financial institutions revenue of $94 million increased 10% from the same quarter of 2014 primarily due to increased revenue from U.S.
finance companies and insurers.
This benefit was partially offset by a decline in revenue from global managed investment issuers who experienced elevated activity in the prior year period.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
financial institution revenue increased 19% and 4% respectively year-over-year.
Fourth global public project and infrastructure finance revenue increased 25% year-over-year to $101 million resulting from increases in U.S.
municipal financing activity and global municipal infrastructure issuance.
U.S.
public project and infrastructure revenue increased 37% and non-U.S.
revenue increased 7%.
As a reminder MIS other consist of non-rating revenue from ICRA and Korea Investor Service or KIS.
MIS other contributed $8 million to MIS revenue in the first quarter compared to $3 million in the prior year period.
Turning now to Moody's Analytics.
Global revenue for MA is $263 million was up 11% from the first quarter of 2014.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted MA revenue by 5%.
U.S.
revenue grew by 17% year-over-year to $128 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 5% to $135 million and represented 51% of total MA revenue.
Excluding the 2014 acquisitions of Lewtan Technologies and WebEquity Solutions MA revenue grew 7% year-over-year.
Moving now to the lines of business for MA.
First global research data and analytics or RD&amp;A revenue of $150 million increased 9% from the prior year period.
Growth reflected strong sales of credit research and licensing of ratings status and 96% customer retention rate and the acquisition of Lewtan Technologies in October 2014.
Year-over-year U.S.
revenue was up 13% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 3%.
Second enterprise risk solutions or ERS revenue of $77 million grew 29% from last year.
This increase resulted from strong project delivery across all product offerings as well as the acquisition of WebEquity Solutions in July 2014.
Revenue was up 41% in the U.S.
and 22% outside the U.S.
Trailing 12-months revenue and sales for ERS increased to 28% and 24% respectively.
As noted in the past due to the variable nature of project timing in completion ERS revenue remained subject to quarterly volatility.
Third global professional services revenue decreased 10% to $37 million primarily due to the year-over-year effect of existing certain Copal Amba product line in late 2014.
U.S.
revenue decreased 4% and non-U.S.
decreased 13%.
Turning to now to expense Moody's first quarter expense increased 14% to $494 million primarily due to hiring in 2014 and the first quarter of 2015 as well as added operating expense from our 2014 acquisition.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted expense by 4%.
Excluding the 2014 consolidation of ICRA and our 2014 acquisitions of Lewtan Technologies and WebEquity Solutions Moody's expense grew 9% year-over-year.
Moody's reported operating margin and adjusted operating margin were both down slightly in the quarter to 42.9% and 46.2% respectively.
Excluding the 2014 consolidation of ICRA and our 2014 acquisitions of Lewtan Technologies and WebEquity Solutions Moody's added more than 100 basis points of operating leverage year-over-year.
Moody's effective tax rate for the first quarter was 32.9% compared to 28.9% for the prior year period primarily due to a benefit from the resolution of foreign tax audit in the prior year period.
Now I'll provide an update on capital allocation.
During the first quarter of 2015 Moody's repurchased 3.8 million shares at a total cost of $366 million and issued 2.3 million shares under its annual employee stock-based compensation plan.
Outstanding shares as of March 31 2015 total 202.2 million and 5% from the prior year.
As of March 31st Moody's had $1.2 billion of share repurchase authority remaining.
On March 9 2015 Moody's issued €500 million of 12 year senior unsecured notes at 1.75%.
This transaction provides both cost effective financing and a partial hedge for the company's euro exposure.
At quarter end Moody's had $3.1 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under its revolving credit facility.
Total cash cash equivalent and short-term investments at quarter end were $2 billion down $50 million from a year earlier.
Free cash flow in the first quarter of 2015 was $242.8 million up 54% from the first quarter of 2014 due to the increase in net income and changes in working capital.
As of March 31 2015 approximately 63% of Moody's cash holding were maintained outside U.S.
On April 17 2015 Moody's announced a quarterly dividend of $0.34 per share of Moody's common stock payable on June 10th to the stockholders of record at the close of business on May 20th.
And with that I will turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I'll conclude this morning's prepared remarks by discussing our 2015 full year guidance.
Moody's outlook for 2015 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates foreign currency exchange rates corporate profitability and business investment spending mergers and acquisitions consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
These assumptions are subject to some degree of uncertainty and results for the year could differ materially from our current outlook.
Moody's guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates including $1.48 to the pound and $1.07 to the euro.
Moody's still expects full year 2015 revenue to grow in the mid single-digit percent range.
However on a constant dollar basis Moody's full year 2015 revenue and operating expense growth rates would now both be 4% to 5% higher up from the approximately 3% higher than we communicated in February.
The company still expects diluted earnings per share in the range of $4.55 to $4.65.
For global MIS Moody's still expects 2015 revenue to grow in the mid single-digit percent range.
However MIS's U.S.
revenue is now expected to grow in the high single-digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is now expected to increase in the low single-digit percent range.
Within MIS both structured finance revenue and financial institutions revenue are now expected to grow in the low single-digit percent range.
For global MA 2015 revenue is still expected to increase in the mid single-digit percent range.
However MA U.S.
revenue is now expected to grow in the low double-digit percent range.
While non-US revenue is now expected to increase in the low single-digit percent range.
Within MA professional services revenue is now expected to decrease in the low single-digit percent range.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody's Investor Service; and Mark Almeida president of Moody's Analytics.
We would be pleased to take any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
The first question I had was just around the constant currency improvement.
Generally may be you can tie that was that increase more driven by the Moody's Analytics side or is that just more of the thing better than [indiscernible] some color there? Manav I apologize I didn’t hear the beginning of your question if you repeat that I would appreciate it? Yes it was just around the increased guidance on a constant currency basis so just what the main drivers there were? The underlying operating business is performing very well.
And if not for the decline of the euro against the dollar we obviously as we communicated we would have had even stronger performance in the first quarter.
Our current outlook as we said assumes the $1.07 to the euro and so that's absorbing as some of the strength of the underlying operating performance I think that's really the story.
And then you Linda on the expense side I mean you sited a favorable benefit of the FX on the expenses and still it looked like it was up double-digit.
So A is that mainly just because of the contribution of acquisitions and then can you help us bridge what you've given us before in terms of how we expect the expense to move quarterly to the end of the year? Yes Manav your point is correct that the FX impact actually benefits us on expenses and its 4% to 5% benefit for the rest of the year we think on the expense line.
In terms of the ramp for expenses for the rest of the year this is one of the trickiest calls that we make and there are many things that can cause this number to move around.
The expense number for the first quarter is been $494 million and from there now we’re looking at a ramp of about $30 million but again I would emphasize that could be 25 million it could be 35 million and it's impacted by a number of things including our IT projects and of course that is absence any changes in incentive compensation as we end up doing better.
So a good central scenario would be about $30 million but there is some flexibility around that.
And please keep in mind that it's one of the tougher numbers to predict that we have to give you.
And just last one for me it seems like you guys have had a pretty steady stream of the small sort of tuck in type of deals.
Can you -- is that pipeline still pretty active should we be expecting more of these going forward? As we've said before Manav we certainly are looking for opportunities to add attractive assets to the portfolio that we have.
So yes we’re actively looking.
But the opportunity to make good acquisitions that what we think our fair prices is lumpy.
And we had a series of those last year more than we would normally or have normally had in individual year.
So I would not draw from 2014 and try to extrapolate that in 2015.
We'll take our next question from Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
The question is on ERS I know is up 29% in the first quarter.
So I was just wondering if you could remind us why you're assuming such a sharp decelerations ahead mid single-digit growth for the year.
And how we should think about the puts and takes that would drive upside and downside to that guidance.
I will ask Mark Almeida if he wouldn't mind commenting on that.
Sure.
Andre I think it’s just a matter of or looking at the projects that we've got underway in the ERS business and having pretty good visibility into what work is going to get done and when it's going to be completed and what kind of revenue recognition we’re going to have.
So the first quarter was very strong.
It was largely in line with our expectations.
So again it's really pretty straight forward and it's a function of the schedule of work that’s being done and when we expect it to complete.
I would just add to that that it's also as much of a story about 2014 as it is 2015 and that we had a very strong fourth quarter I mean 2014 in ERS which is making for more difficult comparables in the back half of the year.
The other thing to add to that Andre is that we did have the WebEquity acquisition midyear last year and we’re getting some benefits from that in the first half of this year we won't get as much benefit from it in the second half.
Then same business to global professional services I know you said part of the reason it was down was because of exiting certain products.
I was wondering maybe little color on what that would have looked like if you have kept those products.
And I don’t know how FX is weighing on that business in particular given its more international expose.
Andre it's Linda and Mark and I are going to tag team on this because I'm managing Copal Amba and he will comment on some other factors.
As you saw in the earnings release and then also on the script we had exited part of the business for Copal Amba and that leads us revenue deficit of about $8 million $9 million that we’re looking to catch up from which makes it little harder to have growth on that line.
Maybe Mark wants to talk little bit more about the other components of professional services.
The other big piece in professional services is our certification business in Canada and the Canadian dollar has fallen pretty sharply so we took a very big FX hit in Canada.
So between what Linda described and the FX impacts on the training and certification business it create a lot of headwind for professional services overall.
We will take our next question from Alex Kramm with UBS.
Linda I think every quarter you kind of remind us what the pipeline is looking like though pretty straight forward question any update you want to highlight particular? Sure Alex we can have it be pipeline time.
So what I'll do is I'll note that these are the comments we've gotten from a collection of U.S.
capital market's desks and what we’re talk about here first is just U.S.
dollar markets and it doesn't align how Moody's thinks about revenue and expenses.
So I want to talk about three different areas investment-grade bonds and high yield bonds and then leverage loan.
And then I'll provide some comments on Europe.
So let's look at investment-grade bonds first for the first quarter of 2015 we have $350 billion of U.S.
issuance which is up 20% year-over-year.
For the full year the banks are now expecting 1.1 trillion of U.S.
high grade issuance note that that's up 10% from the forecast that we received in the beginning of the year that we had said at that time we're about flat.
You will note that these forecast at the beginning of the year are always very speculative and they always move around.
So the state of the U.S.
high grade markets is very strong and first quarter of '15 it was a new single quarter record for issuance in the investment grade bond markets in the U.S.
there were jumbo acquisitions from AT&amp;T at 17.5 billion and Oracle at 10 billion we’re anticipating a very busy May as investor demand remains strong.
So that's been driven by M&amp;A financing financial company and bank issuance and opportunistic activity if in fact there is a fed raise later in the year.
The current pipeline is described as robust and we don’t see that word too often with many jumbo transactions expected and the bodice that May could rival March in terms of high volume again March was 140 billion.
So we've had some pretty heavy quarters here for U.S.
investment grade.
Let's look at high yield bonds for the first quarter of 2015 a $100 billion of issuance that's up 20% year-on-year and for the full year we're looking at 300 billion of issuance again about flat outlook there is an upgrade from the prior down 10% yield that we had seen at the beginning of the year.
So the state of the market is very strong positive funds flows throughout the year so far rents are performing well and the pipeline is described as average to robust.
Now leverage loans which in some sense are a substitute for high yield bonds are not looking robust this is a result of some changes in what we're seeing from the fed if you look at the shared national credit program and a press release from November 7th that said had some concerns about high leverage levers and syndicated loans.
And again program covers loans of $20 million or more with three or more banks in the deal.
So the fed talked about it concerns that has had downward pressure on leverage loans.
In any case $100 billion for the first quarter of 2015 down 45% year-on-year 350 billion forecast for the year which is down 20%.
The market continues to see a little bit of weakness as I said because of the fed oversight and issuers however have strong demand are showing strong demand for the paper.
The pipeline is judged to be average at this point and we still see a strong year-to-date CLO issuance 30 billion for the first quarter of 2015 versus 23 billion in the first quarter of '14 and the last two weeks have been positive funds closed into leverage loans.
Now let's look at Europe and what we're seeing in Europe.
Investment grade in Europe first quarter saw very heavy supply driven particularly by surge in issuance from U.S.
based issuers wishing to lock in historically low rates as you probably saw Moody's was part of that the pipeline looks to be above average in May.
Now some of that attractive spread level and the attractive issuance conditions in Europe has weakened a little bit the conditions were probably in the first quarter but we continue to see above average pipeline.
High yield a bit different market is very strong in Europe up 30% over the same time last year a record Q1 strong April good inflows into European high yield and that market looks to be quite attractive right now.
So overall U.S.
investment grade very robust high yield bonds robust leverage loans not so much Europe investment grade pretty good may be we saw peak opportunity in the first quarter and high yield continues to look pretty good in Europe.
So is that sufficient Alex? As detailed as anyone can hope for but may be just couple of things just to add there.
Obviously you highlighted the leverage loans and the fed and also I forgot the word that you used but you said high yields and leverage loans sometimes work no counter cyclical is that the right word to use? So if leverage loans come into continues pressure do you think the high yield market can absorb that and is that from a margin profitability perspective in particular if you add the CLO side are you comfortable that those two businesses that the high yield market will be enough there from your perspective.
And then secondly sorry for the long question secondly on the European side am I reading it right that you're actually feeling better about how Europe is going so far but that it's really the FX that's the impact there? To deal with your first question Alex I would say that high yield bonds and leverage loans are substitutes for each other they are counter cyclical that's little bit of different thing it's a substitution effect.
So we are pretty indifferent as to whether we raise bonds or loans any kind of speculative grade security we're able to price a little higher for so we're happy with either.
We released a piece of research yesterday on this situation with the fed and leverage loans and it might be interesting for people on the call to get that.
But what we see is that more capital has to be allocated to those leverage loans and there is stricter lending guidance on the bulk of those leverage loans.
And the price if a loan is sold to the CLO vehicle.
So we would expect that that would continue and we will find that the bond being stronger.
Now in Europe issuance conditions are pretty good and we would also note that we think that that market continues to look good from an issuance point of view.
I will let Michel talk little bit about what we’re seeing potentially in terms of new mandates and some other things.
In terms of new mandate I think we've seen a bit of slowdown in the first quarter we see that as a really something that is cyclical essentially there is overall level of growth in Europe is still very much subdued there is continued to be some covered deleveraging.
So against that obviously we've very low rate environment and we have a banking system that continues to struggle somehow.
So although we’re very satisfied with the volume we've seen in first quarter a bank loan we see a similar contraction to the one we've seen in the U.S.
but overall I think we continue to see the structural trend in our favor in Europe basically unchanged.
Next we'll move on to Denny Galindo with Morgan Stanley.
Can you talk little bit about the share repurchases you bought back on an aggressive pace this quarter you paid a good price.
I know you use a grid to figure out exactly how much to buy at what prices but can you talk about the metrics that would cause buybacks to go up and down in the quarter.
And does in fact that you bought more shares this quarter have any bearing on how much you might buy in Q2? We do use a grid Denny as you point out but the details around that and exactly the pace at which we’re going to be buying under that grid as well as opportunistically outside that grid is not something we would want to telegraph.
Denny our guidance has been around the $1 billion for this year and pace was a little heavier in the first quarter.
We are pleased with the price that we achieved in the first quarter $95.20 per share stock crossed $110 briefly this morning.
So we’re pretty happy with that.
And we'll have to see as we always say the total amount of buybacks is subject to a lot of different factors and the pacing is something as Ray said that and actual grid prices are not something that we disclose.
And then moving on to PPIF group within MIS it sounded like that was pretty strong.
And it's sometimes hard to get good information on that space.
Do you expect public financing to kind of remain fairly strong over the next few quarters and what types of issuers are really driving that strength there? The real strength in the first quarter was coming from the U.S.
municipal sector of PPIF and that municipality is taking advantage of couple of things obviously low rate and attractive borrowing conditions but also the fact that a lot of the volume from the mid-2000 is coming off of lock up and is able to be refinanced is a driver as well.
We do think we’re going to see a good year for PPIF for the full year but realistically the pace that we saw in the first quarter I don't think that’s a central scenario.
And then just one more longer-term question longer-term and structured we're starting to see some innovation in the stacker deals from GSE or securitizing single family rentals both kind of ways to bring private money and to financing single family homes.
Could you talk about these deals or any other areas of structures which could boost the growth rate in structured products or in that RMBS bucket specifically? Sure I'll make couple of comments and Michel or Linda may wish to make remarks as well.
Certainly innovation has always been a future of the securitization market as you said some of the new products that we’re seeing is bringing private money into portions of that market.
Also changes in regulation are going to have an impact on that market going forward and would undoubtedly drive further innovation.
Whether it's the rules or 2016 that are impacting the CLO market and how the market adjusts to that the leverage limits that are being put on banks the activities in the banking sector that’s being tailed that may move capital raising and liquidity raising into the structure sector should all be characteristics of this market going forward.
Really though for the shorter term looking out over the next couple of quarters I think we will be looking for the upside coming from existing products and from a resumption of securitization activity at more robust levels coming out of Europe.
Michel I don’t know if you want to add anything to that.
Maybe if I may just one comment on single family rental it's a sector where we've been active but just in terms of number of transaction that remains fairly small sector.
Although again we've seen innovation with new structures with multiple originated deals and so that’s a sector where we have presence yes.
Denny I think you may will double check this but I think you may have confused one concept.
Stacker deals are deals that come out of the existing portfolios there is a similar type between Fannie and Freddie.
So that is to move from the government balance sheet into the capital market.
That’s not really a new product and it has nothing zero to do with private capital that’s moving balance sheet exposure for the U.S.
government into the private market not new private market origination.
So you might want to just think about that little bit.
We are not super excited about the innovation in the RMBS market at this point there are some of those products including single-family rental but these things are few and far between and what we’re really looking for is a resumption of the jumbo mortgage market the private label jumbo market but U.S.
government is still backing the vast majority of mortgages in the U.S.
So still rather limited private capital participation at this moment.
And we'll move on to Joseph Foresi with Janney.
Please go ahead.
I wondered if we could talk first about just trajectory of the margins in the analytics business.
I know it's been an area where you are trying to scale up on the software side in this quarter might have been affected by some one-time changes.
But can we just maybe could you give us a little color on sort of what you think that might look like through the back half of the year? Mark would you like to comment on that? I will comment on what we’re doing with the margins generally but as you observed and as Linda explained earlier we had some changes that we made in the Copal Amba business and some integration costs that we were dealing with there.
If you exclude Copal Amba from Moody's analytics the margin for the rest of the Moody's analytics business actually went up in the quarter and that’s even taking into account the drag we had from the two acquisitions that we made.
So we did that margin expansion on that basis in the quarter that’s the third consecutive quarter of margin expansion in MA.
So I think it's consistent with what we have been talking about and the efforts we've been making to drive margin in MA that continues to be a focus we think it's achievable but as we've described before we expect this to be a very long-term effort and something that is going to occur in a meaningful way over a number of years and not something that you are going to see a dramatic change in over the next couple of quarters.
Should we think of that as a small creep I think what that implies and fortunately our models sometime we extrapolate some of the historical and just kind of run it through going forward.
So is that a small creep year-over-year or do you think that momentum in each quarter obviously excluding the one-times carriers through the back half of the year? Well again what I am describing was modest increase in the MA margin ignoring the Copal Amba business in light of the changes that we were making over there.
So I think given that we don't really guide to margins for the business.
I think that’s pretty much all we can say there.
And there will continue to be some noise on a quarterly basis just based on the mix of activity that we’re seeing there.
And then just a larger question on issuance side for a number of years people have been talking about the amount of corporate debt out there and I think starting next year and heading into the back half of that year and going forward that’s all going to come due.
Do you have any sense of sort of how that plays from an interest rate perspective and then mixes it to the issuance market? We've talked before about the refinancing walls that we can see on the horizon.
This is particularly pronounced in the U.S.
and particularly in the spec grade area.
So beginning in 2016 but then really more of a 2017 and 2018 story we are going to see substantial refinancing needs in the corporate sector.
That’s true also in Europe and in Asia albeit to a lesser degree than what we see in the U.S.
And I'm not anticipating a dramatic increase in interest rates over this period certainly at the longer-end.
So I think even though I keep saying this and I keep being wrong even though I would expect rates to increase on a going forward basis I don't expect that to be the kind of increase that would make absolute financing terms unattractive.
And then last one for me any comments you have I know you said you really didn't have any on the regulatory changes.
Any comments or updates there? No nothing really new to report on the legal regulatory side we'll be filing our Q very shortly but again nothing notable that I would point you to as of right now.
From FBR we have Bill Bird.
Please go ahead sir.
Ray I was wondering if you can talk about you know what you are seeing right now in the reverse Yankee market? Are you seeing that pipeline build do you anticipate more companies following your lead and tapping this market? Sure Bill I am actually going to hand this over to Michel and let him offer his thoughts on this.
Well I think this is really a matter of two factors one the currency play and two the rate differential that exist between and the spread differential between the U.S.
and European markets and I think on both of these fronts I think we continue to expect to see favorable factors for such a trend.
So we don’t have a number to offer here but I think the conditions that have been favorable to date I expect it to remain in place at least for the foreseeable future for the short-term medium term.
And Bill let me just add something we show in terms of our revenue performance the revenues based on the location of the issuer rather than the market into which it is issued.
So think about that in the context of our U.S.
versus European corporate revenues.
Linda could you also give us the incentive comp accruals for the quarter year-over-year? Sure Bill just a second while we look that up.
For the first quarter of 2015 the incentive comp accrual was about $38 million and that's up from last year's $29.5 million and we're running about on target with where we expect it to be at this point in the year that number is one that obviously bounces around if we're doing worse that's number is smaller if find ourselves doing better of course that number would become a bit heavier but 38 million for the first quarter.
Just one final question your more moderate growth outlook for structured and financial institutions is that just currency or is this something else? That's really currency.
As a matter of fact most of the outlook story the change is related to currency.
Next we have Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
So I wanted to start up by asking about the very strong muni issuance up 37% just wanted to see if you could talk a little bit about the conditions that have produced that and thoughts on the pipeline there going forward for the rest of 2015? The 37% growth is really driven again by the U.S.
municipal market which had a very strong quarter.
We expect that the US market is going to continue to be strong through the year although not at first quarter levels as I think I mentioned earlier and again it's a combination of refinancing with the opportunity to do so in an attractive rate environment and the expiration of lock up periods for some of the municipal bonds.
I noticed the MIS relationship revenue growth about 3.7% just seem particularly low and I wanted to ask how much of that’s being distorted by FX and if there's anything else going on there that would explain that? No it is again an FX story I know this starts to sound like a broken record but we have reasonably large recurring revenues coming out of Europe a lot of frequent issuer pricing arrangements and the monitoring fees and they go along with that we’re seeing growth but it's that growth is really being impacted by the decline of the euro.
And then one last question for you on the research data analytics there.
Just wanted to ask about how price increases were trending so far in 2015 what your expectations are going to be there for the year? They are running pretty much in line with the way they were through 2014 so we continue to get a nice kick from pricing we anticipate that continuing.
Next we have Peter Appert with Pipe Jaffray.
So Ray your market share performance relative to peers has been really strong certainly in the first quarter I think even for the last several years.
Can you call out anything in terms of what you see driving that performance or any particular categories where you think you are picking up share? Yes our coverage has been strong and obviously we are -- we would attribute that to a combination of the work we’re doing on our analytics and the demand that that is creating from the institutional investor community for issuers to get Moody's ratings beyond that I think it's really a matter of operational execution and we’re paying a lot of attention to executing well.
Nothing fancy about that.
No particular asset class where you think -- I was thinking about for example in CMBS one of your competitors has had some issues maybe that’s helping you? Ironically not really in that area and you are correct the structured finance area in particular shows some coverage volatility it always has rating shopping is more prevalent there.
But the area where we’re strong in the commercial mortgage backed securities area in terms of multifamily or multi-property deals we've been strong in even before there were -- where there was a moratorium on the ratings from one of our competitors.
And so the strength continues but it hasn't really changed in terms of the mix we’re picking up because of external events.
And then just one other thing feels like maybe the banks in Europe are getting a little bit healthier at least there seem to be just scraping by on their version of the stress test.
Wondering if you think that has any implications in terms of this whole disintermediation thesis in terms of there is just the competitive pressure from banks being able to better serve lending requirements.
I guess the short answer Peter is no I don't think so.
The demand on financial institutions globally in terms of meeting stress test capital requirements liquidity requirements the businesses that they have been curtailed from are all continuing to put pressure on profitability willingness to make loans and I think also are increasing the awareness from corporations and municipal entities that they need access to multiple forms of liquidity in capital.
So the bond market is not a substitution for bank relationships and alternative and an addition to the banking relationships.
So 2% to 3% is still the right number in terms of incremental revenue from disintermediation or you think maybe even better than that? I think that’s probably a fair number it's going to vary quarter-to-quarter cyclically but structurally I think that’s very much intact.
And we will take Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Yes I got few questions.
Linda if I could ask you just to break down the revenues by your four segments high yield versus bank loans for the three sectors to start up please? Sure Craig we’re looking at the first quarter of 2015 over 2014 so investment grades at $87 million is running at 29% of the almost $300 million we saw in CFG for the first quarter that 29% is up from last year's 18%.
So as we said investment grades been running hot and strong and the jumbo deals are really terrific.
Spec grade is about $63 million up from last year's $53 million percentages are about the same 21% versus 20%.
Bank loans are down both absolutely and in percentage terms about $45 million versus last year's $67 million 15% of the total growth of last year's 25.
And other is at $104 million which is up from last year's 97 but on the percentage terms down to 35 versus last year's 37.
So big change there is the increase in percentage from investment grade spec rates bonds and percentage terms up a little bit bank loans down very important for everyone to note we can do okay with the change mix and we’re doing pretty well just like the fact that the investment grade piece was stronger than first quarter.
Now looking at structured first quarter 2015 versus 2014.
Looking at asset backed securities absolute numbers about 21 million about flat from last year's 23 percentages it's 21% of the total for structured of $101 million down from last year's 24.
Residential mortgage backed securities which does include covered bonds about 18 million flat from last year's 18 million percentage wise down to 18% versus last year's 19.
Commercial real-estate up $33 million from last year's 29 in percentage terms it's also up to 33% versus last year's 31.
Structured credit which is primarily CLOs up to about $29 million from last year's 25 percentagewise up to about 28% versus last year's 26.
Then FIG first quarter 2015 versus 2014 $94 million in revenue versus last year's 85 million.
Banking about 63 million up from last year's 57 that stays flat at about 67% of the percentage total.
Insurance at about 25 million versus last year's 21.5 million is up to 27% from last year's 25%.
Managed investments 3.5 million versus last year's 6.6 million is down that’s 4% of FIGs total versus last year's 7% and others about 2%.
And then lastly PPIF total was 100 million versus last year's 80 that’s a big jump PFG and sovereign up absolutely to $56 million from last year's 41 up in percentage terms 56% versus last year's 51.
Project and infrastructure also up about $45 million from last year's 40 percentagewise down to 44% from last year's 49 and that’s the total for a PPIF.
So that’s the whole view on the ratings business.
We do have the MIS other line which is something kind of newish Craig and that includes KIS and ICRA so that’s up a little bit from last year because of the ICRA consolidation $7.8 million dollars versus last year's 3.3 and of course the ICRA percentage at 56% of the total is higher because we didn't have that view as of last year.
And sorry just for clarification the MIS other is ICRA's non-ratings businesses.
The ratings agency has its revenues rolled up into the lines of business that we have for MIS already.
Like to ask a simpler question.
On the currency side Linda I think last quarter you had about 100 basis points spread between the impact on revenues versus your cost.
I believe you said that the second quarter impact 4% to 5% for reach.
Is just rounding or you really are thinking almost top each other this quarter? It's rounding Craig this is pretty hard for us to forecast.
So what we’re looking at is it's a negative 4% to 5% in revenue it's positive 4% to 5% in operating expenses as we talked about before our main exposure of the euro and the British pound at the end of the first quarter the pound was at $1.48 and the euro was at a $1.07 and we had run this year with the euro at a $1.15 with what we've had in our forecast now a very happy phenomenon for me as the CFO is the euro this morning is at a $0.12.
So we’re coming back in the right direction.
And Ray and I talk about the euro every day.
So what that will boils down to is if you were to see euro to further weaken we would $0.05 decline in the euro would cost us another 20 million in revenue but help us 4 million on the expense side.
So the net would be down $16 million or about $0.05 on EPS.
So this is actually pretty simple.
The short hand we use is if the falls another $0.05 versus the dollar it will hit is $0.05 and EPS which is a pretty simple metric for you to use.
I guess I'm also asking Linda the 7% hit as you guys calculated when you're operating profit line in the first quarter from currency are you expecting a similar type hit here on the profit line on currency? It could be Craig it depends what happens going forward as I said we’re slightly cheered by the fact that the euro is up a little bit but this is bouncing around far too much for us to put a tight range around this.
And as you saw we help guidance and we don't like to move guidance after the first quarter that would be a correct observation but this currency piece makes it a little bit harder to know where we’re going to go.
So we’re going to have to just watch it.
The euro could continue to strengthen or it could weaken from here and those two situations don't look the same and that’s why we’re being a little bit thoughtful and we'll see where we get to as the year goes on.
Lastly Linda is there anything else beside your incentive compensation you would call out on that variable cost side to help offset the potential weakness at some point down the road on the revenue side anything else of significance.
I think we will Craig we always have our 50 million in an expense flexibility if things really got difficult we can slow down on things and certainly slowing hiring would be the first thing but I always want to put some perspective on this because Moody's is a growth company and you need to think about us that way.
We're looking at 72% of the S&amp;P 500 have reported so far.
And sales growth for the S&amp;P 500 all in is minus 4.1%.
And if you take out the energy companies if you want to make that argument the growth is up 2%.
We just put up 13% growth and 18% on a constant currency basis.
So in order to do that we’re spending some money but as you know our shareholders have been telling us if we can get growth we should do that and I think we've demonstrated pretty effectively we’re able to do that despite some pretty hefty currency headwinds.
We think we've had a pretty good quarter.
[Operator Instructions].
We will continue with Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Most of my questions have been asked but I have two quick ones.
I guess Copal you said that $89 million hit from shutting down products I guess since there is different pieces in there with the certification business.
I just wanted to circle back to another question.
What's the underlying trend? Are they seeing still good growth good demand if you adjusted for that? Is it possible to strip that out and look at how it's performing without that change? I'll comment a little bit and then Mark may want to comment.
I guess we've had the confluence of two frustrating events in the professional services line and I'm managing the Copal Amba business Mark is managing the rest of professional services which includes CSI but the two really have nothing to do with each other other than that they're reported up for the same line in Moody's Analytics.
I did mention the product line that we decided to reduce in scope Copal Amba but we very much like the trends and the outlook for Copal Amba.
I think I have mentioned before it has generally Moody's like growth rates and close to Moody's like margins and right now as banks are looking to reduce costs being able to offshore knowledge processes is growing at a pretty terrific rate and we’re very pleased with what we’re seeing at Copal Amba we were just out in India last week a group of us and we’re very pleased with the opportunity that that business presents.
So just a little bit of a lapping problem and I don't know if Mark has anything more to add about CSI than what he is already said.
Mark? I would just add that in training and certification ignoring the currency impact which is quite substantial.
Let's say the underlying business is okay it's not growing as well as the rest of Moody's analytics so its low trend in that respect but it's alright.
And then Mark I guess ERS I don't know if I missed it but I think in the past you have given kind of a trailing 12 months sales activity or sales growth rate.
Can you give that? How does that… I think Linda did mention it trailing 12 months sales is 24% growth.
Does that include WebEquity or is that organic? That includes WebEquity as well.
Which would be a small piece.
Yes it's a small piece couple of points.
We will take Vincent Hung with Autonomous.
I just want to pull you back on the question on market share from before.
I am really curious as to your strong growth in MIS so it's up 12% excluding ICRA versus 6% at S&amp;P.
And I think one of the sources of dispersion is your non-U.S.
results where you saw good year-over-year increase even if you exclude MIS on that.
And S&amp;P saw a year-over-year decline.
And can you give us some color on the non-U.S.
trends you saw this quarter? I can talk about Moody's; I don't really know anything more than you do about how other firms got to their performance levels in the first quarter.
We have talked about the Moody's story pretty extensively here.
So Vincent I actually don't have a lot to add to that I apologize.
And then last question.
Do you think it would be harsh to say that leverage lending is structurally impaired? I think that banks have got to work through an evolving regulatory and profitability environment that is going to have an impact on lending.
It's also going to continue the disintermediation trend that we've been seeing.
And so I think that’s structural as well.
Vincent its Linda I am going to read you from the Fed's press release on this topic form November 7th.
It says the annual shared national credits review with them that the volume of criticized assets remained elevated to 340.8 billion or 10.1% of total commitments which is approximately double pre crisis level.
So let's assume that the banks are listening on that Fed on that front.
And perhaps they are tamping down leverage lending in this higher risk category because they have got to hold more capital against these loans as we said even if they put them into CLOs later.
So it's pretty important that that situation be understood.
And I would urge you to take a look at what the Fed is saying and also the research we have written on this topic.
We have Doug Arthur with Huber Research.
Please go ahead.
One quick question.
Linda can you just clarify I think you threw out a figure of 35 million as I believe you are referring to the quarterly trend in clause Q1 to Q4.
Can you just clarify that figure is is that revised given the so much heavier Q1 clause or there no change? First of all congratulations Doug on your joining Huber Research.
And the number of the mid case the base case we’re looking at now is $30 million of expense ramp and our first quarter expenses were 494 I think on an earlier call we had said maybe 500 for the first quarter.
And I think we have had a steeper ramp originally that might have even been $40 million to $50 million.
So we’re kind of backing off on that.
Again I would caveat this is probably the number I dislike giving the most because it can vary based on whole bunch of different things and this is cutting it pretty finally to get that midpoint of $30 million of expense ramp Q1 to Q4 but that’s our best guess as of right now.
And we'll move on to Patrick O'Shaughnessy with Raymond James.
First question is with the reverse Yankees I appreciate you saying that you book U.S.
revenue but how are you charging for reverse Yankees? Are you actually generating revenues in euro on that and having those translate back to dollars? If these are U.S.
issuers U.S.
domicile companies we would be charging those in dollars.
And then a follow-up.
S&amp;P or McGraw-Hill in their call talked about how the dollar issuance environment was very strong but the breadth of issuance was not very good and so that going to have ramifications on their growth.
And certainly that doesn't seem to be something that you guys talked about or showed up in your results.
So can you just maybe talk about do you tend to have a preference for a lot of smaller deals versus a few bigger deals.
And what’s recent environment looked like in that regard? When we look at volume and we look at count obviously we’re pleased when both are up.
But because of the way the pricing is structured I would say as a general rule seeing more smaller issuers a higher count would make more of a difference than higher dollar volume.
At this time this concludes Moody's first quarter 2015 earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 03:30 PM Eastern Time on Moody's IR Web site.
Thank you.
Welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's second quarter results for 2015 as well as our updated outlook for full-year 2015.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
This morning Moody's released its results for the second quarter of 2015 as well as our updated outlook for full-year 2015.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel Moody's President and Chief Executive Officer will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Moody's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the act I also direct your attention to the management's discussion and analysis section and the risk factors discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's website.
These together with the Safe Harbor statement set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thanks Salli.
Good morning and thank you everyone for joining today's call.
I'll begin by summarizing Moody's second quarter 2015 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
On the legal front we continue to address the litigation matters and inquiries disclosed in our SEC filings.
As we don't otherwise have any legal or regulatory update to provide at this time I will then conclude our prepared remarks with comments on our updated outlook for 2015.
After our remarks will be happy to respond to your questions.
In the second quarter Moody's delivered revenue of $918 million the 5% increase from the second quarter of 2014 was driven by strong U.S.
performance partially offset by challenging European conditions.
U.S.
revenue was up 18% from the second quarter of 2015 while non-U.S.
revenue was down 10% from the prior-year period.
Operating expenses for the second quarter was $499 million up 8% from the prior-year period.
Operating income was $419 million a 2% increase from the second quarter of 2014.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $447 million up 3% from the same period last year.
Operating margin for the second quarter was 45.7% while adjusted operating margin was 48.7%.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.28 increased 14% from the prior-year period's non-GAAP EPS of $1.12 which excluded a $0.36 gain resulting from Moody's acquisition of a controlling interest in ICRA Ltd.
in the second quarter of 2014.
Turning to year-to-date performance Moody's revenue for the first six months of 2015 was $1.8 billion an increase of 9% from the first six months of 2014.
Revenue from Moody's Investors Service was $1.2 billion up 8% from the prior-year period.
Revenue from Moody's Analytics was $542 million up of 11% from a year ago.
Operating expense for the first six months of 2015 was $993 million up 11% from 2014.
Much of this year-to-date growth reflects incremental expense from our 2014 acquisitions.
As we approach the end of 2015 the impact of these expenses will moderate.
Therefore we are maintaining our full-year guidance for expenses to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Operating income of $791 million increased 6% from 2014.
Adjusted operating income of $847 million increased 7% from the prior-year period.
Operating margin for the first half of 2015 of 44.3% was down from 45.4% in 2014.
Adjusted operating margin of 47.5% was down from 48.2%.
On a constant currency basis and excluding or 2014 acquisitions operating margin and adjusted operating margin would each have increased approximately 60 basis points year-over-year.
Earnings per share for the first six months of 2015 was $2.39 up 13% from the prior-year period's non-GAAP EPS of $2.11 which excluded the $0.36 ICRA gain.
We are reaffirming our 2015 earnings-per-share guidance of $4.55 to $4.65 despite uneven global growth and foreign currency volatility.
I'll now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the second quarter increased 5% to $918 million.
On a constant currency basis Moody's total revenue increased 10% year-over-year.
U.S.
revenue of $546 million was up 18% from second quarter of 2014.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $372 million was down 10% and represented 41% of Moody's total revenue.
Recurring revenue of $439 million represented 48% of total revenue.
Looking now at each of our businesses starting with Moody's Investors Service total MIS revenue for the quarter increased 2% from the prior-year period to a record $639 million.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted MIS revenue by 5%.
U.S.
revenue increased 17% to $412 million primarily as a result of strong performance in investment grade structured finance and public finance.
Revenue outside the U.S.
of $227 million declined 17% primarily as a result of a slowdown in European issuance as well as the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation.
Non-U.S.
revenue represented 36% of total MIS revenue.
Moving now to the lines of business for MIS first global Corporate Finance revenue of $320 million in the second quarter was essentially flat to the prior-year period.
This result reflected strong U.S.
investment grade issuance primarily from increased M&amp;A activity largely offset by lower levels of non-U.S.
speculative grade issuance as well as a challenging prior year comparable in Europe.
U.S.
Corporate Finance revenue increased 18% while non-U.S.
revenue decreased 25%.
Second global Structured Finance revenue for the second quarter was $121 million 10% above the prior-year period primarily the result of strength in U.S.
structured credit RMBS and commercial real estate finance.
U.S.
Structured Finance revenue was up 20% while non-U.S.
revenue was down 10%.
Third global Financial Institutions revenue was $90 million decreased 2% compared to the prior-year period primarily given unfavorable foreign currency translation on a weaker euro partially offset by stronger U.S.
bank rating revenue.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation global Financial Institutions revenue was up 6% from the prior-year period.
U.S.
Financial Institutions revenue was up 10% while non-U.S.
revenue was down 9%.
Fourth global Public Project &amp; Infrastructure Finance revenue increased 2% year-over-year to $100 million.
Increased U.S.
public finance issuance partially offset by a decline in global project and infrastructure revenue against a strong prior-period comparable.
U.S.
Public Project &amp; Infrastructure Finance revenue was up 10% while non-U.S.
revenue was down 11%.
MIS Other which consists of non-rating revenue from ICRA and Korea Investor Service or KIS contributed $8 million to MIS revenue for the second quarter compared to $3 million in the prior-year period.
Turning now to Moody's Analytics global revenue for MA of $279 million was up 12% from the second quarter of 2014.
Foreign currency translation unfavorably impacted MA revenue by 6%.
U.S.
revenue grew by 23% year-over-year to $134 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased by 4% to $145 million and represented 52% of total MA revenue.
Excluding revenue from our 2014 acquisitions of WebEquity Solutions and Lewtan Technologies MA revenue grew 7%.
Now moving to the lines of business for MA first global Research Data &amp; Analytics or RD&amp;A revenue of $158 million increased 11% from the prior-year period and represented 56% of total MA revenue.
Growth was mainly due to the October 2014 acquisition of Lewtan Technologies as well as strong performance in the credit research and content licensing business.
U.S.
RD&amp;A revenue was up 19% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 2%.
Second global Enterprise Risk Solutions or ERS revenue of $83 million grew 24% from last year resulting from strong project delivery across all product offerings as well as the July 2014 acquisition of WebEquity Solutions.
ERS revenue is up 44% in the U.S.
and 14% outside the U.S.
Trailing 12-months revenue in sales for ERS increased 41 excuse me 31% and 11% respectively.
As we've noted in the past due to the variable nature of project timing and completion ERS revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Third global Professional Services revenue declined 4% to $38 million primarily due to the year-over-year decline of the Canadian dollar as well as the effect of exiting certain Copal Amba product lines in late 2014.
U.S.
Professional Services revenue increased 10% while non-U.S.
revenue decreased 10%.
Turning now to expenses Moody's second quarter expenses increased 8% to $499 million primarily due to expenses from our 2014 acquisitions as well as compensation costs associated with new hires and merit increases.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted expenses by 5%.
As Ray noted reported operating margin and adjusted operating margin were 45.7% and 48.7% respectively for the second quarter.
On a constant currency basis and excluding our 2014 acquisition operating margin and adjusted operating margin would have been approximately flat.
Moody's effective tax rate for the quarter was 30.4% down from 33.1% in the second quarter of 2014.
The year-over-year reduction was due to a favorable tax ruling from New York State and a change in the New York City tax law regarding income apportionment.
Now I'll provide an update on capital allocation.
During the second quarter of 2015 Moody's repurchased 2.2 million shares at a total cost of $235 million or an average cost of $107.35 per share and issued 374 000 shares as part of its employee stock-based compensation plan.
Over the first half of 2015 Moody's repurchased 6 million shares at a total cost of $601 million or an average cost of $99.61 per share.
Outstanding shares as of June 30 2015 totaled 200.3 million shares down 5% from the prior year.
As of June 30 2015 Moody's had $1 billion of share repurchase authority remaining.
At quarter end Moody's had $3.1 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under its revolving credit facility.
Total cash cash equivalents and short-term investments at quarter end were $2 billion up $88 million.
Free cash flow in the first six months of 2015 was $554 million up 32% from the first six months of 2014 primarily due to changes in working capital.
As of June 30 2015 approximately 67% of Moody's cash holdings were maintained outside the U.S.
and with that I'll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I'll conclude this morning's prepared comments by discussing changes to our updated full-year guidance for 2015.
A full list of Moody's guidance is included in our second quarter 2015 earnings press release which can be found in the Moody's investor relations website at ir.moodys.com.
Moody's outlook for 2015 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates currency exchange rates corporate profitability and business investment spending mergers and acquisitions consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
These assumptions are subject to some degree of uncertainty and results for the year could differ materially from current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end-of-quarter exchange rates.
Specifically our forecast reflects exchange rates for the British pound and the euro of $1.57 to £1 and $1.11 to €1 respectively.
Certain components in Moody's 2015 guidance have been modified to reflect the company's current view of business conditions as follows.
Global MIS revenue for full-year 2015 is still expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
However U.S.
revenue is now expected to increase in the low-double-digit percent range while non-U.S.
revenue is now expected to be approximately flat.
Within MIS Structured Finance revenue is now expected to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range and Public Project &amp; Infrastructure Finance revenue is now expected to increase in the low-double-digit percent range.
Global MA revenue for the full-year 2015 is still expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Within MA Professional Services revenue is now expected to decrease in the high-single-digit percent range.
The effective tax rate is now expected to be approximately 31% to 32%.
And capital expenditures are now expected to be approximately $100 million to $110 million.
Before we move to the question-and-answer session I would like to highlight that Moody's Investors Service was recently voted the best credit rating agency in a 2015 poll of U.S.
fixed income investors conducted by publisher Institutional Investor.
This is the fourth year in a row MIS has won this award.
I appreciate the market's recognition of our efforts and I applaud the accomplishments of those in the MIS business.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody's Investors Service and Mark Almeida President of Moody's Analytics.
We'd be pleased to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions].
We will go first to Manav Patnaik at Barclays.
There were obviously a lot of moving parts with issuance this quarter.
There are two that sort of stuck out to me which I wanted to ask you about.
So the first one was I guess you guys mentioned RMBS deliberately in the press release so maybe just some color there in terms of how broad-based that is for you guys to call that out.
And then the other aspect was just in CLOs the total issuance seemed to have been down but it looks like you guys are doing okay in there.
So are there certain market share dynamics that you can highlight there? Well really so regarding the Structured Finance I think we've seen a good level of activity essentially in some segments of the RMBS market.
And we've seen whether it's in the single-family rental space or some of the [indiscernible] as well as some increase in Jumbo activity.
So that's really what we had.
Can you go back to -b can you maybe restate your other question? Yes your performance in the CLO market like it seems to be minus b.
CLO it's a combination I think it's essentially driven by our level of engagement in that segment of the market basically.
That's really what drove that performance.
And I would just add that the CLO issuance pipeline it remains strong.
And some of the recovery in the leverage loan sector in the second quarter compared to the first quarter probably is going to give the CLO market some legs going into the second half of the year although we do expect that to eventually slow.
And then Linda just I think if you can just update us typically on the total OpEx bridge you like to give us through the end of the year.
And I'm not sure if you want to I know you haven't historically but if I look at the Moody's ratings margins the MIS margins clearly it's still healthy but it seems to have some tough comparisons.
How depending on I guess the level of hiring as you mentioned how should we think about how that margin should progress? Sure.
I'm sorry you were looking for what regarding operating expenses? You know how you last quarter last quarter I think you gave the bridge that it should ramp up to like $40 million by the end of the fourth quarter.
The view now given what we're seeing at the end of the second quarter on the expense ramp would indicate that we expect that to be about $30 million increase from the second quarter number to the fourth-quarter number.
Now we've cautioned that a number of variables can impact that including general expense timing FX movement and incentive compensation accruals.
I would caution that obviously if we do better than plan generally our incentive compensation accrual would increase.
And of course if we do worse than plan the incentive compensation accrual would decrease.
So generally though we think the midpoint case is about $30 million of ramp.
On MIS margins I think we would note that we are providing some reinvestment in the business which we think is the right thing to do at this point because the businesses both businesses are performing very strongly and we're really pleased with the growth progress of both businesses.
10% growth constant currency is really pretty remarkable in an overall S&amp;P market which is less than 1% growth for this quarter.
So we think we're doing pretty well.
We don't give future guidance on margin side division so I think we'd rather just leave that one alone if that's okay.
We will go next to Bill Bird at FBR.
I was wondering if you could just give us your general thoughts on the new issue pipeline and maybe any commentary on what you're seeing in Europe post the Greek stand-off? Thank you.
Sure Bill.
I'll take a shot at that.
And again these of the views we gathered yesterday from U.S.
capital markets desks of various investment banks.
This information first is just for the U.S.
dollar market.
And it doesn't align with how we report.
And these numbers include both financial and non-financial issuers.
So again I'll go through the U.S.
first and then I'll make some comments on Europe.
And we would note the sort of remarkable difference in the two market areas which I'm sure Michel can speak about later regarding Europe.
First of all in U.S.
investment-grade bonds July was $100 billion month.
The first half of 2015 we've seen $700 billion of U.S.
investment-grade issuance which is up 20% year-over-year.
For the full year the expectation is now $1.25 trillion which is up 15% year-over-year.
You'll recall we started this year with a forecast that was supposed to be down 5% to 10%.
So again the variability in forecast must be noted as we move through the year.
The state of the U.S.
investment-grade market is very strong.
February March April May and July have all set monthly record issuance levels and the prevalence of the Jumbo deals have continued to drive U.S.
investment-grade activity.
The current pipeline is above average and we are seeing rates which have remained reasonably low and that has driven M&amp;A activity and there is a significant backlog of announced M&amp;A activity that needs to be funded.
Now turning to high-yield bonds the second part of this $5 billion of issuance in July 1 the first half of 2015 $180 billion which is fat year-over-year.
Full year 2015 is expected to be $300 billion which is about flat as well.
The current high-yield market is described as okay.
That's a technical term.
The LBO pipeline continues to underwhelm it is what we're noting while corporate M&amp;A further accounts for an increase in share of issuance.
And the current pipeline is noted as average.
Leverage loans in July we saw $10 billion of issuance in the first half of 2015 $190 billion which is down 30% year-over-year and the full year is expected to be $360 billion which is viewed to be down 15% year-over-year.
Interestingly the loan market right now is currently feeling stronger than the high-yield bond market and the lack of supply and continued CLO issuance is forming attractive supply-demand technicals.
Right now the pipeline is average to above average so we're seeing some slight moderation in the conditions that were brought about by the SNC the shared national credit program that we discussed on the previous call.
Moving now to Europe the situation in Europe is as different as a number of us have seen it in many years of working here.
The euro investment-grade market has been characterized by lower supply due to European market volatility and instability driven by the Greek situation.
However reverse Yankee issuance remains very active in the European market and I would caution that we book European I'm sorry we book reverse Yankee issuance in the U.S.
in the domicile of the issuer as opposed to that those bonds are actually being marketed in Europe.
Market tone has gotten stronger following the situation with Greece having some resolution and we see some companies opportunistically issuing in Europe.
Specifically Apple has a $1.25 billion sterling issue in the UK market today.
European high yield saw a slowdown in the second quarter given the Greek situation.
And there's been no high-yield issuance in July although some issues are currently being looked at and we expect that the pace of activity may now pick up.
So again I think the headline here is broadly divergent conditions between the U.S.
which is quite strong and Europe which is a good deal weaker.
And then separately I just was wondering if you could talk about the margin lift at MA some of the drivers and whether you think that kind of lift is durable.
As we've been discussing we've been making a lot of effort across MA but particularly in Enterprise Risk Solutions to expand the margin.
And we're seeing some of that start to come through and we're seeing good performance with our margin expansion effort.
So we're pleased with what we're doing.
And we are very focused on doing everything we can to sustain that.
I'm not in a position to declare victory and to promise that we're going to be able to continue to drive this degree of margin expansion quarter after quarter.
But we're doing everything we can to drive more profitability in the business.
And we're optimistic about being able to sustain this over a long period of time.
And we will go next to Peter Appert at Piper Jaffray.
So Linda you mentioned $30 million cost increase between 2Q and 4Q and I think if I'm doing the arithmetic right this would imply that fourth-quarter cost would be roughly flat on a year-to-year basis.
Is that primarily just because of the M&amp;A stuff or is there other factors? Peter we don't like to get into quarter-by-quarter activity so I think it's fair to say that your assumptions there are correct.
We are keeping a very close eye on expenses for the rest of the year given the market choppiness that we're seeing.
And we're looking to actively address that by putting resources where they need to be.
But generally you're right we've had a major ramp-up in expenses this quarter because of the quarter-over-quarter change with the acquisition costs coming on.
We do expect that that will moderate somewhat as we move through the rest of the year.
And then Linda another one of the tax rate the New York City changed.
Does that result in a permanent reduction in the rates going forward and how should we think about the tax rate going forward? Short.
I think you heard the guidance Peter on the tax rate and we did take it down by 1 full percentage point.
That's probably looks a little bit more exciting than it might actually be in practice because we are very cautious about the tax rate these days given the assertive nature of taxing authorities around the world.
It's a good change but we're cautious because one-off activity in any quarter can really change the nature of the tax rate.
But we do see a little bit of improvement there but probably not anything to get very excited about.
We are also cautious on that side because of the stronger performance coming out of the U.S.
as opposed to our European and international business but Europe in particular.
So more revenue in a higher tax jurisdiction calls for caution.
And then for Mark the strength in the ERS business you highlight some of that as early completion of projects.
So I'm wondering is it possible to think about how much of that revenue benefit is pull forward and therefore may be more conservative expectations for the second half of the year? Yes there was some pull forward there Peter.
Not an enormous amount frankly but there was certainly some and we've had a very very good first half in ERS.
The top line is up 26% in the first half of this year.
So you know what our full-year guidance is and we haven't moved that.
So clearly we're looking at not such strength in the second half.
It's worth noting that we're up against some pretty difficult comps in the second half as well.
The second half of 2014 was up 35% over the second half of 2013.
So we're going up against a strong comp and also we've got the WebEquity acquisition that we did in the middle of last year.
That is now fully in our base or close to being fully in our base so we won't get any bump from acquired revenue in ERS in the second half.
So all of those things are going to have an impact on the growth rate for the rest of this year.
Can you talk Mark though about maybe the momentum in billings as opposed to the trend in revenues as a forward indicator of momentum in that business? Yes I can tell you that business remains very very strong.
The bookings or the billings have been very good so far year to date.
We did have the largest a very large transaction our largest transaction ever in fact we booked in the second quarter of 2014.
So we didn't have anything of that scale in the second quarter of this year.
So you saw a little bit of a downtick in the trailing 12-month sales growth rate but nevertheless the sales production has been very healthy in line with our expectations maybe even a little bit ahead and the pipeline is very healthy.
So we are feeling very good about where we are with the business.
And just one last thing this is maybe for Ray or Michel.
The guidance suggests I think that the international MIS business get stronger in the second half of the year.
Is that just a function of comps or is there something specifically you'd call out that might be a driver? Yes if you look at the various segments we have the only really segment where we see a favorable development is expected in Structured Finance and Project Finance effectively.
That's where I would expect to see some improvement from what we've seen to date effectively.
We will go next to Doug Arthur at Huber Research.
Linda if I'm doing my math correctly which I'm probably not if the impact on MIS from FX was 5% total if I apply that to the down 17% international does that suggest that underlying FX adjusted was down about 6% internationally? Is that fair if you scrub out FX the FX impact on international ratings? Doug let me request that you go on to a second question if you have one while the team takes a look at how that lays out.
No that's good that's my only question.
Thanks.
Okay.
If we can come up with the answer while we're on the call here we will do that.
And we will go next to Denny Galindo of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead sir.
I want to delve a little bit more into the RMBS strength that you called out.
We had looked at issuance from a couple of sources that showed covered bonds down 15% to 20% and also private label RMBS down 15% to 20% and you didn't get the exact number but it sounds like it was up.
So I was just kind of curious are there any one-time fees that you're receiving there or a change in pricing or maybe if you could give us just a little bit more color on the RMBS number? Yes as far as the covered bonds are concerned we had a year-on-year decline in the European covered bond component of Structured Finance.
The strength was in the U.S.
RMBS sector and that related to improved market activity and increased coverage.
And as I think Linda had mentioned earlier it covered a collection of different aspects of the mortgage market the prime component single-family rentals some of the agency risk sharing deals.
So it was a good strength in U.S.
RMBS.
It's still well well below any kind of levels that we had pre-financial crisis.
So it's got a long way to go to get back to where it was.
Okay and then moving on to PPIF I don't think we've talked about that yet.
There's been some anecdotal stories about cities not using your service because you've changed the way that asses pensions but yet it sounds like you're increasing your guidance for that line item.
So I was just kind of curious if you could give us a little color on where that strength is coming from? Is this moving away from Moody's talk kind of more talk than action or any thoughts that you have on that topic? Well I guess I'm tempted to say you can't believe everything you read.
But I think the misunderstanding if there is one would be what we see as strength in our coverage and strong growth as we reported versus what's happening in the broader market.
And that embeds a cyclical shift in the mix from larger issues and issuers that would typically use more ratings to a shift in the issuers who have traditionally used two ratings rather than three or one rating rather than two.
That's a cyclical condition and is a market story rather than a Moody's story.
And if I may we have a response to Doug's earlier question.
Doug you can correct me if I am stating your question incorrectly.
I think your math led you to believe that the constant dollar reduction in MIS international revenues was down about 6% and we have taken a look at that and that is about correct.
So yes your math is correct.
Mr.
Galindo did you have anything further sir? Yes I did actually have one more question.
Just on the European issuance we talked a little bit over the last couple of quarters about new mandates there.
I know that the strength in issuance is down but are you still getting the same pace of new firms looking to establish new issuer ratings in Europe or has that slowed down this year? Yes I think we did actually see a slowdown and the slowdown is really related to what we've described happening in bank loan and high-yield where we've seen less activity and that's obviously a significant contributor in overall volume of new mandates.
So we've seen in it such a slowdown in first time mandates.
I think what is important I mean the important question for all of us obviously is that a structural or is that sort of a cyclical situation? And we do believe it's cyclical and really reflect the condition that that market is facing at the moment basically.
The only other thing I would add is that while it's down year-on-year it is up sequentially from the first quarter new mandates.
And we will go next to Craig Huber at Huber Research.
A few questions if I could please.
Linda I'm just curious first is housekeeping question here on foreign currency given the dozens of currencies you guys are in what are you budgeting the currency impact both the cost and revenues for the third quarter and the full-year? Sure.
Let me just talk a little bit about what this does for us.
And I believe where we were we had said I think we're looking at $1.11 on the euro.
Let me just double check that and if I have it right looking at the team $1.57 on the pound yes correct.
So we do have sensitivity to the currencies and our sensitivity is disproportionately heavier on the revenue line for euros Craig and heavier on the expense line in pounds.
So for a while in the second quarter we sort of had everything going the wrong way.
We have many employees in London as you know and we do have billings in euros so there you see some of the issues that we had to deal with.
So the estimated impact of FX for 2015 is we are thinking a 3% to 4% decline in revenue and a 3% to 4% benefit in operating expense.
Again as I said $1.57 is what we're looking at for the pound $1.11 for the euro and the way it lays out is a $0.05 if you will a $0.05 decline in the euro will give us about $20 million of decline in revenue.
Now that's offset to the positive by a $4 million benefit on the expense line so overall the EPS impact would be a $0.05 decline.
So this is one of the things that makes us concerned regarding the guidance view and we're going to just have to see how this plays out through the rest of the year.
But we had had the euro relatively steady at $1.11.
As the Greek situation flared up we dropped back to $1.08 and I think we're back up through $1.09 today but we're very sensitive to this number.
Secondly Linda what was your incentive comp in the second quarter? What was that in the first quarter please? Sure.
Just one second.
So the incentive compensation amount that we booked in the first quarter of this year Craig is what you want? That and the second yes.
It was $38 million in the first quarter and almost $43 million in the second quarter.
Okay and then as I typically like to ask you Linda can you just give us the breakdown of revenues for the four main categories high-yield versus investment-grade etc.
and also the other three categories? Yes sure.
We'll start with investment-grade and I'll do the comparisons first with the second quarter of 2014.
So in investment-grade that's the main story here Craig.
For the second quarter of 2015 we had about $84 million versus last year's $63 million.
And investment-grade comprises 26% of the total revenue in corporate.
So we're seeing very good activity in investment-grade as we had mentioned.
Speculative grade last year was $77 million.
This year it's $60 million and the percentage declined from 24% to 19%.
Bank loans was $67 million for the second quarter of 2015 versus last year's $75 million.
The percentage was down from 24% last year to 21% this year.
And other was up a bit from last year $108 million versus $105 million last year.
Percentage of 34% was about the same.
So again largely an investment-grade story for this year second quarter of 2015.
Turning to structured same comparison second quarter of 2015 versus 2014 ABS was up a bit last year $24 million this year $26 million.
The percentage though was 21% of the total structured for the second quarter this year.
RMBS was up at $19 million to $21.5 million and consistent at 18% of total structured.
Commercial real estate from $30 million to $32.2 million consistent at 27% of revenues.
Structured credit went from $37.3 million last year to $41.1 million consistent at 34% of the revenue.
So again there you see some movement on the ABS line and the commercial real estate and structured credit line as we mentioned.
FIG last year we had $92 million total this quarter this year we had $90.4 million.
FIG is always pretty consistent.
Banking was $63.7 million last year $62 million this year 69% of total FIG revenues.
Insurance is down a bit $24 million last your $21 million this year.
23% of total revenue versus last year's 26%.
Managed investments about flat at a little over $4 million and 5% of the total and other was about $2.3 million for us and a small piece of the $90 million total.
So a little bit weaker in the insurance sector for FIG.
Finally PPIF as compared to last year $54 million in PFG and sovereign which is up nicely from last year's $44 million.
The percentage of the total 54% Project &amp; Infra conversely is down from last year's $54 million to $45.5 million and that's 46% of the total revenue.
So those segments sort of switched places in PPIF for this year and I think that's about it Craig if that does it for you.
So I missed that small municipal structured product line you have in there? I'm not sure -- that's rolled up into another segment now and I think you're going to have to chat with Salli about that.
Rolling it okay.
My other question is for organic revenue if you could just help us with this.
Within your research business and also ERS what was the underlying organic revenue growth in each of those excluding those small acquisitions please? As it happens the benefit we got from acquired revenue almost exactly offset the FX hit.
So the constant dollar organic revenue growth rate for MA overall was a little over 12%.
And a similar story in RD&amp;A.
Overall RD&amp;A growth rate on a GAAP basis was 11% and constant dollar organic was also 11%.
We will take our next question today from Tim McHugh at William Blair.
First I want to ask just on ERS the increased pace I guess of customer deployments is that just timing of where you're at in the cycle or is there something different you've been doing the last couple of quarters that's I guess accelerating how quickly you can get to that revenue recognition point and customer deployment point? There is a lot that we're doing to try to speed up the implementation of our projects and thus the recognition of our revenues.
And that is an ongoing project so it's not as though we've done it and we've got a structural change in the business that we're going to be able to sustain from here on out.
But it's something we're very focused on and we're pleased with the traction we're getting there.
It is very much a strategic focus for us and it's something we're trying to do.
It's a function of the work that we're doing with the product to make the product more have more standard features built into the product and focus on selling those standard features and standard versions of the product.
So that accelerates or facilitates the implementation of projects.
So the short answer to your question is yes and we're making good progress there but like I said that is an ongoing focus for the management of the business.
Tim it's Linda let me just add one element of clarification.
On the finance side and Mark and I and our teams work together very closely on ERS revenue recognition.
Software revenue recognition accounting is a very detailed and challenging sort of thing and we're very cautious that we handle revenue recognition appropriately.
I think one of the things we've learned to do better is to better match expenses with revenues and to ensure that we stage completion of projects.
So I think as a whole the corporation has gotten better at managing this but we're very cognizant of the revenue recognition rules and we're very thoughtful about how we're dealing with those.
And ERS in the U.S.
the growth rate picked up I guess 19% versus 13% last quarter steady growth rate there.
So I guess what drove the acceleration this quarter versus what you've been seeing? Well we have the impact of the WebEquity acquisition.
That is a very heavily U.S.
focused business so you've got a very significant contribution from WebEquity.
But as I said earlier business generally is very good in MA across-the-board but in ERS specifically and that would be true in inside and outside the U.S.
Our next question today is from Robert Simmons at Janney.
Hi I'm asking for Joe Foresi.
You've talked about reversing the issuance of it.
I was wondering if you could quantify that all like how big a market is that and how long do you expect that to remain strong for you? Any sort of detail would be helpful.
Sure.
Let me just mention that it's very choppy.
The strongest month for issuance is probably March April and then the market sort of went away as concerns arose about what was happening with Greece.
Now that those have somewhat moderated and that doesn't say that those are solved we are seeing a pickup in potential interest in the reverse Yankee issuance perhaps spotlighted by as I said the Apple deal in the Sterling market today.
It's very hard to predict this because it is very market dependent and we'll have to see how conditions layout.
We would also expect that going into August is seasonally a less active month in the European markets as a whole.
So we may see some hiatus here as we go through August and potentially some strengthening as we move back into the September time period.
But this is a hard one to call and it moved month by month.
Therefore we wouldn't be giving guidance on that and we're happy to talk about this a bit further as we get to Investor Day on Wednesday September 30.
Can you quantify at all how big it is for you guys though at the time? I don't think we've split that out.
I don't know if anyone else has any thoughts on that.
No can't give too much more detail on that.
And we will move next to Bill Warmington at Wells Fargo.
So I was hoping that you might be able to talk about some of the international MIS business lines on a constant currency basis.
I know you've talked about the group as a whole but it seems like some of those business lines are doing better than the reported revenue would indicate on the surface.
Maybe not but it would seem it.
We can give you some information on the FX impact internationally by line of business.
I wouldn't be able to break it down more finely done that.
But the FX impact on international corporate finance was $11 million on Structured Finance was $6 million Financial Institutions was $7 million PPIF was $4 million.
On the MA side RD&amp;A international it was $7 million ERS international was $4 million and Professional Services it was $1 million.
And then one other question just on the stress testing in Europe I wanted to ask about how the Greek turmoil was impacting demand for those services.
I figure you can make a case for it either positive or negative but I wanted to check.
The Greek situation really hasn't had an impact on our work in Europe in any way frankly.
There's lots of demand for what we're doing among European banks and I can't say that the situation in Greece has had any impact at all.
And we will go next to Vincent Hung at Autonomous.
Just one question from me maybe I missed this but did you see any evidence of a reversal in the disintermediation trend in Europe this quarter? A reverse in the disintermediation trend? Or re-intermediation? As we said the number of new mandates that we are seeing year-over-year is down but sequentially first quarter to second quarter is up.
We attribute that not to banks becoming particularly aggressive in lending rather than the attractiveness of bond markets but more to a demand question.
So I think as we see growth resume in Europe we are going to see an increase in new mandates again.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
McDaniel.
I'll turn the conference back over to you sir.
Okay I want to thank you for joining us.
And as Linda mentioned we look forward to speaking with you on Investor Day which is September 30 and until then I hope everyone enjoys their summer.
Once again this does conclude today's Moody's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
As a reminder a replay of this conference will be available after 3:30 PM Eastern time on the Moody's website.
Once again thank you for joining us.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody's Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference lines for question-and-answers foll0wing the presentation.
I would now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody's third quarter results for 2015 as well as our updated outlook for full-year 2015.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
This morning Moody's released its results for the third quarter of 2015 as well as our updated outlook for full-year 2015.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel Moody's President and Chief Executive Officer will lead this morning's conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Moody's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the act I also direct your attention to the Management's Discussion and Analysis section and the Risk Factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission's websites.
These together with the Safe Harbor statement set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I'll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thank you Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today's call.
I will begin by summarizing Moody's third quarter and year-to-date 2015 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
After our remarks we’ll be happy to respond to your questions.
In the third quarter despite uneven capital market activity and foreign exchange headwinds Moody's achieved revenue of $835 million a year-over-year increase of 2%.
On a constant currency basis Moody's revenue grew 7%.
Operating expense for the third quarter was $485 million up 4% from the third quarter of 2014.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted expense by 4%.
Operating income was $350 million flat versus the prior-year period but an increase of 5% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $378 million an increase of 1% compared to the same period last year.
Operating margin for the third quarter of 2015 was 41.9%.
Adjusted operating margin was 45.3%.
Both GAAP and non-GAAP EPS increased 14% from the prior year period to a $1.14 and $1.11 respectively.
Non-GAAP EPS excludes a $0.03 benefit from a legacy tax matter in the third quarters of both 2014 and 2015.
Turning to the year-to-date performance Moody’s revenue for the first nine months of 2015 was $2.6 billion an increase of 7% from the first nine months of 2014 or 11% on a constant currency basis.
Revenue of Moody's Investor Service or MIS was $1.8 billion an increase of 5% from 2014 or 10% on a constant currency basis.
Moody's Analytics or MA revenue of $829 million was 10% higher than the prior year period or 15% on a constant currency basis.
Operating expense for the first nine months of 2015 was $1.5 billion up 9% from 2014.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted expense by 4%.
As we mentioned last quarter this year-to-date growth reflects incremental expense from our 2014 and 2015 acquisitions.
As we approach the end of 2015 the impact of acquisitions on expense growth will moderate.
Therefore we are maintaining our full-year guidance for expenses to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Operating income of $1.1 billion increased 4% from 2014 or 10% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusted operating income of $1.2 billion increased 5% from the prior year period.
Operating margin for the first nine months of 2015 of 43.5% was down from 44.5% in 2014.
Adjusted operating margin of 46.8% was down from 47.3%.
On constant currency basis and excluding our 2014 and 2015 acquisitions operating margin and our adjusted operating margin would have increased approximately 50 and 60 basis points respectively year-over-year.
GAAP EPS for the first nine months of $3.54 was up 2% from $3.48 in the prior-year period.
Non-GAAP EPS of $3.51 for the first nine months of 2015 grew 14% from $3.09 for the same period in 2014.
Non-GAAP EPS excludes a $0.03 benefit from a legacy tax matter in both the year-to-date 2015 and 2014 periods.
Year-to-date 2014 non-GAAP EPS also excludes $0.36 gain resulting from Moody’s acquisition of a controlling interest in ICRA Ltd.
in the second quarter of 2014.
We are reaffirming our full-year 2015 EPS guidance of $4.55 to $4.65 which now includes a $0.03 benefit from a legacy tax matter.
I'll turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I'll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody's total revenue for the third quarter increased 2% to $835 million and was up 7% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
revenue of $482 million was up 7% from the third quarter of 2014.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $353 million was down 4% and represented 42% of Moody’s total revenue.
Recurring revenue of $447 million represented 54% of total revenue.
Looking now at each of our businesses starting with Moody's Investor Service.
Total MIS revenue for the quarter was $548 million flat to the prior year period but up 5% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
revenue increased 7% to $353 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue declined by 10% to $196 million and represented 36% of total MIS revenue.
Moving now to the lines of business for MIS.
First global Corporate Finance revenue of $248 million in the third quarter was down 5% from the prior-year period.
On a constant currency basis revenue declined 1%.
These result reflected lower levels of global speculative-grade issuance partially offset by strong U.S.
investment grade issuance primarily from increased M&amp;A activity.
U.S.
Corporate Finance revenue increased 5% while non-U.S.
Corporate Finance revenue decreased 22%.
Second global Structured Finance revenue for the third quarter was $113 million up 10% from the prior-year period or 15% on a constant currency basis.
Growth was primarily the result of strength in U.S.
commercial real estate finance as well as an increase in structured credit monitoring revenue.
Additionally we saw increased Structured Finance issuance in EMEA primarily in RMBS and structured credit.
U.S.
revenue was up 12% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 6%.
Third global Financial Institutions revenue of $90 million decreased 3% compared to the prior year period primarily given unfavorable foreign currency translation on a weaker euro partially offset by stronger U.S.
bank rating revenue.
On a constant currency basis Financial Institutions’ revenue was up 4% year-over-year.
U.S.
Financial Institutions revenue was up 8% while non-U.S.
revenue was down 10%.
Fourth global Public Project and Infrastructure Finance revenue increased 2% year-over-year to $91 million.
On a constant currency basis revenue increased 7% year-over-year.
Increased U.S.
public finance activity was partially offset by a decline in project finance issuance.
U.S.
Public Project and Infrastructure Finance revenue was up 2% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 4%.
MIS Other which consists of non-rating revenues from ICRA and Korea Investor Service or KIS contributed $7 million to MIS revenue for the third quarter compared to $4 million in the prior-year period.
This increase over the prior year period was primarily due to consolidation of the non-rating business lines of ICRA.
Turning now to Moody's Analytics.
Global revenue for MA of $287 million was up 6% from the third quarter of 2014 or 11% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
revenue grew by 8% year-over-year to $130 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue increased 5% to $157 million and represented 55% of total MA revenue.
Moving now to the lines of business for MA.
First global Research Data &amp; Analytics or RD&amp;A revenue of $158 million increased 10% from the prior-year period or 15% on a constant currency basis.
Growth was mainly due to strong performance in the credit research and content licensing businesses.
Additionally the October 2014 acquisition of Lewtan Technologies contributed approximately 3 percentage points of growth in the quarter.
U.S.
RD&amp;A revenue was up 16% while non-U.S.
revenue was up 3%.
Second global Enterprise Risk Solutions or ERS revenue of $92 million grew 14% from last year or 18% on a constantly currency basis.
This growth was driven primarily by strong project delivery and the regulatory solutions and loan originations verticals.
U.S.
ERS revenue was up 7% while non-U.S.
revenue was up 17%.
Trailing 12-month revenue in sales for ERS increased 27% and 12% respectively.
As we've noted in the past due to the variable nature of project timing and completion ERS revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Third global Professional Services revenue declined 19% to $37 million.
On a constant currency basis revenue declined 14%.
This result reflected the impact of exiting certain Copal Amba product lines in late 2014 as well as attrition outpacing sales growth at Copal Amba as global banks adjusted their business activities.
U.S.
Professional Services revenue was down 28% while non-U.S.
revenue was down 13%.
Turning now to expenses.
Moody's third quarter expense increased 14% to $485 million primarily due to incremental costs from 2014 and 2015 acquisitions additional compensation expense for merit increases and hiring as well less investments in technology.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted expenses by 4%.
As Ray noted Moody's operating margin and adjusted operating margin were 41.9% and 45.3% respectively for the third quarter.
On a constant currency basis and excluding our 2014 and 2015 acquisitions operating margins and adjusted operating margins would have increased by approximately 40 basis points and 70 basis points respectively.
Moody's effective tax rate for the quarter was 32% down from 33.5% in the prior year period.
The year-over-year decline was largely due to reduced state and local taxes resulting from changes in New York State and New York City tax laws.
I'll now provide an update on capital allocation.
During the third quarter of 2015 Moody's repurchased 2.9 million shares at a total cost of $304.9 million or an average cost of $105.03 per share and issued 295 000 shares as part of its employee stock-based compensation plan.
For the first nine months of 2015 Moody's repurchased 8.9 million shares at a total cost of $905.6 million or an average cost of $101.37 per share.
Outstanding shares as of September 30 2015 totaled 197.7 million down 5% from the prior year.
As of September 30 2015 Moody's had $658 million of share repurchase authority remaining.
At quarter-end Moody's had $3.1 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under our revolving credit facility.
Total cash cash equivalents and short-term investments at quarter-end were $1.9 billion up $263.7 million from December 31 2014.
Free cash flow in the first nine months of 2015 was $827.6 million up 27% from the first nine months of 2014 primarily due to changes in working capital.
As of September 30 2015 approximately 75% of Moody's cash and cash equivalents were maintained outside the U.S.
On October 21 2015 Moody’s announced quarterly dividend of $0.34 per share with Moody’s common stock payable December 10 to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 20.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I'll conclude this morning's prepared comments by discussing the changes to our updated full-year guidance for 2015.
A full list of Moody's guidance is included in our third quarter 2015 earnings press release which can be found on Moody's Investor Relations website at ir.moodys.com.
Moody's outlook for 2015 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates foreign currency exchange rates corporate profitability and business investment spending mergers and acquisitions consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
These assumptions are subject to some degree of uncertainty and results for the year could differ materially from our current outlook.
Our guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end-of-quarter exchange rates.
Specifically our forecast reflects exchange rates for the British pound and the euro of $1.52 to £1 and $1.12 to €1 respectively.
As I noted earlier we are reaffirming our full-year 2015 EPS guidance of $4.55 to $4.65 which now includes as $0.03 benefit from a legacy tax matter.
However certain components of our 2015 guidance have been modified to reflect our current view of business conditions.
Global MIS revenue for the full-year 2015 is still expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
However non-U.S.
revenue is now expected to decline in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Within MIS Corporate Finance revenue is now expected to be approximately flat and Public Project &amp; Infrastructure Finance revenue is now expected to increase in the high-single-digit percent range.
Global MA revenue for full-year 2015 is still expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
However non-U.S.
revenue is now expected to be approximately flat.
Full-year 2015 capital expenditures are now expected to be approximately $90 million.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody's Investor Service; and Mark Almeida President of Moody's Analytics.
We'd be pleased to take any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Yes.
Hi.
Thank you.
I just wanted to clarify just on the organic growth for the quarter and also implied in guidance so the 7% total I guess constant currency.
What’s the organic number and I guess is that just ICRA and Lewtan or is there anything else in there and then just on the guidance what the contribution assumption is? Sure.
As you noted that constant currency growth for Moody’s was 7%.
And if we look at constant currency growth organic-only it would be 5%.
And that excludes ICRA Lewtan and we had the small acquisition earlier this year of Equilibrium.
Got it.
Okay.
And then I guess I just wanted to understand maybe get a little bit of color on how you guys are looking at the environment today? Obviously I think guidance implies fourth quarter will be another uninspiring issuances environment.
And then I just wanted to try and get your initial feelings of what 2016 trends might look like with the context of what you guys have talked about before in terms of heavy maturity and refinancing pipeline coming sort of in the back half of the year.
So just trying to get an understanding.
Is it going to be tail of two halves? Just any sort of color you can give would be helpful.
Yes I'll let Linda to start off with this.
I know she has some information and then I'll add some color as appropriate.
Sure Manav.
I'll go through the three sectors that I usually go through U.S.
investment grade bonds U.S.
high yield and U.S.
leverage loans with the reminder again that this is a consensus view from speaking to a number of the investment bank’s trading desks and does not represent Moody’s view but rather again the consensus of these investment banks.
This has been a particularly difficult period which makes our job for the end of the year here a high little bit more difficult to forecast which is what we’re trying to work through.
Now for investment grade bonds the expectations for October now is about $126 billion of U.S.
issuance in investment grade bonds.
It has been very choppy however.
Late August and early September had three weeks of zero issuance and October until this week had been quite light for supply.
And only recently only this week have we seen issuance pickup.
So we are looking at about $38 billion for this week.
And yesterday of course with the Microsoft deal we did see $19.5 billion in issuance.
Now a lot of this is caused by the spread.
Spreads widened out and in fact now they are 5 basis points higher than their lows in August and they’ve retraced or come back in 15 basis points from the highs in early October.
So it is possible that with spreads coming back in and only being 5 bps up from August that we could continue to see heavier issuance as we move into November out of the blackout period and in fact the pipelines look pretty good for next week.
So we’re offsetting that against the view with the potential for the December rate hike.
The futures currents are now showing 50% possibility of the December rate hike but again we think that the right hike is not all the news and in fact the spread piece is very important as well.
So those are some of the factors that we’re looking at and the pipeline is described as robust.
So the pipeline we can see currently is $200 billion.
So some mixed views there but some very good improvement for next week but again we feel we have probably six more weeks for this year for issuance maybe seven.
High yield is a different story.
October month to-date had been about $3 billion and year-to-date about $230 billion which is down 15%.
The market has been quite subdued.
September and October were the two lowest volume issuance months in 2016 and the issue here is spreads.
And spreads are 40 basis points wider than at the August lows but they have come in a 100 basis points from their recent highs in October.
So you might want to think of this as spreads have come in two-thirds from the recent highs which is a good trend.
We're seeing very good funds inflows into high yield bond funds which is good and we are expecting some activity pick-up in November given that the technical backdrop is improving.
There are lot of deals in the market and that should be helpful the pipeline as described as moderate.
And finally leverage loans month-to-date $15 billion in the U.S.
year-to-date $290 billion which is down 30% year-over-year.
Since early August volumes have been low but leverage loans have lifted volatility and the market better than high yield bonds.
Some stability looks to be helpful.
And we see that CLO creation continues which is helpful to us.
So on the leverage loan front weak fund inflows and a slowish new issue calendar.
We are still working with the new Shared National Credit or SNC rule and the pipeline here is described as moderate.
Interestingly if you look to Europe we've seen some improvement in the tone in Europe in the past seven to 10 days.
Mr.
Draghi’s comments regarding the ECB and a potential for more QE has been helpful and we’re seeing good reverse - Yankee issuance Procter &amp; Gamble had a big deal this week.
However as the Euro/US dollar basis widens that may back off of little bit.
Interestingly we would note with about two-thirds of the companies reporting that top line sales ex-energy for U.S.
companies reporting in the third quarter is only four-tenths of 1%.
So in that regard we are actually feeling pretty good about these numbers that we’ve put up.
And I’ll let Ray go to the prognostication back in 2016 which is still away  Manav.
Yes.
Just a little bit more color.
I would also note that the pipelines in Structured Finance are good but the movement through those pipelines is again going to be sensitive to spreads.
And so we'll have to see if spreads continue to move in from where they were earlier in October.
Secondly we still think that the non-U.S.
business is going to be probably more challenged overall than the U.S.
business through to the end of the year.
The good news looking ahead to 2016 is it at least where the exchange rates are today we will not have the same material impact on performance in 2016 that we've had from the movement that we saw about a year ago on the Euro and the Pound as against the Dollar.
Obviously that's an assumption that rates stay about where they are now.
Now looking ahead to next year to the extent that we see an increase in federal funds rates and that's an indication of a belief that we have some sustainable economic growth here in the U.S.
I think that's a good news story.
We don't expect to see rates move rapidly or dramatically but we would like to see a signal that the economy looks like it's on a sustainable growth path and I think that's going to help both the U.S.
and non-U.S.
businesses.
And also looking out into 2016 as we get later in the year we begin to approach the refinancing walls that had built up in the corporate finance sector in particular.
So I would keep an eye out for that looking out over the course of next year.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
This is super helpful.
I'll get back in the queue.
Thanks Manav.
We will now go to Bill Bird with FBR.
Thank you.
Ray I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about Structured Finance.
It looks like you had a nice uptick in growth.
Do you think that uptick is durable? And then separately for Linda.
How do you think about managing expenses in the context of trends being a little bit slower and maybe you could give us the incentive comp accrual? Thank you.
Yes.
We do think that the growth we've seen in Structured Finance is durable.
As I mentioned a couple of minutes ago it is going to be sensitive to spreads and so we have to keep an eye on that.
We've seen particular strength in commercial real estate and that strength has been really because the transactions that are being brought to market are conduit transactions which is where we have our strength and there is significant amount of refinancing that has to occur there.
We've also seen some good growth in European RMBS.
And we are going to look to see how sustainable that is but it was a good new story in Q3.
Overall again I think we would expect to see more strength in the U.S.
than we will see outside the U.S.
for near-term.
But see some promising developments with respect to European Structured Finance.
And Bill on your expense question very carefully moderating our expenses in light of these conditions and we think we've shown pretty good discipline down the P&amp;L.
The fact that 2% revenue growth is 14% EPS growth we are pretty pleased about that.
What we see is that operating expenses in the quarter were up 4% and we've worked hard to make sure we keep the level reasonable.
I think we would note first that our headcount is up 4% period-over-period and we are very careful on the hiring front.
Most of that hiring has gone to the lines of business that are the revenue producers as opposed to shared services where most of our headcount has been in the lower cost jurisdictions.
Secondly I see that our CapEx we are looking at about $90 million for this year.
That's down a bit from what we had expected when we first did guidance.
So we are being very careful about our CapEx and being cautious about what we are doing with our projects.
The reasons for that CapEx spending being pulled in is because our projects are actually coming in at a lower cost than we expected which is remarkable and positive and we are also looking at our performance and our incentive compensation as you noticed.
Very important that everyone understands that incentive compensation is the first line of defense to protect the margins.
Again the margin was 41.9% in the quarter which we are pretty pleased about.
So we will - reflects the incentive compensation line and given our views on the fourth quarter and what's happened here in the third quarter last year in fact during this period we put up almost $47 million of incentive compensation.
This year for third quarter we put up $33 million in incentive compensation.
So there is $14 million of savings which goes back to the shareholders which in fact is very helpful in protecting the margins.
So incentive compensation is impact only 10% of comp in this quarter and last year at this time it was 15%.
So again incentive compensation flexing down $14 million that’s 30% which is a pretty heavy adjustment which just shows what we do in the incentive comp line in order to make sure that we are doing the right thing.
Now sequentially if you want to think about incentive comp we are looking at a level that probably should be about the same as the fourth quarter looks like what we expected to.
However Bill I would very strongly caution that if things break to be upside we may have to improve a little bit more for incentive compensation in the fourth quarter.
So flattish if things come in as we expect but as I just said as conditions are seemingly improving a bit we could flex to the upside and that would take incentive comp up a bit.
So that's pretty fulsome answer to your question and hope that it’s everything you know wanted to know about.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
We will now go to Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Guess now it’s good afternoon.
My first question we can all observe lot of the macro factors in issuance numbers to come out daily or weekly but I'm wondering is there anything that you [indiscernible] new in terms of the value proposition that you’re clients and a way of capturing more of the value in the form of prices opposed to just being driven by the volume trends that we should be mindful of the forecast? We have communicated at a high level the contribution that we expect price to make and certainly we are looking at what we can do in terms of the value proposition to support price increases.
And this is our research our communications the quality of our insights all of that is a package on the ratings side of the business in order to maximize the value proposition.
We are also looking at cost in terms of thinking about pricing but really the priority is value proposition.
That's the same story on the Moody’s Analytics side as well and that is the amount of information we can deliver the data that we can deliver how usable we can make that data and really looking at the overall utility value that we give through the data and service projects that we have on the Moody’s Analytics.
So it's both sides of the business.
Yes Andre it’s Linda.
I would note that in terms of the research we are putting out we know specifically very high interest in our comments specifically on Volkswagen Glencore the City of Chicago Commonwealth of Puerto Rico also the pieces we've been putting out on the banking systems and also China and India.
So our research effort has really been beefed-up and we feel it's very helpful to the investors.
We had commented on at Investor Day 3% to 4% price increases.
Again we are very thoughtful about how we handle that.
We would note there is good pricing power in Moody’s Analytics as well as Moody's Investor Service.
But again we do feel that getting a rating provides 25 to 50 basis points of better spreads for issuers as we hear from various capital markets desks.
But we do believe that ratings provide real value for issuers in the marketplace.
So hope that helps you.
And are you seeing the change in the Structured Finance competitive environment? I know one of your main competitors that has some settlements in there is investing to improve and there may be some other smaller players out there that are looking to go after this business as well.
So are you seeing any changes out there? That's true and that's not a change.
It has always been a business that's been an area of interest for our competitors not surprisingly but it's also a business that is very interested in the quality of opinion and insight especially in more distressed markets and that works to Moody's benefit.
So we certainly want to maximize the value of our commentary and the predicted content of our ratings in that area and ironically we do benefit from some of the stress in the market because that’s when Moody’s ratings matter most.
Thank you.
We'll now go to Alex Kramm with UBS.
Hi good morning or good afternoon rather.
Just want to come back to the earlier questions around the environment and issuance trend.
I appreciate all the color.
I guess the comment and question I would make is obviously we’ve seen that movie several times over the last two three years that issuance dries up credit spreads slow out and then things stabilize and everything is good again.
So I guess - and also as the highlight I think flows into bond funds has been increasing as though it seems like we might be on that normalization base again but just wondering that when you're talking to DCM desks and others is there anything that they highlight that might be changed or different this time around that gives you a little bit more concern about maybe not the swing back that we've seen over the last year several times or nothing new? Alex I think this is - as you pointed out these are ebbs and flows in the marketplace that we are quite used to.
And I think we would say generally we feel we’re observing somewhat better information regarding investment grade as I said earlier and high yields with spreads having retraced 100 basis points things could break to the positive side somewhat less so with leverage loans.
And obviously the short answer is it all depends.
If we get to markets stability that would be terrific and this week has been more stable than October to-date but first three weeks of October were very very choppy.
So this could go either way and that makes forecasting a little bit more difficult than it usually is particularly at this late point in the year.
But I'll let Ray comment a little bit further on what he thinks.
No I've - really just echoing Linda’s comments.
There has not been any new - and I would characterize distressing news.
The market uncertainties that built in the late summer early fall with volatility in Chinese equity markets with uncertainty about the Feds improvement on interest rates clearly transmitted through the bond market in terms of volatility and spread widening and now that is beginning to settle.
I would anticipate it’s going to continue to settle absent new and unexpected news.
So we just have to see.
The Fed I think has tried to provide clarity.
The ECB has provided clarity and broadly speaking I think those are the kinds of things that are going to help market issuance activity going forward.
It’s just late in the year now.
So we'll have to see how much of a difference it makes.
Alex one other quick note on the investment grade side.
You're probably aware the big banks report first as we move through the reporting cycle and as a result of that they were first to market in October.
So for the first three weeks of the month 50% of supply came from the big issuers and many of those are larger some of them are frequent issuer pricing programs.
So that has caused October to be very backend-loaded for us and the corporates would probably people can issue now as they come through the blackout period.
So again we could see a very heavy November like anything over a $100 billion in issuance we view in the U.S.
investment grade market as a very good month.
But we've got to see how issuance stacks up against how much more here we have left and we'll see how that goes.
Thanks for that additional color but then I guess switching gears - I guess one other things you’ve - I think Paul [ph] talked about it as well there is obviously different reasons why people issue and I think a lot of us always focused on the refinancing bond and things like that but this year I think M&amp;A has been a much bigger component than in past years and everybody can make assumptions about the M&amp;A pipeline but it looks like there is a deal every day and that's certainly different than what we've seen over the last few years.
So just curious in terms of the money you make on some of these deals can you just like broadly speaking - I know it's very detail but broadly speaking any difference between normal issuance from risk financing CapEx things like that normal growth versus M&amp;A may be the deals are larger or maybe it's more levered to IG.
But just generally speaking do you like one better than the other or no difference? No.
Yes I mean there is going to be specific instances where we prefer one or the other but generally speaking no we would be indifferent but welcome activity coming from either source of issuance.
Okay.
Good afternoon.
Thank you.
We will now go to Denny Galindo with Morgan Stanley.
Hi there.
Thanks for taking my questions.
It sounds like Europe is driving some of the conservatism on your corporate issuance guidance and rates are lower there and it would seem like would drive issuance.
Are there any particular countries that are just not issuing as much as you think that they usually would or is there any regional weakness over there that you can talk about? Let me see if Michel Madelain would like to comment on that.
Michel? Sure.
Yes thanks.
Thanks Ray.
No I don't think there is - the trend that’s in Europe are pretty generic across the region.
We had investment grade active in the first quarter.
Since then it's been very rather slow.
What we see in high yield also is shared across the board.
So there is no - the largest country in terms of issuance seem to be U.K.
France Germany and Italy and the trends are very much across the board.
Okay.
And then just also along those lines in Europe.
Can we have an update on disintermediation in terms of like new issuer mandates that sort of thing? Is that still growing year-over-year? You’re still getting new companies to get a new issuer rating or are any change in the trend there? Yes it's continuing to grow very nicely.
The expectation at this point is we would have probably about 800 new rating mandates may be a bit more for the full-year 2015.
For those of you who followed us closely you know that’s down from a peak of about 1 000 that we had last year but it is still very strong compared to the historical new mandate rates.
So we are very pleased to see that.
Denny also I would note that as the global banks go public with their new strategies under new leaders and there are three of those that I can think of right away you'll notice - and I'm not going to name them but certainly those global banks have said that they are stepping back from certain markets and certain areas that they feel are not providing appropriate profitability particularly where capital requirements are high in certain of those market activities.
So we would see that that would be a pretty clear view about what's going on particularly with this intermediation but we are seeing changes of strategy with a number of the European banks and it's just something that should be watched.
That's a perfect segue into my last question.
Professional services how much exposure do you have to some of these banks that are cutting their employment and professional services and are you seeing - when they cut employment that they increase your work from professional services or decrease or - because I know that you can make the argument that it's helping them save costs by outsourcing more to your professional services group.
But any comments there on how much exposure it has to the big bank layoffs and also if you're seeing - is that positive or negative for you? Sure.
Denny it's probably frustrating for you the answer on professional services and Copal Amba more specifically is it depends.
The banks react differently to these sorts of stresses and some are increasing their Copal Amba teams and some are making other decisions.
While I’ve got the floor here for a minute I’ll talk a little bit about professional services.
And that business includes basically two things Mark’s training business and particularly the Canadian Securities Institute business and the Copal Amba business that I'm running.
So we've had a few issues in this area.
And as you know we've been thoughtful about what we’re doing with the guidance there.
The quarter-over-quarter changes - I'm sorry the year-over-year changes for the third quarter look at about an $8 million decline 2015 versus 2014.
And Mark and I have worked through this and about a third of this relates to CSI.
And mainly that's due to the FX effect of the weak Canadian dollar.
About two-thirds of what's going on is Copal Amba.
And we thought we should be clear that last year we had a reversal of a reserve in the third quarter from the prior period which if you take that out that makes up about half the difference of what's going on with Copal Amba.
So we didn't have any such reserve reversals this year so that made the comparable tougher.
So some of this is just - that’s a one-off and that’s timing.
So we're seeing good new sales but there has been some attrition and we are seeing some good opportunities as we said because banks are laser-focused on costs.
But it takes a bit for all that to work through the system.
And Copal Amba is being used very energetically within our own company from Moody's Investor Service and particularly Moody’s Analytics and Shared Services.
We’re very much growing our own Moody Shared Services India and that is very helpful to us.
So we think we are in the right place with Copal Amba but we've got just a bit of choppiness as the global banks adjust what they are doing.
So hope that helps you out Denny.
Thanks.
I'll hop back in the queue.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So the progress on the margin from the Moody’s Analytics has been pretty impressive thus far this year.
So basically and something you talk a little bit about the key drivers I know the revenue performance has been good and also just confidence in timing and getting to that mid-20% margin target you’ve laid out [ph].
Mark do you want to address that? Sure.
Peter it's just that we are in taking good progress.
As we've noted repeatedly I think this is a work in progress.
It's going to occur gradually over time but we've had very good performance on the top line this year which has certainly helped the margin and has illuminated the good work that we're doing on the expense side.
So I think you are seeing that in the margin expansions so far.
But we will see choppiness in this over time depending upon how the top line performs which as you know is variable from quarter-to-quarter.
But we are very pleased with where we are and the progress we're making but this is going to continue to play out over a number of years.
Peter it's Linda.
Mark and I are working together pretty closely.
We are starting to see the first inklings the first positive contributions that the Copal Amba team is able to support some of Mark's efforts in a more cost-effective way given that those resources are lower cost.
So our goal here is for all of us to work together to help Mark with the margins and the ERS business and we are just getting going on this efforts.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks.
And I was wondering if the mix shift is a significant driver of the margin performance we are seeing this year? Yes.
And it will continue to be a driver of that.
Again we talked about that at Investor Day.
It's a very deliberate part of the strategy for us to focus in ERS on emphasizing sales of our higher margin products and our higher margin services and deemphasizing some of the lower margin more commodity-type services that we've been involved in pretty heavily in the recent past.
But again that's something that that's not going to happen in a big bang type of fashion.
It is going to play out progressively over time.
Is it mainly ERS that's driving the margin upside this year? Yes.
Okay.
And then one last small item.
I know China is not a big market for you guys Ray on the rating side but can you just talk about what you're seeing there? Yes.
We are involved in China through our joint-venture in the domestic market and then Moody's is also active with the larger issuers that are under the cross-border markets and get Moody's global ratings.
And Moody’s Analytics is also very much involved in that market.
That being said yes there is certainly been some market volatility in China.
It's been primarily focused on the equity markets.
We continue to see growth in our joint- venture and in our cross-border business.
So that has not - neither one of those legs of our China strategy had been harmed or had a decline in business as a result of the volatility.
What we would be more concerned about is it’s some of the areas where there have been concerns about bubbles such as perhaps property sector or municipal debt in China.
If those areas become under more acute stress and that I think would be a more direct - have a more direct impact on our fixed income business over there.
Thank you Ray.
We will now go to Craig Huber with Huber Research.
Yes.
Hi.
Thank you.
Ray could you just comment if you would on the debt issuance trends that you're seeing in the non-U.S.
non-European geographies around the world? Just any general statements you could make there particularly on the Corporate Finance side? Yes.
In the third quarter we had good growth double-digit growth in Asia Corporate Finance but that was in part supported by our acquisition last year taking majority control of ICRA.
So that was a contributor.
Because we will have ICRA in the year-on-year numbers in the fourth quarter I wouldn't expect to see the same kind of growth coming out of Asia.
The Americas were soft in the third quarter and don’t expect a robust recovery in the Americas in the near-term.
So overall the international story and the non-Europe international story on the Corporate Finance side is that we are dealing with some headwinds.
We are getting the benefit of ICRA but we are dealing with some headwinds.
Okay.
And then also Ray I want to ask you or Linda just generally when you look at the balance sheet in general out there of corporations in the U.S.
and Europe and the debt loads that companies are carrying out relative to profits or interest expense or just GDP in general is there anything that you’re increasingly worried about the debt loads of the various corporations about high yield investment grades just generally out there? We have not seen - broadly speaking I don't think we've seen a big increase in leverage but we are paying attention obviously to corporate profitability and we will have to continue to do so.
As far as the impact on our analytics I'll see if Michel has any additional color he would like to add to that.
Yes thanks Ray.
I think as we - I think we discussed at Investor Day we expect some moderate increase in default rates in a year from now.
Still have levels that are historically low but overall when we look at the various metrics we follow and we publish and the number of those.
We still view fairly benign clear environment basically in relatively terms.
And that's true not in the U.S.
but also outside of U.S.
There are obviously sectors that are under a lot more - under stress obviously energy and oil and gas are sectors where we see a much higher level of credit tensions but more broadly speaking I think we continue to see a more benign clear environment.
Lastly Linda just a housekeeping question.
If you could just break down the revenues within your four areas in ratings your high yield investment grade et cetera? Sure Craig.
So we’ll look at MIS.
We'll look at Corporate Finance first.
So for the third quarter of 2015 total global Corporate Finance revenue was $248 million and what we have is investment grade about $63 million of that 25% which is up significantly from last year's third quarter of 15%.
High yield was up $33 million or 13% of total corporate revenues which is down from last year’s 21%.
Bank loans about $48 million 19% of total Corporate Finance revenues and down from last year's 24%.
And others about $105 million which is 43% of this year's quarter issuance and that's up from last year's 40%.
So the total number is $248 million which is down 5% from last year's $260 million.
Moving onto Structured.
Total Structured revenue of $112.5 million up from last year's $102 million by 10% again echoing what Ray said we are pretty pleased and surprised with the progress of Structured Finance our second largest business.
And so asset-backed securities $20.5 million that's 18% of total structured revenues down a bit from last year's 23%.
Residential mortgage-backed securities at $18.5 million almost completely flat to last year and 17%.
Commercial real estate finance $37.2 million up very nicely from last year's $26.9 with 38% increase and it's 33% of the structured revenues.
So again the commercial real estate line is helping itself quite a bit.
Structured credit is at $36 million up from about $34 million last year and it’s 32% of the total structured line and we have a very small de minimis others in there.
So Structured story is really about the strength in commercial real estate.
Moving onto FIG.
FIG is usually our most consistent business line.
It remains though about $90 million for this quarter.
Last year was about $92 million in the quarter.
Banking at about $58 million 65% of which the FIG revenues about flat to last year.
Insurance at about $26 million 29% of FIG revenues about to flat to last year.
Managed investments about $3 million which is 4% of last year as the quarter total and flat to last year and others about $2 million and 2%.
And lastly Craig PPIF.
Total of $90.6 million for this quarter up from $88.5 million last year’s at 2% increase overall.
The PFG and sovereign line at $46 million is 51% of PPIF revenues and that's 5% increase from last year 51% of total revenues Project and Infrastructure $44.5 million which is just about flat to last year and 49% of total PPIF and other is de minimis to come to as I said almost $91 million.
And we talked about MIS Other which includes the consolidation of ICRA but I think that's the main story there Craig.
Great.
Thank you.
We would now go to Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon everyone.
Hi Bill.
So a question for you on cash flow.
You mentioned year-to-date up 27% and attributed to changes in working capital.
The cash flow margin the trailing free cash flow to revenue has been very strong at 31% top of the group that we cover.
And I wanted to ask if there was anything that would keep that metrics from continuing to grow over time and maybe give us a little thought in terms of what's been making it particularly strong? Sure Bill.
It's pretty hard one for us to predict.
I would tell you that we have invested in our collections area to keep our receivables very strong and to keep them current.
And so we have been very careful to make sure that we work hard on our collections.
So that would be one focus area.
Generally cash flow should probably grow in line with earnings and that would just be the best indicator that we can give you.
We watch our cash flow very careful.
I think you can see from the results we’ve put up this morning.
We work on every line up and down the P&amp;L and we look part at changes in our cash flow but this is a little bit tricky for us to predict.
So as a rule of thumb just look at it growing in line with earnings.
I think that's probably the best measure that we can give you.
Excellent.
All right.
Well thank you very much.
Sure.
We will now go out to Tim McHugh with William Blair.
HI.
This is actually Sandler [ph] calling in for Tim.
Just to build on some of the commentary earlier about disintermediation in Europe with lot of the larger big banks kind of cleaning up their balance sheets and exiting some businesses.
Is that something that you’re expecting an uplift from next year or is that just kind of longer term trend you're kind of aware of? I think it's really a long-term trend a secular trend.
We do see some cyclicality in terms of the pace of new rating mandates or overall rating relationships that we have.
But the disintermediation story has really been a very very long-term story and I think will continue to be.
Looking at the financial assets in Europe in particular that are in the banking system versus in the capital markets there is a lot of runway there.
If it’s even going to get near to the allocation of financial asset that we see in the U.S.
and it may never get that far but that there are trillions of euros in play that are available to go into the fixed income markets and out of the loan markets.
So I would just say it's a long-term story and it will continue to support our business.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's all I had.
We'll now go to Doug Arthur with Huber Research.
Yes thanks.
Two questions.
One number of question and then a big picture question.
Linda what explains in this particular quarter the divergence between operating expense being flat? I know currency was a factor there and SG&amp;A being up 7% and obviously as you go into the fourth quarter incentive comp will play into that but is this trend in SG&amp;A likely to continue? That's the first question.
Sure.
I think we are keeping a careful eye on operating expenses Doug.
There is nothing more to it than that.
On the sales side we are investing on that front.
Mark and Michelle may have more to add but as we talked about in our commercial group we’ve been investing there.
And the kind of top like we are able to put up at 2%.
It’s a little bit slower than we would like but again with the S&amp;P 500 average at four-tenth of 1% we are running 5x better than other companies and that requires that we continue to look at what's happening on the sales front.
Mark has a very nice set of fast growing businesses and that requires that we keep the sales focus going.
I guess lastly what I would say before I ask if the others would like to comment the FX sort of help on the expense line doesn't help quite as much on SG&amp;A as it does on operating expense that’s just a peculiarity of the way the expenses way out.
I hope that helps you a little bit.
And I’d ask Mark or Mitchell if they have anything else to add.
Ray? I think that’s it.
I think that’s about it Doug.
Okay.
And then - it’s very helpful.
And then we’ve kind of attacked this question from a lot of different ways today.
But if you step back and look at year-to-date in the ratings business Europe 14% year-to-date and the U.S.
which I think choppiness in the third quarter notwithstanding is still a very good year you’re down 7% overseas some of that's currency.
But Ray it sounds to me like you don't really expect that to change unless the economies particularly in Europe start to grow again strongly.
Is that fair? Yes.
At the end of the day the provision of liquidity and quantitative easing may be helpful but we are really looking for economic growth to drive increased fixed-income activity.
There are things that could help catalyze that.
The European Central Bank and other central banks around the world had been engaged in to try and encourage growth.
But especially at this point in the cycle I would rather see - frankly I would rather see some increase in interest rates as a result of greater confidence in the global economy.
And that is - it looks to be a more likely scenario for the U.S.
than it does for some non-U.S.
economies going into 2016.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We will now go to Vincent Hung with Autonomous.
Hi.
How much were the merit comp increases you put through? Well merit comp increases are sort of 3-ish percent Vincent maybe a little bit less than that.
Okay.
And just last one.
When it comes to the M&amp;A-led issuance how many of those deals did you get extra fees for accelerating the rating if the issuer just wants to get the deal done quickly so they can close? Vincent we don't break that out.
Sufficed to say that if an issuer is in a great great hurry we can potential charge little bit more for that but that's not in percentage that we want to comment on mostly because it moves up and down so dramatically.
But it’s not prominent.
Not particularly.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
And we'll take our last question from Patrick O'Shaughnessy with Raymond James.
Hi Patrick.
Mr.
O'Shaughnessy please check your mute function.
We’re not able to hear you.
My apologies.
So my first question was with ESMA report that they put out in earlier October talking about concerns about the competitive environment in Europe.
What do you make of that and how are your conversations with ESMA going/ I think our relationships with ESMA is very professional and constructive.
They are our regulator and they are in doing inspections making enquiries and we have to respond to those and we do.
They also are required to produce certain reports and analysis pursuant to the regulations in Europe and the reports that they have produced this fall along those lines.
And they've been asked to comment on among other things competition.
I think it's fair to say that they would encourage competition but that they also believe that they have the tools necessary to appropriately regulate the market in Europe and are not at this point encouraging additional legislation pursuant to the report that they've prepared.
Yes.
I appreciate that.
And then last one real quickly for me.
Your full-year guidance for Enterprise Risk Solutions implies flattish I think slightly up quarter-over-quarter revenues in the fourth quarter.
I know that typically the fourth quarter is very seasonally strong for that business and last year probably a little bit more so because there was pull forward.
Are you expecting a little bit less seasonality in the Enterprise Risk Solutions in the fourth quarter of this year? No.
Doug we think the fourth quarter is going to be a strong quarter.
It’s just that last year the fourth quarter was an extraordinary quarter.
And so the comparable is very tough but in absolute dollars the fourth quarter is going to be a big quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
So it's Linda just a couple of housekeeping items to make sure we've got everybody working through their models on the same page.
So we've talked about where we see the year going a view might be sort of flattish fourth quarter to last year which means we have to work on our expenses.
We often talk about our expense ramps and we often benchmark this to our second quarter actual expenses which was about $500 million.
At this moment we are expecting an expense ramp of maybe $20 million to $25 million in the fourth quarter over the second quarter.
That's a little bit lighter than what we did last year.
It's just very important that everyone knows that if things break favorably and we start seeing issuance really pickup we could have to put up some more money for incentive compensation.
Moving against us is as Ray said we're working with the pound we budget at $1.52 and the euro a $1.12 unfortunately the euro is now at $1.10 and that makes our lives more difficult.
So we'll see where the euro goes but it has moved down a bit with more recent comments on quantitative easing.
So given these softer conditions we are working very hard on our expense line.
We continue to repurchase our shares as we said and we are waiting what will happen with conditions here in the fourth quarter but this week we have seen things improving a bit.
So that's I think about everything we have to say.
I’ll look to see if Ray or any others have anything else that we need to wrap this up.
Just want to confirm that there are no more questions.
Is that correct? There are no other questions at this time.
Okay.
I want to thank everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again in the New Year.
Thank you.
This concludes Moody’s third quarter earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 3:30 PM Eastern Time on Moody’s website.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome ladies and gentlemen to the Moody’s Corporation Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year-End 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time I would like to inform you that this conference is being recorded and that all participants are in a listen-only mode.
At the request of the company we will open the conference up for question and answers following the presentation.
I will now turn the conference over to Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on this teleconference to discuss Moody’s fourth quarter and full-year results for 2015 as well as our outlook for full-year 2016.
I am Salli Schwartz Global Head of Investor Relations.
This morning Moody’s released its results for the fourth quarter and full-year 2015 as well as our outlook for full-year 2016.
The earnings press release and a presentation to accompany this teleconference are both available on our website at ir.moodys.com.
Ray McDaniel Moody’s President and Chief Executive Officer will lead this morning’s conference call.
Also making prepared remarks on the call this morning is Linda Huber Moody’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I call your attention to the Safe Harbor language which can be found toward the end of our earnings release.
Today’s remarks may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In accordance with the act I also direct your attention to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section and the Risk Factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and in other SEC filings made by the company which are available on our website and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s websites.
These together with the Safe Harbor statement set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any such forward-looking statements.
I would also like to point out that members of the media may be on the call this morning in a listen-only mode.
I’ll now turn the call over to Ray McDaniel.
Thanks Salli.
Good morning and thank you to everyone for joining today’s call.
I’ll begin by summarizing Moody’s fourth quarter and full-year 2015 results.
Linda will follow with additional financial detail and operating highlights.
I will then conclude with comments on our outlook for 2016.
After our prepared remarks we’ll be happy to respond to your questions.
In the fourth quarter Moody’s delivered revenue of $866 million a decline of 1% from the fourth quarter of 2014 but an increase of 2% on the constant currency basis.
Operating expense for the fourth quarter was $533 million flat to the fourth quarter of 2014.
Operating income was $333 million down 3% from the prior year period.
Adjusted operating income defined as operating income less depreciation and amortization was $362 million also down 3% from the same period last year.
Operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2015 was 38.5% and the adjusted operating margin was 41.8%.
Diluted earnings per share of $1.09 was down 3% from the prior year period.
For full-year 2015 Moody’s achieved revenue and EPS growth for the sixth consecutive year despite difficult market conditions.
Moody’s revenue was $3.5 billion an increase of 5% from the prior year or 9% on a constant currency basis.
Revenue of Moody’s Investors Service was $2.3 billion an increase of 3% from 2014 or 8% on a constant currency basis.
Revenue of Moody’s analytics was $1.2 billion 8% higher than the prior year period or 12% on a constant currency basis.
Operating expense for full-year 2015 was $2 billion up 6% from 2014.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted operating expense by 4%.
Operating income of $1.5 billion increased 2% from 2014.
Adjusted operating income of $1.6 billion increased 3% from the prior year period.
Operating margin for full-year 2015 was 42.3% and the adjusted operating margin was 45.5%.
On a constant currency basis and excluding our 2014 and 2015 acquisitions operating margin and adjusted operating margin would have increased approximately 40 and 50 basis points respectively year over year.
Full-year 2015 earnings per share of $4.63 increased from $4.61 in 2014.
Non-GAAP EPS of $4.60 was up 9% from $4.21 in 2014.
In both years non-GAAP EPS excluded a $0.03 benefit from legacy tax matters.
Full-year 2014 non-GAAP EPS also excluded a $0.37 gain resulting from Moody’s acquisition of a controlling interest is ICRA Limited in the second quarter of 2014.
I’ll now turn the call over to Linda to provide further commentary on our financial results and other updates.
Thanks Ray.
I’ll begin with revenue at the company level.
As Ray mentioned Moody’s total revenue for the fourth quarter decreased 1% to $866 million but was up 2% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
revenue of $481 million was up 1% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $385 million was down 4% but up 4% on a constant currency basis.
Revenue generated outside the U.S.
represented 44% of Moody’s total revenue.
Recurring revenue of $446 million represented 51% of total revenue.
Looking now at each of our businesses starting with Moody’s Investors Service total MIS revenue for the quarter was $545 million down 4% from the prior year period but flat on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
revenue decreased 2% to $338 million.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $206 million declined 7% but was up 2% on a constant currency basis.
Revenue generated outside the U.S.
represented 38% of total ratings revenue.
Moving now to the lines of business for MIS; first global corporate finance revenue in the fourth quarter was $246 million down 7% from the prior year period or 4% on a constant currency basis.
This result reflected lower levels of non-U.S.
investment grade and global speculative grade bond issuance partially offset by improved levels of U.S.
and European bank loan issuance.
U.S.
corporate finance revenue increased 1% while non-U.S.
revenue decreased 20%.
Second global structured finance revenue for the fourth quarter was $114 million down 4% from the prior year period but flat on a constant currency basis.
Increased activity across most areas of structured finance partially offset lower CLO issuance.
U.S.
structured finance revenue was down 3% and non-U.S.
revenue was down 5%.
Third global financial institutions revenue of $92 million was up 8% from the prior year period or 13% on a constant currency basis.
This revenue was driven primarily by the U.S.
insurance and European banking sectors.
U.S.
financial institutions revenue was up 7% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 8%.
Fourth global public project and infrastructure finance revenue of $85 million was down 5% versus the prior year period or 2% on a constant currency basis primarily as a result of decreased U.S.
public finance activity.
U.S.
public project and infrastructure finance revenue was down 10% while non-U.S.
revenue was up 4%.
MIS Other which consists of non-rating revenue from Moody’s majority-owned joint ventures ICRA and Korea Investors Service or KIS contributed $7 million to MIS revenue for the fourth quarter compared to $8 million in the prior year period.
And turning now to Moody’s Analytics global revenue for MA of $321 million was up 3% from the fourth quarter of 2014 or 6% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
revenue of $143 million was up 6% year-over-year.
Non-U.S.
revenue of $178 million was up 1% or 6% on a constant currency basis.
Revenue generated outside the U.S.
represented 56% of total MA revenue.
And moving now to the lines of business for MA; first global Research Data &amp; Analytics or RD&amp;A revenue of $161 million was up 8% from the prior year period or 11% on a constant currency basis and represented 50% of total MA revenue.
Growth was mainly due to strong new sales and product upgrades coupled with record customer retention.
U.S.
revenue was up 10% and non-U.S.
revenue was up 5% or 11% on a constant currency basis.
Second Enterprise Risk Solutions or ERS generated record revenue of $122 million and was up 1% from last year or 4% on a constant currency basis.
Growth was driven by strength in the credit assessment and originations and stress testing businesses.
U.S.
and non-U.S.
ERS revenue were each up 1%.
Trailing 12-months revenue and sales for ERS increased 14% and 11% respectively.
As we’ve noted in the past due to the variable nature of product timing - excuse me project timing and completion ERS revenue remains subject to quarterly volatility.
Third global professional services revenue of $38 million was down 10% from the prior year period or 6% on a constant currency basis.
This result was primarily due to lower net new business at Copal Amba as well as the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange on the credentials and licensing business.
U.S.
professional services revenue was down 7% while non-U.S.
revenue was down 11%.
And turning now to expenses Moody’s fourth quarter expense was $533 million flat to the prior year period.
An increase in compensation expense for merit increases and hiring was entirely offset by reduced incentive compensation.
Foreign currency translation favorably impacted expense by 3%.
Operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2015 of 38.5% was down from 39.3% in 2014.
Adjusted operating margin of 41.8% was down from 42.4%.
On a constant currency basis and excluding our 2014 and 2015 acquisitions operating margin for the quarter would have been flat year over year and adjusted operating margin would have increased approximately 20 basis points.
Moody’s effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 29.4% compared with 28.1% for the prior year period.
This increase was primarily due to a reduced percentage of income from lower tax rate jurisdictions primarily offset by the favorable resolution of tax audits.
And now I’ll provide an update on capital allocation.
On December 15 2015 Moody’s increased its quarterly dividend by 9% from $0.34 to $0.37 per share of common stock.
Over the course of 2015 Moody’s returned $272 million to its shareholders by dividend payments.
With regard to share repurchase during the fourth quarter of 2015 Moody’s repurchased 2 million shares at a total cost of $193 million or an average cost of $100.09 per share and issued 261 000 shares as part of its employee stock-based compensation plan.
Full-year 2015 Moody’s repurchased 10.9 million shares for $1.1 billion or $101.14 per share and issued 3.2 million shares under employee stock-based compensation plan.
Outstanding shares as of December 31 2015 totaled 196.1 million shares down 4% from December 31 2014.
In December 2015 the Board of Directors authorized $1 billion share repurchase program to commence following the completion of the existing program.
Including this incremental program as of December 31 2015 Moody’s had $1.5 billion of share repurchase authority remaining.
And turning now to Moody’s leverage in November 2015 Moody’s issued $300 million of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2044.
At the end of 2015 Moody’s had $3.4 billion of outstanding debt and $1 billion of additional debt capacity available under its revolving credit facility.
Total cash cash equivalents and short-term investments at quarter-end were $2.2 billion up $555 million from December 31 2014.
As of December 31 2015 approximately 68% of Moody’s cash and cash equivalents were maintained outside the U.S.
Free cash flow for the full-year of 2015 was $1.1 billion up 13% from full-year 2014 primarily due to changes in working capital.
And with that I’ll turn the call back over to Ray.
Thanks Linda.
I’ll conclude this morning’s prepared comments by discussing our full-year guidance for 2016.
Moody’s outlook for 2016 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors including interest rates foreign currency exchange rates corporate profitability and business investment spending mergers and acquisitions consumer borrowing and securitization and the amount of debt issued.
These assumptions are subject to some degree of uncertainty and results for the year could differ materially from our current outlook.
Moody’s guidance assumes foreign currency translation for the British pound of a $1.42 to the pound and for the euro of $1.09 to the euro.
For all other currencies Moody’s assumes end of 2015 exchange rates.
Although we expect continued market volatility we’re projecting mid-single digit percent revenue growth in 2016 as well as EPS of $4.75 to $4.85.
Operating expenses expected to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Moody’s projects an operating margin of approximately 42% and an adjusted operating margin of approximately 45%.
The effective tax rate is expected to be 32% to 32.5%.
2016 free cash flow is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion.
Moody’s expect share repurchases to be approximately $1 billion subject to available cash market conditions and other ongoing capital allocation decisions.
Capital expenditures are projected to be $125 million to $135 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be approximately $130 million.
For MIS we expect 2016 revenue to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Both U.S.
and non-U.S.
MIS revenue are also expected to increase in mid-single-digit percent range.
Corporate finance revenue is expected to be flat.
Structured finance revenue and public project and infrastructure finance revenue are each expected to grow in the high-single-digit percent range.
Financial institutions revenue is expected to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
For MA 2016 revenue is expected to increase in the mid-single-digit percent range.
U.S.
revenue is expected to grow in the high-single-digit percent range and non-U.S.
revenue is expected to be flat.
Research data and analytics revenue is projected to grow in the mid-single-digit percent range.
Enterprise risk solutions revenue is expected to grow in the low-single-digit percent range following earlier than anticipated recognition of revenue in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Professional services revenue is expected to decline in the low-single-digit percent range.
This concludes our prepared remarks and joining us for the question-and-answer session is Michel Madelain President and Chief Operating Officer of Moody’s Investors Service; and Mark Almeida President of Moody’s Analytics.
We’d be pleased to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Manav Patnaik from Barclays.
Yes good afternoon.
My first question which I’m sure you’re anticipating is just around the issuance assumptions particularly on the ratings business.
Could you just help give us a little bit more color on your underlying assumptions in terms of the global issuance volume forecast and maybe some of the moving pieces within those categories? And it sounds like other than corporate finance everything else is up nicely which is sort of contrary to I think what a lot of us were expecting.
So just hoping you could shed some color on those pieces there.
Sure let me let Linda start this off and if I have anything to add I will.
Sure Manav Salli is going to put up a new slide which looks at the summation of views we’ve gotten from a number of investment banks.
And we received this on the afternoon of February 3.
This is solely U.S.
issuance information though.
And it is for both financial and nonfinancial bonds and leverage loans.
I’ll go through each of the categories that hopefully you could see up on the screen.
Finally I’ll conclude by making some quick comments on the European outlook.
So firstly investment grade for January we saw about $125 billion of issuance.
And it was the fourth highest volume month ever.
However $46 million of that issuance came from one deal the Amba’s [ph] deal.
We are encouraged by approximately $200 billion in the visible M&amp;A pipeline but volatility is impacting the pace of that issuance.
So the pipeline is healthy but we do seem to have some backup in the issuance pipeline.
All-in funding costs are generally quite attractive.
And lastly the last point there and it’s just in M&amp;A shareholder-friendly activities continue to be cited as a use of proceeds.
So for the year we see about $1.2 trillion in investment grade issuance in the U.S.
which is about flat year over year.
And that’s a reasonable outlook that we can work with.
Moving on to the speculative grade categories high-yield bonds January about $7 billion of issuance.
The leverage market was soft in December.
That tone has continued into January and that makes us cautious.
$35 billion is in the forward pipeline and again we see two classes of issuers those with higher quality speculative grade names have access and those with lower ratings don’t; continuing headwinds coming from the commodities’ volatility issues and default rate concerns.
And last week we saw inflows back into high-yield funds which we hadn’t seen since the start of the year which may indicate that perhaps we’re establishing some stability which would be helpful.
Though for the year estimates range pretty widely on high-yield bonds.
About $240 billion is the sort of mean number that we’re seeing.
That’s down 15% year over year.
Last year I think we did about $275 billion.
And this number has come down as we’ve moved to this point in time.
Leverage loans we saw a $20 billion of issuance left in January and expecting $260 billion which is down 10% for the year; so we’ve seen low volumes in the high-yield bond markets and loans are about on pace with 2015.
Leverage loan activity was consistent week-to-week in January.
And banks expect this to continue.
Again we can see $45 billion in the forward pipeline but the timing of that is very much open to discussion and of taken default could cause the loan space to be impacted negatively but less so than the high yield bond market; so investment grade in summary in the U.S.
about flat this year high yield bonds down 15% and leverage loans down about 10%.
Now in Europe just in terms of what we’re seeing there generally we see broader views as to what could happen this year in terms of issuance but generally for Europe from the banks we’re seeing investment grade up about 10% high yield bonds down about 10% and leverage loans up about 5%.
In terms of what we are seeing the ten-year is quite tame at this point about 184 185 and spreads on U.S.
investment grade bonds about 216 bps and in high yield about 765 bps.
So spreads have widened but the ten-years come in so we think all-in financing costs are relatively attractive.
In Europe the spread numbers are about 154 basis points for investment grade and for high yield about 538 basis points.
So with that I’ll turn it over to Ray.
And potentially Michel may have some other color as well.
The only thing I would add is with respect to new rating mandates.
We did have a healthy pace of new mandates throughout the year in 2015 coming in at about 770 new mandates.
And that has continued to be a healthy pipeline early this year.
So there’s obviously going to be decisions by potential new issuers about when and if they want to get in the market and I agree with Linda’s comments on stability will encourage them in.
But we take that as a good sign in terms of the pipeline of new activity of fresh names.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks for that.
And so just one follow-up in terms of just clarifying your mid-single-digit guidance for the total company and then for the divisions as well what is the exact FX impact you are assuming in both those for the total? And I presume MA has a bigger hit to the numbers? The overall impact of FX would be about 1% unfavorable on revenue and about 2% favorable on expense.
I don’t have the breakdown by the individual business units but that’s for the overall corporation.
Okay.
Manav just to sort of put a stake in it for you we’ve looked at - we budgeted as we said at $1.09 on the euro the euro has in fact moved up a bit from there; and $1.42 on the pound.
The net impact is if the euro moves down from $1.09 by about $0.01 that hits us about $0.01 in EPS.
But as we said since we finished putting this together and in fact the euro has appreciated versus the dollar.
And I don’t know if anyone else has any more specific comments.
And that’s… Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
I’ll jump back in the queue.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Andre.
My first question is the one area you didn’t talk about in the detailed rundown is the structured finance pocket.
So I’m just wondering what you’re seeing that makes you assume that accelerates the high-single-digit from mid-single-digit guidance last year and report it? And then how much of that is being driven by a U.S.
versus a Europe view? Sure.
We are really looking at strength in multiple areas of structured finance in 2016 within offset coming from the CLO sector which we think is going to be softer.
And really I think the most important driver in structured side is the refinancing that has to occur for commercial real estate.
So we expect to have a strong year for CMBS in particular but also we expect to continue to see growth in the asset-backed and residential mortgage-backed security sectors.
That is - and that improvement we anticipate in really all geographies probably stronger in the U.S.
except for the CLO area than in Europe but we do expect to see growth around the world.
And then you guys have always done a very good job of controlling cost and delivering on the margin.
I guess no one has the perfect crystal ball on the issuance for the year.
If the view in issuance changes to the upside or god forbid to the downside how should we think about how much room left you have there to continue to manage cost since you have already run the ship so tight so far? Sure Andre.
Couple of comments.
I would note that in the fourth quarter expenses were flat.
And with incentive comp we offset any other increase in compensation.
So we’re pretty aggressive about managing expenses as you had noted.
Just a couple of comments.
If in fact the top line does pick up we get pretty good operating leverage on those increases from the top-line.
The only incremental piece that we really need to pay would be incentive compensation.
So we look at maybe $0.60 $0.70 on the dollar of revenue so that is very helpful.
As you pointed out the top line is the tricky part for this year.
And we’re looking at margin being about flat.
We finished last year at 42.3% and we’re saying that will be about flat this year.
To be perfectly honest it’s a little tough for us to have the margin come in exactly at where we expect it to.
But we are reinvesting in our business and we think flat margin is fine.
From an FX adjusted basis we’re planning for expenses to increase by about $100 million in 2016 and those are about evenly split between three different things.
The first is the roll-forward of the hiring we did at 2015.
Second would be the hiring we’re doing in 2016.
And the third would really be around technology and real estate changes that we’re making.
On the technology piece we are investing in our systems.
Cyber security is a piece of that which I think every financial corporation is looking at right now.
And then we do have a bit heavier than usual real estate piece.
I think you’ve probably seen we’ve taken two floors over at One World Trade Center at very attractive rates.
And the 52nd floor here in this building at 7 World Trade also at very attractive rates.
But we do need to get those new floors online here and there will be some expenses associated with that.
So nothing very exciting but to drive the top line which we think is pretty healthy given what other companies are putting up.
To drive mid-single-digits we do need to spend some money.
And our plans are modest but we are thinking revenue will be about flat.
I don’t know if Ray or the division heads had anything more to say on that.
No the only reminder I would make is that our reaction to cyclical changes is going to be less material than anything we see happening that’s more structural in nature.
And so if we do see structural changes in our markets we are going to react more aggressively on the expense side.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we’ll take our next question from Alex Kramm with UBS.
Hey good morning.
Hi Alex.
Hey coming back to the guidance for a second.
Can you talk about the recurring fees on the rating agency a little bit? First of all what are you expecting there? But more importantly when you talk about monitoring fees in particular I think that’s the biggest piece how should we be thinking about that from a cyclically challenged perspective if there is one? I guess what I’m trying to say is if there are defaults in the high yield market that are picking up if issuance slows at one point do monitoring fees start to kind of like roll-off and how should we be thinking about that? Alex let - maybe Ray and I can take a start at that and then we’ll ask Michel to think about it.
The monitoring fees are the most constant part of our business.
And the average life of debt right now is about seven years.
So they moved very slowly.
But we do have price increases on those fees year over year on new mandates that we bring on.
And we would expect that that line would move to the upside and would move gradually.
I’m not sure that defaults would have much of an impact on that.
They’re really two different things.
But I’ll ask Ray for his comments.
Yes.
It would not be material.
We have I think as Linda mentioned we have a trailing 12 months default rate for high yield at little over 3% and we’re expecting that to increase by year end 2016 to about 4.5%.
That 1.2% 1.3% difference in default rates is not going to be material to the overall monitoring fees we get in which obviously include not only the high yield sector but the investment grade sector and non-corporate monitoring fees as well.
Okay great.
And then secondly this is small part of your business but was a little surprised in the professional services guidance.
I mean it seems like last year there was a - the tough comps from shutting down some businesses that having that down again this year.
Anything else going on there is just a very tough environment or why is not accelerating now that you can right size the business it seems? Sure Alex.
I’ll take a shot on that for Copal Amba and then I’ll turn it over to Mark on the training business.
So what’s behind this Copal Amba? We had attrition of one large customer account.
Now as you aware you’re quite aware Alex the global banks are having some challenges right now.
And some of them are responding to that by increasing headcount at Copal Amba but one large bank went the other way.
So we have to lap back.
We are working very hard on restructuring of sales functioning and broadening away from the global banks in terms of the customers that we serve.
And that’s going well.
We are encouraged by our early progress there.
But we did make very good strides integrating the business last year.
We’ve really ramped up our internal efforts of having Copal Amba to support both Moody’s Analytics and the rating agency.
So we are very encouraged by that.
But as I said we did have one large bank go the other way and we’ve got to work through that.
Maybe Mark wants to talk a little bit about training.
Sure Alex.
In the training business we had a very good year in 2015 on the sales side in training which is going to result in much better revenue out of that business in 2016.
So that’s the good news.
We still have a pretty sizable FX hit in the training business so which is going to hold down the reported growth rate.
But I think we’ve got some - we got much more strength on the training piece of professional services in 2016 than we saw in 2015.
Okay helpful.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Peter Appert with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks good morning.
So maybe for Mark the strength in the Enterprise Risk Solutions business is noteworthy.
I know you pointed out that some of it is timing but this is the second year in a row we’ve got this timing benefit.
So I’m wondering why you’re not a little more upbeat in terms of the revenue growth potential there.
I am not more upbeat about 2016 because we had two consecutive years of benefit from timing.
We had a big revenue recognition event in the fourth quarter.
We knew that was coming.
We just didn’t know when it was going to come and it happened to come through in the late part of 2015 rather than in early 2016.
So that was good news for 2015 but of course it impacts the 2016 outlook.
The other thing we have going on Peter is that we continue to take some FX hits as we roll into 2016 as well.
So we are a bit modest in our expectations for ERS in 2016.
I’d just remind you that over the last - well we had 1% growth in the fourth quarter in 2015 but that was off of a very strong 42% growth in the fourth quarter of 2014 so that was pretty good.
If you look at the prior seven quarters four of those quarters we came in at 24% or better and the other three were 12% 13% and 14%.
So we’ve had a pretty long run now a very strong growth in the ERS business.
And we’re just going to settle out a little bit in 2016 as we kind of get the - as the timing normalizes if you will.
What does that suggest then Mark in terms of the sustainable growth rate in that business? We continue to feel very good about the sustainability of the business.
Again if you look at on the sales side sales growth was very healthy in 2015 despite our having taken about two points of FX hit.
The other thing I would just remind you of and we’ve spoken about this before but we told you we are deemphasizing the Implementation Services business.
That’s the relatively low margin piece of the ERS business which has been driving a lot top-line growth for us but hasn’t been doing much on the margin.
So as we back away from that we’re going to give up a couple of points of growth on the top line to set ourselves up for more profitable growth going forward.
And that’s a little bit - again if these plans work out the way we’ve organized them that’s going to be again a bit of a one-time hit to top line growth in 2016 but should set us up for good growth going forward and more profitable growth going forward.
So on that front Mark you’ve talked in the past about this mid-20% margin target.
The margin is up just a little bit in 2015.
So is the mid-20% target still relevant? Will we see progress towards that goal in 2016? And I’m asking this partly in the context of Linda’s earlier comment about sort of being comfortable with flattish margins.
Are you backing away at all from the expectation of margin upside in Analytics? Well as we’ve said we are - we view the margin expansion program for MA as something that is going to take place over several years.
We view it as a marathon rather than a sprint.
So we still have those plans in effect.
We have the variety of things that we’re doing that we believe will position us to run a more profitable business.
The other thing I would note however Peter just to keep in mind in the context of Linda’s comments is that as MA grows and grows faster than the rating agency as we saw in 2015 we do attract more corporate overhead.
So we’ve also - we’ve got that offset going on as well.
But nevertheless our plans for driving more profit out of the business are still intact.
We’re executing on those plans.
We feel good about what we’re doing.
Okay.
Thanks.
I’ll follow-up later.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Bill Bird with FBR.
Good morning.
Just as a follow-up Mark I was wondering if you could size the timing benefit to revenues in ERS on the deliverable that was referenced.
And secondly just wondering if you’re seeing any change in client behavior in terms of their willingness to buy given the context of world volatility.
Thank you.
As for the first piece it was about $20 million that we pulled from 2016 into 2015.
So it just gives you a sense of the scale of that thing.
With respect to your second question the short answer is no demand continues to be very healthy.
We really haven’t observed any meaningful change in customer behavior.
We haven’t observed sales cycles lengthening or anything like that.
The sales pipeline is very very healthy.
So honestly I can’t say that we’ve observed anything that would suggest that what we’re reading about in the newspapers is impacting demand for what we’re selling.
And just as a follow on can you give us a sense of just the size rough size of the implementation business that you are deemphasizing? I don’t think we’ve disclosed that in the past.
We’ve talked about - if you think about that as kind of the nonrecurring portion of the ERS business or at least a substantial piece of it you can look at it in those terms.
I think we’ve talked about that.
Yes and I would also just add that this is not - we’re not stepping away completely from Implementation Services.
Yes yes.
We will still do some of that because it supports the product sales.
Yes.
So it’s difficult for us to give you a precise number on that because we don’t know exactly what that interaction between implementation services and product sales will continue to be.
Yes that’s exactly right.
I mean to be clear we’re not taking Implementation Services to zero.
We’re just not - we’re planning to keep it flat in 2016.
But as Ray observed and he’s quite right we don’t have complete control over that.
A lot of that will be down to what the customers want and what we think is the right thing to do in order to drive growth in the licenses and subscription sides of business.
Great.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Tim McHugh with William Blair &amp; Company.
Yes thanks.
I want to ask emerging markets just in the past you guys have - it’s basically my math was it added almost a point to growth in the last couple of years just in general obviously choppier markets there.
Can you talk about what’s the outlook there? Have you seen a slowdown in new ability to add new mandates and grow in those markets? Michel do you want to comment on the emerging market.
Yes.
I think clearly these markets have been as you know are subject to a fair amount of stress.
And we’ve seen impact notably in Latin America post-Petrobras.
And in Asia actually we have - we continue to have a good pipeline of new mandates coming out of China notably.
Although the region clearly is subject to some of the economic pressures that you’re very familiar with.
Rise of emerging market that’s really - the Gulf States and Middle East and those are small businesses really.
Okay.
And as we think about price I know you target 3% to 4% over time.
But I guess in the context of the current macro.
Can you get I mean does still serve for us to think about three or four points of growth from price and the type of environment that we’re expecting for 2016? Yes.
We have built in pricing assumptions for 2016 that support our outlook so we are still able to factor in price.
As I’ve said in the past some of the price does relate to issuance volumes.
So if we change bond fees and bonds are not issued then changing the bond fee doesn’t really matter.
So what we’re going to - what the mix is in terms of issuance and how that aligns with where we feel we are adding particular value and think that we can adjust pricing.
So I would stick with our long term comment that we think we can get three to four points on average.
And we’ll see this year based on volume.
Okay thanks.
And we will take our next question from Craig Huber with Huber Research Partners.
Yes hi thank you.
Ray you talked about default rates for high yield.
I believe you said in the U.S.
3% going to 4.5% the year out.
What are those numbers please if you exclude the energy sector? If you exclude energy as of year-end 2015 the 12-month default rate was actually quite low.
It was about 1.6%.
So with - and we don’t have a - don’t publish a speculative grade forecast by industry.
But you can look at that 1.6% ex oil and gas and metals and mining as compared to the overall default rate of 3.2% as of December.
Okay.
And then also Ray just in general when you look at the corporate debt market out there both in the U.S.
and Europe are you seeing anything out there that makes you think there’s too much debt in the system out there whether the coverage ratio is relative to EBITDA what have you relative to GDP? I wouldn’t say we’ve seen anything that we characterize as a bubble.
There obviously are some parts of the market that have more leverage than others and obviously there is stress in the energy metals and mining sectors.
But looking at the market more broadly there’s nothing that I would say we’ve identified as being a particular red flag.
Okay.
And then also in your guidance for ratings up mid-single-digit revenue for the year would you characterize that as back half of the year weighted? And if so are you also expecting more than normal pull forward if any debt issuance from the refinancing wall in 2017 coming into the back half of 2016? I mean how do you sort of see this either playing out in terms of the cadence of the revenue growth or lack thereof as the year progresses to get to that mid-single-digit number for ratings? Thanks.
Yes.
I’ve thought for a while that the second-half of the year offers more potential probably than the first-half of the year and in part because we do have the refinancing build from 2017 through 2019 coming closer on the horizon.
And also just because we’ve been through a recent period of really strong volatility in the markets and I think markets looking for more stability in energy and seeing where spreads settle that’s going to encourage.
The stability itself will encourage issuance in addition to the refinancing walls that will be coming closer.
Okay.
But a last question Linda I typically ask you.
Can you break down the revenues by your four major categories within ratings high-yield versus bank loan versus investment grade in the fourth quarter? Sure Craig.
We can do that.
So we’re doing Q4 2015 and the first line of business is corporate finance.
So we’re going to look at four different areas: investment grade spec grade bank loans and other.
The total revenue for this category for the fourth quarter was $246 million.
So investment grade was $71 million about flat from the fourth quarter last year in terms of percentages little bit down on dollar basis.
Spec grade decreased to $26.5 million from last year’s $34.1 million in the fourth quarter.
Bank loan interestingly increased in the fourth quarter of 2015 to $44 million from last year’s $37 million.
And bank loans were 18% of this total corporate line.
Other was $104.4 million down from last year’s $112 million and represented 42% of splits.
And again corporates represented 45% of the MIS revenues for the fourth quarter of 2015.
Moving on to structured we’ll go through five different lines.
The total for structured is $114 million in 2015.
First to look at ABF and that was about $24 million up a little bit from last year’s $22 million.
Second is residential mortgage-backed securities $23 million up a bit from last year’s $20 million; commercial real estate $37.5 million up from last year’s about $36 million; and structured credit at about $30 million down from last year’s $40 million; and others are pretty negligible so again that all comes to $214 million.
If we move on to FIG total is about $92 million for the fourth quarter and we look at banking insurance managed investments and other.
So banking is about $61 million about flat from last year’s $60 million.
Insurance at about $24 million is up nicely from last year’s $19 million.
Managed investments at $4.4 million was flat to last year.
And other at two-and-change was also flat to last year.
And then lastly we go to PPIF total is $85 million here.
We’ve got three categories which include PFG and sovereign first which is about $46 million.
Last year we’re about $48 million on this line for the fourth quarter.
Project and infrastructure is the second category about $40 million here which is down from last year’s $42 million.
And then other is negligible really in both periods.
So I think that’s the total split of the big categories.
Craig does that get it done for you? Yes perfect.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we’ll take our next question from Doug Arthur with Huber Research.
Linda you mentioned that you dropped incentive comp or controlled that pretty aggressively in the fourth quarter.
Can you give us some idea of the numbers there? Thanks.
Sure.
So for fourth quarter of 2015 incentive compensation was 13% of our total comp expenses of $336 million for the quarter which was just about flat to what we did for last year but the components were quite different.
For this year we put up $44 million in the fourth quarter for incentive compensation.
Last year we put up $53 million.
So this was delta of almost $9 million.
The fourth quarter of 2015 didn’t come in as strong as we might have liked and therefore the incentive compensation accrual backed off by quite a bit.
Also what was interesting is last year we did have $7 million of profit sharing in the fourth quarter.
And for this fourth quarter we did not have any profit sharing.
And so that saved another $7 million so really $16 million there reduction in those two lines.
Now on salaries and benefits we did move up from $255 million last year to about $272 million this year.
So again that increase in salaries and benefits were - that was completely offset by what happened with the incentive compensation.
Stock-based comp was about flat at $20.5 million so not much going on differently there.
But I think what we want to demonstrate here Doug is we pulled the incentive comp lever pretty hard if things are a little bit weaker than we think.
And the first reduction there goes to unfortunately to the employees.
So that’s how we handled it.
I hope that’s helpful.
Yes.
No that’s great.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon everyone.
Hi Bill.
So I have a question for you on MIS.
If you look at total MIS growth rate on a two-year basis and by that I mean you just take the growth of a quarter and add it to the growth rate of a quarter year ago it had been moving at about mid-teens for the first three quarters of 2015 and then the fourth quarter just reported it dropped to about 4%.
And if we assume - and that 4% would line up with the guidance for MIS for 2016 - if we assume that that 4% two-year comp is kind of the target for 2016 and we go through by the quarters and keeping that 4% it would imply Q1 will be about - down about 10% Q2 up about 2% Q3 up about 4% and Q4 up about 7% to 8%.
And I just wanted to run that by you to see of that is how the methodology was okay or maybe you could suggest a better one in terms of looking at how to think about the progression of MIS throughout the year given the uncertainties of the market.
Bill it’s Ray.
I have to be honest; I didn’t quite keep up with all the math.
But maybe what I can do to be helpful is to remind listeners that our revenue typically follows a saw-tooth pattern with the second and fourth quarters being stronger first and third quarters being softer.
We did not see that pattern strongly in 2015 because of weakness in the fourth quarter.
And I would anticipate at this point in time that we would be back to more of the traditional saw-tooth going into 2016.
So second and fourth quarters - and I would also anticipate that as I mentioned a little while ago that we may see momentum picking up in the second-half of the year this year.
Yes.
Okay.
Ray a couple of housekeeping items then I wanted to just double check to see what the organic constant currency growth was for the company.
I know that we don’t have a lot coming in from acquisitions with Lewtan and Copal but I thought I’d ask for that.
I don’t have the organic constant currency.
I had quoted that overall growth was 9% for the corporation on a constant currency basis.
So we picked up about 4 4.5 points on a constant currency basis but I don’t have the organic/inorganic breakouts.
Mark do you have? Yes.
For MA well we were - as reported we were up 8% for the year organic constant currency would have been almost 10%.
Got it.
Thank you.
And the last question was - on the mandates you mentioned 770 in 2015 for the year.
I just wanted to double check what were the new mandates in 2014 2013 if we haven’t had those? I don’t have them in front of me but they were about a 1000 each year.
So we were down from those peak years and those were peak years those were record years for new mandates.
But the 770 compares quite favorably to years prior to 2013.
So we’re sort of in a middle range at this point between the peak and the historical run rate.
Got it.
All right well thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Warren Gardiner with Evercore Investments.
Hey good morning.
Thank you.
So I just - I know that M&amp;A can kind of drive these both kinds of services.
And we kind of saw that in 2015 with the nice benefit to revenue for ratings.
But I was just curious if we stay in kind of a choppier backdrop how you guys could potentially benefit if at all from structuring related services? Warren it’s Linda.
I think you had said M&amp;A activity.
I’m assuming you mean for the economy as a whole has been helpful to us in terms of bond issuance.
You wanted us to comment on that.
I’m not sure we were quite clear on the second part of your question there.
Oh I was just saying sort of additional services related to M&amp;A may have kind of helped you guys this year.
And I was wondering if [Technical Difficulty] that was somewhat true with respect to potentially restructuring if things were to get choppier.
Sure.
M&amp;A has been a wind at our back.
And as I noted earlier we got about $200 billion in the investment grade M&amp;A pipeline.
And we got about $35 billion in the high yield pipeline.
That’s kind of sitting there waiting to move.
We’ve seen this situation before.
We’re in a risk off part of the market.
We’ve had a lot of volatility.
But these pipelines will move eventually.
We’ll wait and see where things go with the Fed potentially in March.
But when we can see the pipelines there it does give us some view to be a bit more optimistic.
The timing is the tricky saying and that’s why at Moody’s we don’t give quarterly guidance because it’s very difficult to predict.
But we do expect that M&amp;A is continuing and that a lot of companies have bridge loans in place for financing and eventually they’re going to have to be taken out; so it’s a matter of when and I’ll let Ray say some more about that.
No I was just going to ask Michel Madelain if he wanted to comment on our rating assessment services and the materiality of that compared to the overall MIS business? Yes.
Ray Thank you.
Typically in M&amp;A transaction we sometimes provide some rating assessment of the - designed to provide some indication of the impact of the transaction on the rating we have outstanding.
Those are small and - the overall amount of fees and total fees the total services are really small in relation to the overall revenue line.
And they’re not really moving the dial basically from that perspective.
Yes.
Okay.
And Warren I’m not sure if that’s what you were getting at.
But if it was I hope that was satisfactory.
Yes.
That was helpful.
Thanks a lot.
That’s all I have now.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our next question from Joseph Foresi with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Hi.
So just wanted to come at issuance a different way to kind of close out the call; as far as swing-factors are concerned on the issuance question for what the outlook could be for 2016 what do you think the most important swing factor is? Is it the stability? I assume you’re expecting one or two interest rate hikes.
Is it M&amp;A? Is it the back-half of the year? I’m just wondering as an outsider what we should think about as being kind of the most important thing to look at.
I think it’s - first of all some stability so that companies feel that they have visibility in what their issuance would look like.
Obviously rates and spreads are relevant.
I don’t think that movement on the short-term rates is going to be particularly impactful.
It’s really looking more the long-term rates for the bond issuance.
And it also has to do with economic momentum in the economy and refinancing needs.
So if we have relatively wide spreads or volatility in the market and we don’t see a lot of economic momentum to encourage capital expenditure and business expansion and we don’t have refinancing needs then issuance is going to be more subdued.
But when that combination of factors starts to come into better alignment stability spreads narrowing and the need to refinance either for business expansion or they need to finance either for refinancing or business expansion that’s the virtuous cycle.
Got it.
Okay.
And let me just comment a little bit more on our various sectors here and Michel may be helpful to this discussion.
So we said for investment grade issuance looks to be about flat.
In high yield bonds for 2015 we did $183 million of revenue that’s about 5% of the corporation’s revenue again high yield in 2015 only 5% of the corporation’s revenue.
Bank loans a little over $200 million about 6% of the corporation’s revenue.
And in the fourth quarter of 2015 as I had said to Craig our spec-grade revenue was down to $26.5 million.
We thought very hard about high yield for 2016.
And we think that the Q4 run rate in 2015 we hope it’s low.
So we have reduced our high yield view.
We’ve been very thoughtful about the quite as bad as it was in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We are watching this very carefully.
It’s probably the trickiest line we have to work with here.
And I might invite Michel to say a little bit more about his thoughts on that because that really has been I think the biggest challenge for us in terms of how we’re thinking about 2016.
Michel you want to add some color.
Yes.
I mean what I’d say is that really when you think about investment grade I mean the factors that Ray mentioned and you discussed earlier which M&amp;A the economy are clearly the key drivers here.
I think when you go to our heel [ph] then the impact of market sentiment and the overall - the spreads and the risk-on risk-off sort of changes we see in are probably much more impactful.
And therefore much more difficult - it’s much more difficult to predict the volumes that we should expect.
And there the sort of idiosyncratic credit factors are playing a bigger role.
Got it.
And just building on it I’m going to take a crack at this question because I know it’s a difficult one.
Is there anything in particular you’d point out when you went through your guidance process this year versus other years that you did differently that might shed some light on how comfortable we can become with the issuance guidance for 2016? I guess the short answer is no.
We really didn’t do anything differently than we normally do.
It’s a combination of internal work and speaking with other market participants to get their consensus views and we build our forecast off of that.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Denny Galindo with Morgan Stanley.
Hi there.
Hi Denny.
Just I wanted to - just real quickly since we’ve been on here for a while.
But I wanted to talk a little bit about the high yield line item.
It does seem like it might be a swing factor this year.
Could that actually benefit if you have this big wall of investment-grade maturities in 2016 and 2017 and some of that’s downgraded into high yield? Is that something kind of - it’s almost like a fallen angel effect.
Is that something that could end up helping you in the high yield line item this year? Or maybe you could comment on that idea.
Well I guess it would help the high yield line item.
It wouldn’t help the investment grade line item.
But I think your - the serious part of an answer to your question would be that we really wouldn’t expect a material commercial difference based on investment grade names falling into the spec-grade range.
We have both frequent issuer pricing agreements and we have transaction based pricing.
And so it’s possible to see more frequent issuers dropping into the spec-grade range but I think that would be very much at the margin and would not impact our - the financial part of our business as opposed to the Analytics.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then lastly someone did ask about restructuring and it’s kind of the credit assessment part of the fees said that was kind of minimal as it relates to M&amp;A.
Are there any additional revenue streams you would benefit from if they had like a distress debt exchange or defaults or anything that occurs in a more difficult credit environment that doesn’t typically occur in a more favorable credit environment? Is that a meaningful amount so that moves the needle at all or is it relatively small as well? No I think it’s really as Linda was pointing out that to the extent that having companies in distress drives a portion of the mergers and acquisition activity we see in the market that can be helpful in terms of new financing to handle that M&amp;A.
But otherwise no I don’t think it really is going to have a big impact.
Okay.
That’s it for me.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Vincent Hung with Autonomous.
Hi how is it going? Hi Vincent.
Sorry but to go back to high yield again within the flat corporate finance guidance what is the actual revenue growth assumption you have in there? And I got that pricing is harder to take in this sort of environment.
In terms of our outlook we made as you saw we expect corporate finance to be flat.
We would expect the investment grade sector to be a bit stronger than the spec-grade or bank loans.
But we haven’t broken that out into further detail.
The second part of your question I apologize just slipped my mind.
Just around pricing and high yield and bank loans probably more difficult… Yes.
Now the pricing is - the pricing opportunities are similar.
I think we provide a lot of value in the spec-grade market with our research and ratings.
And so yes these are companies that have more difficult financial circumstances in many cases but it’s also where marketability of their bonds and the commentary that we offer I think provides quite a bit of value to them.
Great.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Patrick O’Shaughnessy with Raymond James.
Hey good afternoon now.
Kind of a high level question for you here so if you look at the S&amp;P 500 medium firm net debt to EBITDA I think it’s at the highest level since 2004.
U.S.
corporate debt outstanding has gone up by about 50% since 2008.
So I guess given that backdrop and given where we are in the credit cycle.
How does your view of corporate leverage kind of influence your medium and long term view of the issuance outlook? Michel do you want to offer any initial comments on that.
Yes maybe I think you are right in pointing to the fact that a number of metrics point to relatively high leverage in the system today for this entity.
I think the - what’s we’re more focused on obviously are the sort of indicators of credit stress.
We’re looking at liquidity covenant protections and default - prediction of defaults.
And then what we see is a slight uptick I mean we’ve seen a lot of things getting movement [ph] in energy and mining space.
And we have a slight uptick in the other sectors but they remain - compared to historical standards well controlled.
Now in terms of the size of the debt what we - to the extent these companies continue to operate these debts will end up - have to be refinanced.
And that’s obviously a positive development.
And as we’ve said before we continue to build our portfolio of credits we have in CFG.
And that’s also a positive for this line of business.
Thank you.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back to Ray McDaniel for any additional or closing remarks.
Sure.
Just before I close I want to turn it to Linda for a moment.
Yes.
We didn’t get any further questions on expenses for 2016 and just to make sure that we’re level-setting we often comment on the expense ramp but this time in the year we hadn’t done that yet.
So I want to make sure that everybody’s on the same page with that.
Over the course of 2016 we are looking at expenses to generally ramp from $35 million to $45 million from the first quarter to the fourth quarter.
We would caution everyone that expense timing FX movements and particularly incentive compensation can move that number around as we’ve seen in previous years.
We’ll continue to manage the costs carefully.
We have about $50 million of expense flexibility that we can move on.
If we did encounter more dramatic situation we could probably about double that but we are not expecting anything like that.
And as the year progresses of course those amounts come down.
Similarly we didn’t have any questions on the tax rate.
We are looking at 32% to 32.5%.
We can’t do exactly the same thing on the tax rate every year because we are impacted by individual audit results.
So we do expect with U.S.
being the balance of our income potentially for 2016 that we might have a little bit more to pay on the tax rate so again 32% to 32.5%.
And our CapEx guidance I think most of you saw had moved up a bit and that is primarily because of some things that we’re doing in technology and real estate as we had said before but just wanted to make sure that everyone was aware of those numbers so that can assist in your modeling effort.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Ray.
Okay.
Thanks Linda.
And just in ending the call I do want to announce that we will be hosting our Annual Investor Day this year on Wednesday September 28 here in New York.
And more information about that will be available on the Investor Relations website as we get closer to the event.
So thanks for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again in April.
Thank you.
And this concludes Moody’s fourth quarter and fiscal year-end 2015 earnings call.
As a reminder a replay of this call will be available after 3:30 PM Eastern Time on Moody’s website.
Thank you.