Good morning.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on May 17th 2011.
The conference ID number for the replay is 55658893.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 55658893.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our earnings release conference call.
Before I turn the presentation over to Terry Hildestad our President and Chief Executive Officer I’d like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you’d like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
Now during the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and the Risk Factor section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Terry followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are: Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Holdings; Dave Goodin President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Bill Schneider President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; John Harp President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; and Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I’ll turn the presentation over to Terry for his formal remarks.
Terry? Thank you Doran good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss the first quarter results.
We are off to a good start with earnings that were stronger than a year ago and exceeded our projections for the quarter.
First quarter consolidated earnings were $42.8 million compared to $41.6 million reported in 2010.
As we discussed in our earnings release we were able to successfully close out an IRS audit for certain open tax years.
Based on the results of that audit we were able to reduce previously established income tax accruals.
We view this as part of our ongoing income tax process.
Other items that affected quarterly results included a non-cash loss of $1.1 million on one of our oil hedges that did not qualify for hedge accounting.
Weather was also a factor for the quarter.
Although it’s difficult to quantify it helped our utility but negatively affected our construction materials and natural gas and oil operations.
Also keep in mind that our current year results made up for the quarterly run rate of $1 million to $1.5 million in earnings from our Brazilin transmission assets remember they were sold in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The diversity of our portfolio businesses allowed us to pull solid financial results in spite of low natural gas prices inclement weather at some of our operations and a weak construction market.
In addition we paid down $80 million in long-term debt while increasing our operating cash flow by $35 million over the prior year.
And we distributed over $30 million in dividends to our shareholders.
We have nearly a $140 million in cash on hand with access to $650 million in available credit and a strong balance sheet to fund future growth.
Now I want to move on to our individual operations and their results.
We’re pleased with the earnings reported at our natural gas and oil business.
Oil production increased 5% over the same period last year that accounted for nearly 30% of our production.
Oil production in the Bakken increased 21% over the first quarter of last year.
However harsh winter weather did affect production this quarter and continued in April.
Conditions were some of the worst in North Dakota’s 60 year oil history.
It has caused a record number of idle wells in the area because of the inability of trucks and other equipment to access our well sites.
Weather conditions including a snow storm this past weekend and weight restrictions during the spring thaw are continuing to temporarily interfere with oil shipments.
The temporary effects of weather aside though we’re excited to have kicked off our growing multiyear development program in the Bakken with the addition of a second rig.
We expect to spud the TTT Ranch 33-28H well in the next week or so targeting the middle Bakken formation in Mountrail County.
In Stark County we’ve now completed three test wells.
Our third test well the Wock was fraced last week and was drilled to total depth of 15 158 feet with a horizontal lateral of approximately 4 400 feet.
This well was drilled on a 640 acre spacing unit.
It was recently completed with a 16 stage frac job.
The initial production of the test well was 479 barrel of oil equivalents.
The well was (inaudible).
Based on our initial results of the first three wells along with what other producers are seeing in this area and initial exploratory drilling results that have varied a great deal in the region we’re using the data to determine our drilling plans for the summer.
We will continue to ramp up the development of our Bakken acreage.
We have plans to drill 18 wells and ultimately invest about $90 million for operated and non-operated activity in the Bakken this year.
Now in the Niobrara we completed our 3D seismic work.
We’re currently evaluating this data along with data from other producers in the drilling area all in an effort to select our planned drilling sites.
We have two planned drilling sites in this year this year.
We anticipate drilling the area sometime in the second half of the year.
The Heath Shale we’re also targeting to spud our first exploratory well in the last half of the year which will help us begin to evaluate our 80 000 net acre position in this play.
And then as an update our Paradox Basin exploratory oil play we own about 75 000 net acres of leaseholds.
We’re continuing to go through an environmental assessment process which we anticipate to be completed sometime this year.
Our acreage is in the Cane Creek federal unit it’s held by production.
We believe that good potential exists in this area.
We’re moving forward on our drilling program in our South Texas acreage with two rigs currently drilling in this region production associated with these properties has been a high in the areas of high liquid content that fits nicely with our overall objective.
We are excited about our E&amp;P group.
In 2011 more than half of our overall capital will be allocated towards the exploration and production business and we’ll be concentrating on increasing our oil production.
We continue to actively seek new leaseholds in existing production areas along with new emerging plays to best position ourselves for the long-term in this business.
We are also pleased to welcome Kent Wells to our corporation.
Kent is an E&amp;P industry veteran with over 30 years of experience who joined Fidelity’s team as President and Chief Executive Officer effective yesterday.
You’ll all get a chance to meet and visit with Kent in the next few months.
Next earnings at our pipeline and energy service group were impacted by lower gathering and transportation volumes.
Lower volumes transported to storage coupled with higher withdrawals from storage resulted in a 24% decline in total customer storage balances at the end of the first quarter.
This business has several organic projects in the works.
Construction on a 12-mile high pressure transmission pipeline to take gas from a new processing facility in the Bakken area to Northern Border’s pipeline will begin late this summer.
In addition we are moving forward with plans to expand our pipeline capacity throughout the Bakken production area in Western North Dakota and Eastern Montana.
And we have plans to add firm deliverability to out Baker storage field.
We expect the project to be completed by November adding approximately $35 million cubic feet per day to our existing firm deliverability of $115 million cubic feet a day.
Our pipeline is at the heart of the energy production in the Bakken.
The amount of associated gas produced in this area will continue to rise with increased drilling activity.
Since 2005 North Dakota’s gas production is about double.
Predictions indicate that this trend will continue equating to further opportunities to transport store and gather this resource.
We continue to look for expansion opportunities in our existing service areas and use our expertise to expand in new locations.
At the utility business significant colder weather throughout our service territories resulted in a 15% increase in natural gas sales and a 6% increase in retail electric sales providing strong earnings for the quarter.
A rate increase in Wyoming last May as well as interim increases in North Dakota and Montana also contributed to the year-over-year earnings improvement.
We continue to work with the Public Service Commission in our states to achieve fair and balanced regulatory outcomes while providing our stake holders long-term value in owned generation and safe reliable service to our customers.
We’ve reached a settlement agreement on the North Dakota rate case that will allow an increase of $7.6 million annually.
Effectively that’s the same as their interim rate granted back in June of last year.
The North Dakata PSC will hold a hearing on the settlement in a couple of days.
In Montana we were granted an interim increase of $2.6 million effective February 14th 2011 and we’re currently in settlement discussions with the Montana Commission.
We’re excited about the opportunities to grow our rate base.
We have plans to invest over $150 million per year in our utility over the next five years We experienced a nearly 6% increase in electric customer accounts in the Bakken area quarter-over-quarter and look forward to continued high demand in that area.
In addition we continue to evaluate our options to replace purchase power with owned generation and to pursue opportunities to develop high voltage transmission lines and system enhancements.
Our utility provides the strong foundation for growing earnings and is a reliable contributor to cash flow.
Now moving on to our construction businesses; poor weather affected the start of the construction season adding to the normal seasonal loss for the construction material segment.
Although the business continues to be affected by the weak housing market and the lack of a long-term federal highway funding it’s experiencing steady bidding opportunities.
Backlog increased from year end to about $569 million this quarter.
This includes two large harbor expansion projects.
Work on the L.A.
harbor deepening project is continuing and we expect work to get underway on the Port of Long Beach Middle Harbor expansion this quarter.
Groundbreaking occurred on the $5.5 billion Hawaii light rail transit project.
We expect to provide cement for this project and have the opportunity to supply ready-mix concrete and aggregate to the project as well.
Construction on our new liquid asphalt terminal is underway in Cheyenne Wyoming.
Two large storage tanks have been erected.
We expect the terminal to be online late this year.
We’re very pleased that the recent cuts in the federal funding did not affect the federal highway program for the year.
There’s another short-term extension through September 30th 2011 that kept funding at the current level compared to last year.
We will continue to lobby for sufficient funds to meet our nation’s infrastructure needs.
While this business continues to contend with the weak market efforts to control cost and maximize its resources are working.
SG&amp;A costs are down approximately 40% from its peak.
We’re well positioned for the long-term.
We will continue to take advantage of our vertical integration and strategically managed our 1.1 billion tons of aggregate and our growing liquid asphalt storage capacity.
Construction Service businesses reported a solid first quarter with revenues that were 33% higher than a year ago.
Workloads increased in the western region and our specialty equipment and materials group had another strong quarter.
This business has taken many actions to better position itself during the current economic cycle.
SG&amp;A costs are down about 30% when compared to two years ago.
Bidding efforts remain disciplined with the group backlog includes work with solid margins rather than jobs just to grow revenues.
We began to frame and set polls for a 50 mile 345-kV transmission line in Kansas.
This is a longer term project planned with completion mid-year 2012.
We have a number of crews that are performing storm work this quarter and we’re in the process of bidding a number of outside projects.
Conditions are improving in the Vegas market as casinos began to move forward on major remodel projects.
Solar work continues strong where we expect revenue just north of $50 million in 2011 with potential for more in 2012.
We recently finished another successful refinery turnaround job and we’re scheduled for a couple more projects this fall.
This group is adapting well to the current market conditions.
EPS guidance for 2011 has been reaffirmed in the range of $1.05 to $1.30.
We’re pleased with our first quarter results.
For the remainder of the year natural gas prices are predicted to remain low and a slow recovery is anticipated for our construction operations.
However we’re excited as our E&amp;P operations continue to explore our oil plays and our utility continues to grow its rate base.
As always we’ll update the guidance as the year progress.
Stock performance for the quarter has been strong.
Total shareholder return was 14% that exceeded the S&amp;P 500 and S&amp;P mid-cap 400 and the average of our peer group.
On a longer term basis our ten-year compounded annual growth return was 7%.
Our financial strategy is paying off.
We have a strong balance sheet 65% equity good liquidity that can support growth in our exploration and production and at the same time position all of our businesses to take advantage of growth opportunities that we expect to occur in a recovering economy.
This year is off to a good start.
We are ready to build on this by investing more than $0.5 billion into our businesses this year.
We are pursuing a variety of growth opportunities and we are excited about the outlook.
Our plans include investing $3.5 billion over the next five years primarily for organic growth that’s a 27% increase over the capital invested during the prior five-year period.
We expect to fund these capital expenditures without having to issue external equity.
And we are pursuing growth through acquisitions which would be incremental to this investment.
We have an extensive history of rewarding shareholders through payment of dividends with a five pound compounded annual growth rate over the past five years.
Our dividend is currently yielding 2.7%.
We believe our long-term prospects for the business is strong.
Thank you today for your time.
We’d be happy to open the lines up now for questions.
Operator?  (Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Good morning Paul.
Good morning Terry.
Just real quickly would you say that weather was a net benefit or a net hurt for the quarter I know it’s had a lot of different pieces.
Well Paul it’s a good question.
Overall you know the construction businesses typically have a tough quarter but weather hurt our construction business a bit; certainly impacted the production in our largest cash flow generating area which is the Bakken area right now.
I mean that’s hitting all of the headlines locally and otherwise so our utility although we did benefit from weather we have weather normalization in some of our areas.
So I- it’s hard to project that Paul but I would say we certainly had a modest negative effect all together.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from Timm Schneider with Citigroup.
Hi guys how it’s going.
First question is can you talk little bit about what you are seeing as far as cost inflation goes on the E&amp;P side especially in the Bakken? Sure Steve you want to handle that? Yeah Timm this is Steve Bietz.
You know I think we’re seeing some upward pressure particularly on the service side.
We’ve got our contracts in place for drilling activity but on the service side we’re seeing some upward pressure and I think we’re doing our best to manage that but we are seeing upward pressure there.
In terms of some of the other areas probably not as much Bakken in particular it is – we are seeing some pressure there.
Got it.
And then just sticking in the Bakken for a second obviously you’ve got the first well you drilled in the Stark County the Kostelecky I think came on at 1 350 IP rate per day the second or this third one it’s close to 500.
I was just wondering if you are seeing any differences with respect to if you’re delineating the acreage anything different as far as the drilling completing methods go what was the difference? You know I think our completion efforts and drilling techniques there were pretty much the same in all three.
I think some of that – our second well which is probably the poorest we just saw some lower reservoir pressures.
We are trying to think about what might be the driver there on the positive side on that well.
We’re doing a work over.
We are putting a pump on that.
We’re going to see what kind of oil production we can sustain when it’s on pump.
So I think it’s important to kind of watch that on a go forward basis.
I think there have been mixed results in the area.
One thing just to remember is we drilled relatively short laterals on all three wells.
I think they’ve all been a little over 4 000 foot horizontal laterals.
The thought is as we go forward doing some closer to 10 000 foot laterals probably increases some of our initial production rates on some of those wells as well and we’ve got that built into our plans on a go forward basis.
Got it.
And just to confirm did you guys actually have rigs not drilling or was it just an issue of not getting the completion services in because of the weather? Couple of things I think our rigs were operating in the majority of the time.
It’s more on services it’s also kind of moving rigs and equipment from site to site is where we have some delays.
And then quite frankly just moving and getting the oil hauled off the well sites that’s where we probably saw the biggest effect with the snowy conditions.
In some areas our tanks were full and we had to shut the wells in for periods of time until a truck could get there to get the oil haul off.
Got it and just real quick switching gears here on the asphalt side do you guys just sell road asphalt or do you also dabble in roofing flux? Timm Bill Schneider here.
We just sell asphalt through (inaudible).
All right that’s it.
Thank you.
Thanks Timm.
(Operator Instructions).
Your next question is from Monroe Helm with Barrow Hanley.
Hanley</strong> Good quarter.
I’m wondering if you have an update on what the production rate is at the Kostelecky well at this point in time.
A little background on that.
We had some operational problems with that well and had it shut in much of March as well as April.
Hanley</strong> Okay.
And so I’m trying to get a workover rig on there to pull some frac string out.
We did get that completed; it is back on production here about a week ago.
It’s currently in that 400 barrel a day range.
Hanley</strong> Okay.
And how about the second well the Oukrop? Yeah the Oukrop well that well we’ve currently got a workover rig on it putting a pump on it and we expect that to be back on production probably sometime late this week.
Hanley</strong> Okay.
And how many you talked about 18 wells in the Bakken overall for this year at $90 million spent how many of those wells are going to be in Stark County would you say? Right now we’ve got six plants for Stark County and the balance up in Mountrail.
Hanley</strong> Okay.
And Kent Well has just joined at what point in time will you have him out in front of the investing community.
And do you expect that there will be any significant changes to your program this year since he has come on board or is that more an outlook for next year or you might have some different thoughts on what to do? Yeah I have and that’s a good question.
Kent is on Board now.
He is spending sometime familiarizing himself with of course our people and our assets and he has done that a bit over the last few months but he is on board.
First day was yesterday.
We’re having our analyst seminar in Denver in August 2011 and he’ll certainly be available in there and have his feet on the ground at that point in time.
Hanley</strong> Okay great.
Thanks for your comments.
Thank you.
Your next question is from James Bellessa with D.A.
Davidson &amp; Co.
Good morning.
Good morning Jim.
The Merricourt transmission line what are you saying about that? Hi Jim this is David.
Certainly Xcel’s notice to enXco does not directly affect us and that our agreement as with the enXco for the development of that it and we continue to work on that although we’re watching the transaction carefully on the other side of this.
How about the Eminent Domain in Montana? Yes Jim this is John Harp.
As you know the House Bill 198 has passed both in House and Senate and it’s on to the Governor’s desk.
What I’m hearing it’s going to become law.
And obviously that will help us get back on track with the accelerated case in CapEx.
Hopefully within five to six months hopefully we’ll be in position to condemn the land do Eminent Domain to work with those land owners and particularly in Montana.
So we’re hoping that at least by the end of summer early fall that we are in a position to get into some of those areas where we can basically lock up access and shut down.
During your Analyst Day the there was expression that you’ve been looking for acquisitions in the utility front what can you say about that? Jim I would say that that’s still part of our growth strategy and it’s an area that we continue to look at.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Jim.
(Operator Instructions).
This marks the last call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on May 17th 2011.
The conference ID number for the replay is 55658893.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 55658893.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
While first of all thank you for participating in the call and we look forward to having other opportunities to speak with you again soon.
Again just to reference back to guidance it’s early.
It’s unusual for us to do much with guidance at the end of the first quarter.
If you recall we had forecast about 15% of our earnings typically come from our businesses in the first quarter.
So we will update you as the developments occur throughout the year.
Thanks for your interest in MDU Resources.
This concludes today’s MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is (Christie) and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on August 16.
The conference ID number for the replay is 73996248.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 73996248.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
Before I turn the presentation over to Terry Hildestad our President and Chief Executive Officer I would like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you’d like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K as well as our Form 10-Q and the Risk Factor section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Terry followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Holdings; Dave Goodin President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; John Harp President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; Bill Schneider President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Kent Wells President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration and Production; and Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of MDU Resources.
With that I’ll turn the presentation over to Terry for his formal remarks.
Terry? Thank you Doran.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss second quarter results.
Earnings for the quarter were $44.9 million or $0.24 per common share.
We’re pleased with our performance in light of the difficult weather that impacted many of our operations this year.
I thank all of our employees for their outstanding efforts to fight historic flooding conditions and restoring normal operations as quickly as possible.
Each of our business units has been affected by the extraordinarily wet conditions or the high river levels.
Drilling and production activity was stalled at our E&amp;P operations as well as some delay on our pipeline projects.
Our utility shut off service for 5 000 natural gas customers in Minot North Dakota and had to build up shoreline close to one of our generating stations.
Our construction employees worked round the clock calling sand clay and rip-rap materials.
Many of our employees volunteer their time to sand bake to save company structures and assets.
While others to sand bake their employee’s homes or simply to lend a hand to strangers generosity in carrying of our employees demonstrates the true spirit of this corporation.
I’m proud of their efforts.
Now moving on to our individual operating results weather conditions at the E&amp;P operations were less than ideal during the quarter.
As we indicated in an earlier release harsh winter conditions lingered into our spring months followed by extreme wet conditions as snow melted and rain followed.
Road closures and weight restrictions limited access to producing wells and cause short-term production and drilling delays.
Despite the inclement weather Bakken oil production is up 10% for the quarter over last year and we’re excited about the growth plans as a part of our multi-year capital investment program.
We have two rigs operating in Mountrail County and are very pleased with results of our most recent wells in the area.
The Hill 31-30H was drilled to a total major depth of 19 750 feet with 9 535 foot lateral.
It was completed with a 30-stage sliding sleeve.
It was brought on to production July 6 with a five day rate of 1633 gross barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The Behr 16-21H is a Bakken in-fill well on a 1280 acre spacing unit was also completed using 30 stages.
It had a 30 day rate of 1216 gross barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The major depth of this well was 19 500 feet with a 9 600 foot lateral.
We have three additional wells waiting completion in Mountrail County.
We plan to move one of the rigs back to our Stark County acreage to begin drilling the Warner well targeting the Three Forks formation in Stark County.
We’ve recently announced our expansion into Montana’s Bakken.
We look forward to exploiting our approximately 20 000 net acres in Richland County during 2012.
We’ve completed our 3D seismic work in the Niobrara and we’re currently working to secure a drilling rig.
We anticipate drilling our first appraisal well early in the fourth quarter and expect to drill four wells over a four-month period.
In addition we plan to drill one or two appraisal wells in the Heath Shale scheduled to commence later this year.
We’re planning to commence a drilling program on our 75 000 net acres in the Paradox Basin later this year.
Our South Texas properties have shown good results.
To-date we’ve drilled eight wells with four awaiting frac services.
We had two wells put on production at the end of June with the combined average daily production rate of $8.4 million cubic feet a day during the first week in July.
This includes 450 barrels of oil per day.
We continue to evaluate opportunities surrounding our areas of operation as well as the expansion opportunities.
Estimated capital dedicated to this business over the next five years is $2.1 billion that reflects a 50% increase from the past five year period.
We are focused on moving more towards the balanced portfolio of gas and liquids.
Our plans include adding rigs as we pursue expansion plans.
We are excited about our prospects at this business.
Quarter-over-quarter earnings at our Pipeline and Energy Service group were affected by narrow seasonal natural gas basis differentials resulting in lower transportation and storage related activity.
Going forward this business has a number of expansion opportunities largely led by forecasts that Bakken natural gas production has a by product of oil drilling will double over the next several years.
One project includes the construction of compressor facilities to expand firm capacity out of Bakken.
This project is expected to be completed late third quarter.
Final preparations are underway for the construction of approximately 12 miles of 12-inch high pressure transmission pipeline in northwestern North Dakota for takeaway capacity from Bear Paw Pass Garden Creek processing facility.
We expect to complete this project in the fourth quarter.
When complete it will be capable of transporting up to 80 million cubic feet of process gas.
In addition we will complete a similar project by constructing 13 miles of 16-inch pipe to deliver process gas from the state line one and two processing facilities into the northern board of pipeline.
This project is designed to move approximately 150 million cubic feet a day with a projected in-service date of mid 2012.
And finally the Baker storage enhancement project is underway and is expected to add approximately 35 million cubic feet per day a firm deliverability when placed into service that will be later this year.
We continue to look for additional natural gas pipeline related expansion opportunities building on the infrastructure.
We already have in place and exploring other areas and services where we have the expertise to add value.
Now moving on to the utility group strong quarterly earnings of $6.7 million contributed to record earnings for the 12-month ending June 30 totaling $74 million.
Lingering cold spring weather in the second quarter increased retail natural gas volumes 11%.
For example our Idaho customers experienced temperatures 41% cooler than normal.
Interim electric rate increases in both North Dakota and Montana also contributed to the quarter-over-quarter increase.
Final rates related to the North Dakota case were implemented July 22 with an increase of $7.6 million annually.
In Montana a settlement agreement was recently approved for a $2.6 million annual increase.
In July we filed application with the North Dakota PSC requesting an advanced determination of prudence to construct own and operate an 88-megawatt simple cycle natural gas turbine.
It’s expected to cause approximately $86 million it will replace power and we currently purchased and it expected to be in service in 2015.
Our utility continues to analysis potential projects of accommodating load growth higher demand for natural gas is adding to our industrial and agriculture customer base continued growth in areas of oil development is increasing customer accounts and we have opportunity surrounding regional transmission build out like leveraging off our existing transmission system.
Our utility has provided a strong base of our earnings and cash flow and we continue to diligently pursue growth opportunities at this business.
Our construction materials group experienced late construction starts this quarter because of historic levels of moisture in many areas of operation stretching from Minnesota to Oregon.
Also while the 20-day Minnesota state government shutdown that begin July 1 did not affect us the second quarter.
It has impacted us in the third quarter as a result of the state road projects that were stalled in July.
On the federal level we continue to monitor the events in Washington and hope of a reauthorization of the Federal Highway Transportation bill.
In spite of these challenges we are quite excited about the expansion projects currently in progress.
Our Greenfield operation based Williston North Dakota and the booming Bakken region is now fully operational in aggregate ready-mix and asphalt as well as construction.
We’ve secured several jobs in the area including a $33 million highway project that stretches 24 miles.
We anticipate additional work opportunities in the area considering the strong growth that’s occurring.
The North Dakota legislature recently allocated a record 1.7 billion to State Department of Transportation for the 2011 through 2013 budget for road infrastructure.
The expansion of our liquid asphalt business in Wyoming is on schedule for completion later this year.
Ready-mix operations have been expanded with addition of plans in Minnesota and Idaho.
We’re optimistic that we may have reached the bottom of the private market in the few of our regions.
While far from robust we’re seeing – beginning to see signs of life from residential and commercial projects for example in Northern California we’re working on a subdivision project now with modestly priced homes that are being built.
We saw volumes in all product lines increase in our Pacific region this quarter.
We’re hoping this momentum will begin to spread to other markets.
Work is progressing well on the harbor expansion projects in Long Beach and Los Angeles.
In addition a number of quality niche type projects are ongoing.
Our construction materials group has a solid backlog of $649 million that’s similar to the backlog of one year ago.
It’s up from the March 31 backlog of $569 million.
Next our construction service business had a strong quarter driven by higher construction work loads and margins in our western region and higher equipment in electrical supply sales.
The specialty equipment in material’s division had record sales in June.
Our western companies are seen a number of transmission and substation projects out forbids along with stronger demand for distribution work.
We’re pleased to have been recently awarded a 20 megawatts solar project in Nevada.
We’re bidding on a number of casino build our projects and we were recently awarded a casino project in the Ohio market.
The industrial service division is planning the second phase of a turn around refinery work for later this year.
The first phase increase throughput from this facility from 65% to 90% by adding a new tower in implementing major piping changes.
We’re currently pleased with the results from construction service operations.
They are working hard in a difficult economy contributing strong earnings with the solid backlog of $364 million.
We continue our commitment to be creating value for our shareholders the stock performed well for the first six months ended June 30 with the 13% return.
This return exceeded that of the S&amp;P 500 and the S&amp;P Mid Cap 400 indices as well as our peer group.
On a one year total shareholder return was 29%.
Contributing to these solid returns is our long history of dividend payments with a current yield of approximately 3%.
I am pleased that dividend payments have accounted for one-third of our total annualized shareholder return over the last 20 years.
We are optimistic about our company and believe we are well positioned for accretive growth.
We intend to invest approximately $570 million into our company this year.
Our balance sheet is strong with over a $100 million in available cash and 66% equity.
Operating cash flow is up 25% from last year and we have access to nearly $620 million of available credit.
Over the long-term on an organic basis we expect to invest $3.5 billion over the next five years.
This is 27% more than the past five years.
Any acquisition of businesses would be incremental to this amount.
We are staying committed to our strong balance sheet.
Our five-year plan does not require us to issue additional equity.
At our E&amp;P business we’re committing substantial amounts of capital to the business for growth.
Our plan is to invest over $2 billion in the next five years developing existing assets.
In addition we’re prepared to supplement this with investing in new properties and producing properties.
At the utility we plan to continue to grow our rate base through customer load growth generation build and transmission opportunities.
We are also continuing to pursue acquisitions and mergers in this business unit.
Our pipeline business has a number of growth projects underway and anticipates new project opportunities particularly in the Bakken region and our construction companies have substantially reduced cost structures that have them leveraged to the economic recovery.
We’re happy to open the lines now to answer questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Steve Maresca of Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Steve.
I hope everything is getting better in North Dakota and you guys are doing as best you can so.
Thank you.
My question – a couple of questions you made 20 000 acre purchase in the Bakken.
Can you discuss what the landscape is like right now in terms of things available for purchase in the area? Yeah Kent Wells will take that question.
Yeah Steve good question.
Obviously the Bakken Basin is I think many would argue it’s probably the most prolific in economic basin going in the U.S.
So it’s highly contested.
I think we understand the basin really well.
We’re focused on certain areas.
So we were able to add still little over 20 000 acres and we’re continuing to pursue other blocks in the area.
We’re committed to focus on driving our earnings so we’re not going to go where it’s too expensive but we will go where we think we can make money.
And so there is still some opportunities but it’s largely tied up at this point.
Okay.
And it’s sounds like you guys have a fair bit of pipeline opportunities in the region you mentioned seems to be more on the gas than or maybe its more on the gas and the oil side.
Can you discuss what possible opportunities are in the oil side and maybe just order of magnitude how much growth capital do you think is needed both gas and oil over the next couple of years on that region? Steve this is Steve Bietz.
There is a lot of activity going on with the Bakken as you suggested our primary focus here to-date has been on dry gas process gas bringing that into an interstate system and moving that through our system.
We’ve got a number of projects that we’ve announced kind of on a go forward basis and are looking to add to those in the future.
We’ve also kind of talked internally about other opportunities to deal with more higher liquid gas and kind of what role we can play there and I guess we’re still kind of developing some of that and hope to move forward with that on a go forward basis.
On the pure oil side I think the at least if you look at some of the information that’s been published by the State of North Dakota there would suggest anyway that there is sufficient oil takeaway capacity out of the area kind of ask things ramp up.
There is a number of projects and expansion that have been announced by others.
We certainly look and is there a way for us to participate in some of that as well.
Okay.
Thanks a lot over that.
Thank you Steve.
Your next question comes from the line of Timm Schneider of Citi.
Hey guys.
How is it going? Good Tim.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First question is on the oil production side I see it’s now you expected to grow about 1% to 5% versus 5% to10% before.
Is that just a function of the inclement weather in Q2? Yeah Tim clearly the weather had an impact on 2Q and there is also a tailing effect there.
The weather impacted the whole industry.
Everyone was slowed down and so we have all got a little bit of a backlog to take care of as we go forward.
Although I must have meant we’re in fidelity we’re in pretty good shape on that.
So it was the impact and I think what we need to do is ramp-up our activity level to hit at the higher levels of growth we’re looking for down the road.
Got it.
And it looks like you guys shuffled a couple of things between Mountrail and Stark.
I think you’re now expecting to drill six wells and start versus 12 before.
I know you took you are down a little bit in Stark and up slightly in Mountrail.
Just wondering what the – what differences I guess you’re seeing so far in the two counties.
Yeah that’s good to pickup on that.
I think the real thing is we’re running two rigs in the Bakken.
And we’ve got three areas with the Mountrail County the Stark County and then the recent acreage we picked up in Richland County Montana.
And what we’ll be doing is we’ll be adjusting where those two rigs go.
But we’ll be running those rigs continuously and so the wells in each county could vary from time-to-time.
I just wouldn’t read much into that.
It’s just how we’re managing our logistics and our appraisal programs.
Got it.
Do you guys have any detail yet with respect to a difference in oil and costs kind of between those two areas or are those fairly similar? You’re talking about from Mountrail to… Yeah to Stark.
Yeah I think Mountrail is clearly the better part of the basin but as we’re finding in all the shale plays across the country as we work in them longer we’re able to improve them and we see the wells we’re offsetting today that were drilled a year and a half ago are doing significantly better.
So I think Mountrail better part of the play.
We’ve been there longer as an industry and so I would expect the other areas to improve with time as well.
Okay thanks.
So I’ll get back in queue.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Monroe Helm of Barrow Hanley.
Hanley</strong> Just a quick – couple of quick question to one on – you’re drilling the wells you’ve completed Mountrail County.
It looks like maybe you’re a little bit more aggressive on the lateral links in the frac stages is that right and does that pretend to change in your drilling program? Monroe on the two wells I think you’re talking about the Behr and the Hill well those were 1280 acre spacing wells kind of two mile laterals is I’d like to refer to them.
We did go with 30 stages in each which I think not only for ourselves but as industry we’re starting to see that that looks like a good quantity to go with for that length of lateral.
And I think we’re very encouraged with the rates we got from those wells.
So we will continue with that mindset as we go forward with the rest of our development there.
Hanley</strong> Okay.
And did you have any results to release in Stark County for the quarter? No we did not release that.
We’ve got three wells down there.
We’re in the early stage.
When we first bring them on they plow and then we need to clean them out and put them on pump and that has been one of the activities that’s been delayed with the bad weather.
We had a lot of problems getting in the pumping unit and etcetera.
So we’re still in the process of getting them on pump so we can determine how well they’re doing.
Hanley</strong> So we could get the results of those wells in the next quarterly call? We will keep you informed as we go forward.
Hanley</strong> Okay.
And is that mean you might release those results before the next quarterly call? I didn’t say that.
Hanley</strong> No you didn’t.
Had one other question has to do with in the pipeline side or your having these expansion projects that you mentioned I was just wondering how what kind of rate of return do you get on those kind of projects and how those rates are set are they competitive in the marketplace or that negotiated with regulators someway? Really those are set based on market their negotiated rates with the individual parties.
Hanley</strong> All right.
And we look to earn a reasonable return on investment in all of those projects.
Hanley</strong> Okay.
Can you give us a range for what a reasonable rate of return would be? Probably a typical kind of regulated return with hopefully some upside with the increase in volumes so kind of a typical FERC regulated return.
Hanley</strong> Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Huang of Carlson Capital.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Stephen.
I had a question just on with the expansion of the E&amp;P business now even more so.
Terry what were you thinking about the comp position of the business mixes and do you want to bring the other businesses back more in line at some point? Steve a good question we talked about that in the past.
We like a nice balance of regulated businesses and that’s certainly has been the trend over the last few years.
I think right now regulated side of the business if you look at our earnings is now over 40% just a couple years ago and it slipped back as the other business units grew.
So – and we like the base of regulated businesses with the growth upside potential of the non-regulated businesses.
We’ve always been very opportunistic.
We’ll have the good fortune to have a number of areas on the E&amp;P side that we can evaluate and grow out and drill now.
So it appears right now that that’s where a little more capital is being spent and that’s because we got the opportunities to do that but we’re looking for growth in all of our business lines.
But I think in the past you guys have mentioned in the construction business that there were some opportunity that you thought that you might come about has those presented itself with the market being the way it is for the construction materials business? I’ll take a shot but as we noted in the release and we’ve got some Greenfield projects going we put in some ready-mix plants and asphalt plants; we put in a new facility to handle liquid asphalt and Bill can comment on this as well.
We continue to look for acquisition opportunities.
Again we are opportunistic and we are also very disciplined in our approach as we look at those opportunities.
Bill would you like to add anything to that? No I think Terry you hit the nail on the head.
Right now there are opportunities that are probably the most optimistic for us are Greenfield opportunities.
The acquisition market that continues to be slow we are looking I think at every deal that is – that comes on the market but we are getting better returns from Greenfield versus the acquisitions.
Great.
And the last question I have for you is on construction services.
When you guys say more electrical and equipment sales whether it was like one time assets sales are can you help explain what that was? No.
We actually have a business unit that manufactures and specializes in pullers and tensioners that are used in the transmission arena and distribution.
So we are a manufacturer of those equipments and that’s what we are referring to in the second quarter release.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Hanson of Praesidis.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Could we have just an update on the Montana-Alberta line project.
Just to what’s going on there? Yeah.
Currently that project is still being held up because of right away issues as you can remember in our call in March they had to get a piece of legislation through the Montana Legislature for eminent domain which did pass.
Right now there is a group trying to get a petition to stop that new law going into effect.
So the challenges are many when you’re dealing with the narrow line particularly when it comes to the land access and we haven’t had any activity to speak up here in the second quarter and it’s really kind on hold.
What kind of backlog do we have on that or is that that’s now out of our backlog? It is minimum backlog right now.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line is Timm Schneider of Citi.
Follow-up on the wells you drilled in the Bakken if you have it hand did you have a 24 hour IP rate in the choke and casing pressure on those? Yes Tim.
You’re more into these wells than I am even.
Well.
If on the Behr well if my memory serves me right we came on in the first 24 hours at about 1500 barrels a say at somewhere over a couple of thousand PSI and then the Hill well was over 1600 barrels a day at around 1800 PSI.
But I think as we compare from well to well it’s much more appropriate to look at the 30-day different companies have different philosophies some will bring them on much stronger we prefer not to do that.
So I think it’s more of a 30-day rate that’s the comparable one.
Got it.
And what’s your current Bakken production? Its – well for second quarter we were between 37 3800 barrels of oil per day.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then just real quick on the material side can you quantify what the impacts of weather was in the quarter? Tim we of course are getting back into some of the projects that have been negatively impacted some of our new highway construction work is definitely slowed down.
We can’t put a dollar and cents bigger too but we know by the end of the season for example our equipment cost and overtime cost will be up but we can’t give you an exact dollar figure.
It all depends of course on what kind of weather we have now through the end of the season.
Okay thanks.
That’s it from me.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ellinghaus of Williams Capital.
Hey Bill.
Can you just follow-up on that.
Do you think you’d be able to catch up on any of the slowdown in the second quarter in the third and fourth quarters? Yes we are optimistic Chris.
One of the things that Terry didn’t mentioned in his opening comments because some of this stuff frankly is just happening over the last few days but one of the things that is a positive force for the last half of the year is the flood repair work that we’re going to be doing in North Dakota as well as Iowa.
As you probably know one was alluded to I think in the first question we got this morning we are still in flood stage along the Missouri River and so whether it’s dike work dike cleanup work or sandbags that you name it there is a lot of rip-rap work.
We’re procuring some of that work and we think that a lot of that work will help us out for the second half.
Okay.
Can you and John maybe address your backlogs and are you guys still being conservative? I’m kind of waiting for a turn on the backlogs.
And we really haven’t seen that yet.
Can you just address how you guys are treating the backlog these days? Well I’ll jump in first and then let John go.
Right now is the one thing that is really encouraging and here again Terry talked about it briefly in his opening remarks is the residential work in Northern California our experience over the last 20 years Chris has been is what happens in California really is a barometer for what will happen in surrounding states or maybe 12 to 18 months later.
And so with this residential work we have I think four subdivisions that we’re working on right now and that of course is a very very good thing for us.
But as we go forward we think that maybe with some of the challenges on the Highway Bill side is that we’re going to make up not only in the residential market but we’re going to continue to see just tremendous amounts of work in North Dakota.
So we’re bouncing on the bottom from the private side but we think that the DOT works pending in North Dakota as well as this bounce back now in the residential side in California I think that’s telling us that good days are ahead.
The exact timing when we’ll lift off the bottom I’m not exactly sure I can give you date on that right now.
Okay.
And just a followup on that before we get to John is this the first quarter where you’ve actually started to show a material piece of the backlog from the private side? We typically have been and for quite sometime I would say at least two years Chris our backlog has really been 90% plus on the public side and the balance in the private.
And we think now here again with a lot of the work that’s happening in North Dakota let me just talk about that just briefly for a second.
There is just a tremendous amount of discussion not only on this call but just in general about all the Bakken more.
But what’s happening of course you imagine this and for those of you that have visited here you’ve seen this with your own eyes.
But the infrastructure work not just on the highways but dealing with all of the housing issues and right now we are doing a lot of residential work now up for example in the Williston area and some of the subdivisions are substantially low.
For example Williston is a town of 15 000 and the subdivision that we’re working on right now has 2500 homes.
So we’re in there.
We’re doing work in that area as well.
So we expect – to answer your question we expect the private percentage of our backlog continue to grow and we’ll keep you up to date on that.
Okay good.
John you want to talk about the backlog? Yeah Chris I’ve never been a top-line guy.
I’m always a bottom-line guy and I’m always looking for margin.
So I’m not as concerned about my backlog is lot of other people just believe me.
You can add that backlog which doesn’t mean you’re going to make any money Sure.
So concentrate on your margins concentrate on your costs make sure you got good people which you can execute and keep the customers happy.
Okay great.
Can you talk about the Vegas market? Well actually visitor ship is up room rates are moving a little bit.
We’re actually a project that was start in ‘09 on a huge power for seizures that we were working on as reached already here in the last couple of months.
So we’ve got both of our electrical and mechanical operations working in there I mean Las Vegas is ground zero as far as the economy highest foreclosure rates probably the highest employment.
So it’s a very tough area but we gradually or starting to see ourselves improve again a lot of our competitors are in tough shape.
We have the best people in Las Vegas Burnham (ph) and that’s always been our difference few good times and bad times.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of James Bellessa of DA Davidson.
Good morning.
Good morning Jim.
The earnings in your first half have benefited from a lower tax rate than the earlier year but my calculation on a GAAP basis.
You were down 630 basis points in tax rate what can you say about the tax rates going forward? Jim this is Nicole Kivisto.
I’ll take that question we’ve got a couple of things influence in the tax rate both for the quarter and year-to-date.
For the quarter we had an income tax benefit associated with the reduction in deferred taxes related to benefit and the second item which is more of a continuing item.
We are continuing to see higher federal renewable energy credits and those relate to the wind farms that went into service in mid 2010.
If you’re trying to get to from an annualized effective rate right now we estimating that would be in the 32% to 34% range.
All-in tax rate for the year 32% to 33% did you say? Yeah around 32% to 34% for the year.
Correct.
33 okay.
And yet the first half was 29%.
So you’re expecting a higher second half tax rate obviously.
Right.
We had some benefits that I just mentioned.
The other one would be in the first quarter if you recollect on the first quarter call that was mentioned of an item.
In the first quarter related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters regarding our 2004 through 2006 audit cycle.
So we had a couple of items influenced in the year-to-date results.
But on an annual basis we’re thinking we’ll end up in the 32ish range.
Okay.
For construction services the slide suggested that your mountain region margin had slipped.
Is that primarily the manual issue? Yes.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Monroe Helm of Barrow Hanley.
Hanley</strong> Just a follow-up given the increased capital expending in the E&amp;P business which is historically for a lot of people were exploration productions not a great earnings generator maybe will be for you.
But how should we think about your future and lot of the growing presence of E&amp;P in the overall capital structure? Monroe that’s a good question.
We paid dividends uninterrupted for 73 years.
We continue to evaluate that dividend that’s part of the strategy of why our regulated business has grown and have grown significantly.
So the dividend will continue to be an important part going forward that won’t change.
Hanley</strong> It’s a dividend based just on the growth and the earnings of these regulated businesses or the unregulated business contributed to it? The unregulated businesses contribute as well to the dividend.
Hanley</strong> Thanks.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Huang of Carlson Capital.
Hi guys.
Just a follow-up on Bakken question here I believe the base is spreads between Bakken and NYMEX is pretty wide now it is.
How are you guys getting your oil out or are you guys trucking or railing it to that or do you guys have contract on the pipeline? Yes Steve.
It actually the prices in the second quarter actually the differential narrowed.
Again it was closer to $5 and we’re not seeing a dramatic change from now we’re early it was in the $10.
So I think what we’re seeing is that the various transportation routes out of the basin or sort of keeping tab supply and demand is working and therefore we’ve seen that.
So I think we’re not having any issues in getting our oil to market and we’re using various avenues that are available to us.
And what’s the primary avenue that you guys use today.
Are you guys using any truck rail pipes? We’re using depending upon where our location is all of those yes.
When we look forward though I think the regional growth of oil production is faster than takeaway capacity have you guys looked at some of your options as to while you guys are looking to send more through like Enbridge up north or the new one pipe proposal or how are you guys thinking about all that? Well we look at it from the industry perspective and I think I mean only time will tell as these projects go forward but I think sufficient capacity is been developed over the next 18 months to keep track of or keep pace with the supply.
So we’ll see if it all plays out that way.
But it’s looking reasonable at this point.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Timm Schneider of Citi.
Hi guys.
This is my last follow-up.
With respect to the Niobrara you bumped that up to four wells in ’11 from two earlier and then you’ve reduced 12 to 8 wells from 12 is that just a timing issue or is there something going on in the Niobrara that has let you guys to reduce your well counts there in ’12? Yes Timm what we are doing is we’ll be moving our rig there in the fourth quarter and we are going to drill four what I’d call appraisal wells.
We actually have three blocks in the Niobrara and we are going to drill two wells on each of the two southern blocks and based on how those wells go we’ll dictate what the development will be for there and then we will also look at what further appraisal work we do on the northern block.
So I wouldn’t read too much in it.
If we see some encouraging results from those appraisal wells which we’re expecting then we’ll look to add more activity in that area going forward.
All right.
And did you guys disclose how much you paid for the 20 000 acres in the Bakken? I don’t believe so.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
This marks the last call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on August 16.
The conference ID number for the replay is 73996248.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 73996248.
Okay.
And I guess I’ll close it off with a thank you.
We appreciate your participation on the call today.
I remind everybody we have an analyst tour on the 17th and 18th.
We’ll have presentations from all of the operating companies at that time.
We’ll highlight the E&amp;P Group will be in Denver.
Look forward to speaking with you again soon.
This concludes today’s MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kristin and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on November 15.
The conference ID number for the replay is 12946239.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 12946239.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Good morning and welcome to the earnings release conference call.
Before I turn the presentation over to Terry Hildestad our President and Chief Executive Officer I would like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you’d like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K as well as our Form 10-Q and the Risk Factor section of our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Terry followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Holdings; Dave Goodin President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; John Harp President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; Bill Schneider President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Kent Wells President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration and Production; and Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of MDU Resources Group.
And with that I’ll turn the presentation over to Terry for his formal remarks.
Terry? Thank you Doran and good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss third quarter results.
MDU Resources performed well this quarter demonstrating the value of our diversified business strategy.
Business as continued to focus on operating economically and efficiently to offset the effects of the challenging economy.
Our company has focused on growth.
We’ve identified a number of projects we believe will generate earnings cash flow and additional value for our shareholders.
We’re increasing liquids as a percentage of overall production at our natural gas and oil production business.
Our utility has several investment opportunities in natural gas distribution as well as electric generation and transmission that will lead to rate based growth.
Pipeline is working on a number of capacity expansion projects centered on rising levels of associated natural gas produced by development and exploration activity in the Bakken area and our construction companies are green fielding operations in areas where growth and demand exist as well as adapting their skills to the needs of the market.
Over the next five years we plan to invest approximately $3.5 billion into our company; this reflects a 27% increase over the five years prior.
At MDU Resources we are positioned to grow now and expect to be in a very competitive position as this economy strengthens.
Now I’ll move on to our operating companies and their results.
We’re pleased to report that our E&amp;P group showed a nice earnings improvement this quarter.
Earnings improved 20% with oil production up 13% that was driven by our South Texas and Bakken areas.
Our South Texas liquids production more than doubled from a year ago and we saw a 15% increase in our Bakken liquids production.
These improved results caused us to raise our forecasted liquids production increase to a range of 4% to 7% this year.
On our Mountrail County acreage record gross production of approximately 7 700 barrels of oil per day was achieved in August.
During October we spud a well in our Stark County acreage to test the eastern most block of our acreage.
Additionally we spud our first appraisal well on our Niobrara acreage.
Location work is underway in the Paradox Basin we anticipate spudding a well by yearend there.
In South Texas new wells targeting liquids on our operated properties have met or exceeded our expectation.
We are up to five rigs across our properties currently.
We expect to be at six rigs by yearend and plan to have 10 rigs deployed by yearend 2012.
All rigs are focused on oil or liquid rich plays.
Our E&amp;P business has a well defined strategy for long term growth.
Our current strategic growth projects include an approximate 400 000 net acres of leaseholds with an estimated potential of up to 900 net well locations.
We expect to continue to accelerate oil exploration activities to produce a more balanced portfolio while maximizing cash flow from existing properties.
We are also focused on pursuing additional leaseholds.
We intend to invest over $2 billion for exploration and development in the next five years acquisition of producing properties would be incremental to this amount.
Next our pipeline of storage group earnings continued to be effected by narrow seasonal natural gas basis differentials that resulted in lower transportation and storage related activity this follows two consecutive years of record storage volumes.
This group is focused on several expansion projects that are in the works in the heart of our pipeline system.
Over 2 000 horsepower of compression was added at our Charbonneau station in northwestern North Dakota that can increase capacity of our existing natural gas pipeline by a total of about 27 million cubic feet a day.
That’s a 30% increase in capacity.
This pipeline is now capable of transporting approximately a 120 million to 130 million cubic feet a day.
Construction has begun on approximately 12 miles of pipeline providing takeaway capacity from our Garden Creek processing facility in northwestern North Dakota.
Preparations are also underway for a 13 mile pipeline to provide takeaway capacity from the Stateline I and II processing facilities in the same area.
These projects will more than triple our takeaway capacity for Bakken gas.
With the surging Bakken activity associated natural gas production reached another all time high in August.
We are in a good position to continue to take advantage of energy development related pipeline expansion opportunities in the Rocky Mountain region.
Our utility continues to perform well.
It reported a nominal natural gas operating loss in the third quarter that’s a seasonal loss.
On the electric side we’re seeing robust growth in western North Dakota it resulted in a 4% customer growth for that region compared to the year ago.
On a year to date basis earnings for this group were 12% higher than the comparable period a year ago.
With respect to the Montana electric case we filed last August the Commission recently approved final rates at the interim rate increase level of $2.6 million annually or 6.3% for service rendered effective September 1st.
You’ll recall interim rates went into effect February 14 of last year.
We expect an order in the first quarter of 2012 on our advance determination of prudence filling in North Dakota related to the construction of an 88-megawatt natural gas turbine.
This project is expected to be in service in 2015 with a projected cost of approximately $85 million.
We have a contract to develop a $20 million power line to move wind power out of southeastern North Dakota to the grid.
This project is expected to be complete in mid 2012.
This business continues to focus on opportunities for rate based growth.
Now moving on to our construction materials business earnings were affected this quarter by the Minnesota state government shutdown in July as well as weather related delays early in the quarter.
Lower margins including lower asphalt margins also impacted the earnings for the quarter.
The good news is we are back to work in Minnesota as the projects were only temporarily delayed.
And in general the weather has been cooperating in October.
Our new Western Dakota North Dakota operation is very busy.
North Dakota now represents about 18% of our backlog if you compare that to a year ago it was at 2%.
Employees and equipment are being transferred to new locations from other areas of operations as the work demand continues to grow.
Jobs in Western North Dakota includes subdivision site work utility work a new transload rail facility for crude oil gas plant expansion projects and a $33 million highway project.
Another strong area for us is the Pacific region; work on the ports of Long Beach and L.A.
is underway utilizing rock from the quarry on Catalina Island.
We anticipate a total of approximately 1.1 million tons of rock will be used for these harbor projects this year.
Our new Cheyenne Wyoming asphalt terminal is receiving oil it’s expected to be fully operational by spring.
With this addition our asphalt oil storage capacity has doubled since we entered this business in 2005.
September 16th the President signed an extension for the aviation highway and transit programs at the current funding level through March.
We’re hopeful that a long-term federal highway bill will be passed prior to March expiration that includes at least level funding expenses.
Our construction material businesses strong ability to adapt to market conditions has allowed us to remain profitable during this challenging economic cycle.
Next our Construction Service Group reported earnings of $5.1 million.
This group is performing quite well this year with earnings up nearly $7 million on a year-to-date basis.
Work backlog has been holding relatively steady over the past year with September 30 backlog numbers at $331 million.
Our Specialty Equipment division continues to excel and is on pace to have its strongest year ever.
Considering that demand for our products we are expanding these operations to another strategic location that should fully be operational by year end.
In addition we are opening an electrical supply distribution office in the booming northwestern North Dakota related to the Bakken fields.
This group is working hard to find the right opportunities.
It’s our practice to establish good relationships and to focus on maintaining long-term customers and by doing quality work and completing projects on time.
We recently committed more completed more than $30 million of electrical work on a manufacturing facility in the West.
Because of our team’s level of expertise and commitment to the project the general contractor recently awarded us two additional jobs.
We’re optimistic as we look ahead many utilities are looking for increased transmission work persistent reliability and to transport wind generation.
In addition we’re seeing some market improvement including the Cleveland and Las Vegas markets.
MDU Resources is positioned for growth our businesses are operating well and more importantly they are keeping us financially strong.
We have the balance sheet to support growth 66% total equity.
We have $622 million and available credit and cash flows are healthy up 11% year-to-date.
We have continued to provide shareholders a competitive dividend and a solid long-term return.
Our total shareholder return on a ten year basis was 9% exceeding the performance of the S&amp;P 500 and the S&amp;P 400 indices.
MDU Resources has a long history of operational strength.
We have solid expertise in our business lines our financial discipline is second to none it has is very well positioned we remain committed to operating with integrity and creating shareholder value.
For all these reasons we’re excited about our future as we look at the abundant growth possibilities within reach for MDU Resources.
And with that we’ll open the lines up for questions.
Operator?  (Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Timm Schneider with Citigroup.
Hey guys how is it going? Good.
Good morning Timm.
Hey on the construction material side I see overall volumes are up kind of 5% year-over-year but operating income is down 16% so it seems like there was a slight uptick in relative O&amp;M expense but is it fair to assume that pricing maybe wasn’t as robust as it had been before? Timm good morning Bill Schneider here Timm that’s of a part of the story but the other two big issues really were the winter fuel cost for asphalt oil in the Midwest area was higher than we’ve seen in the past that had a big impact.
And then the other thing is Timm as our diesel costs are up about $13 million year-over-year so those two really were the major factors.
Got it.
And then how much of your backlog right now is tied to kind of the Bakken buildup? Right now is that I can’t give you the specific percentage Terry mentioned to you is that we have 18% of the total backlog right now but I will tell you this Timm is we are lining up our work for next few year that number will continue to rise what has happened Timm is besides our traditional materials and constructions for the public arena we are doing more and more work for the oil patch and that’s of course at much greater margin so next year and the years after that really look good for us.
All right thanks and then just switching to the E&amp;P side real quick.
With respect to Niobrara the four exploration wells are you expecting to get any of those started before Q4 here or before the end of the year I should say? Actually Timm it’s Kent.
We’ve already spudded our first well.
We’re actually setting casing getting ready to drill the horizontal lateral so we’ll have finished that well and started the second maybe even the third before the end of the year.
Got it so we should have results by Q4 or in the Q4 call I should say? We’ll certainly share the results with you as soon as we have them.
All right thank you.
And then just can you remind me what your average working interest is in Stark County? In Stark County it varies we have everything from 100% working interest down to gee I don’t know what it is on the bottom end may be 25%.
Okay got it then just real quick on the cost side.
I saw D&amp;A ticked up sequentially is that kind of a good run rate assumption given the shift towards more oil directed drilling? Well that’s clearly what we are seeing today of course as it changes going forward it’s all that what rate are we adding reserves at what cost and we’re very focused on what I call our finding &amp; development cost driving that down as we ramp up our activities.
Okay and then the sequential decline in LOE costs anything that was driving that.
No I think there is clearly pressure in the system on cost but I think we’re doing a good job of controlling that and we’ll see that bounce around a little bit but I think the team does an exceptionally good job of managing our cost.
All right thanks guys.
Thank you Timm.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question is from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
The number of wells potential wells in the Niobrara and Bakken went up pretty sharply what drives that.
Paul this is Kent.
It depends whether you’re talking about end of year or total potential where is your question? Just comparing this release to the second quarter release for instance Niobrara I’ve said in the second quarter 100 potential future gross wells and now that’s switched to 200.
Yeah I think just as we’ve continued to work on the play and as we’ve got seismic results and seeing what other operators have done we’ve just updated our estimate on what we see there.
I think as you’re well aware we’ve got about 65 000 acres there in three different blocks.
We’ve just started drilling and we’ll know more over the next six months as we appraise that acreage.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks Paul.
Next question comes from the line of James Bellessa with DA Davidson.
Good morning Jim.
Hello James your line is open.
And I believe that question has been withdrawn.
Your next question is from the line of Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Hello.
Yeah good morning guys how are you? Good Stephen good morning.
I just have a question and you talked a little bit about acquisition opportunities and I would just ask where geography wise do you think you would be focused what size you feel comfortable with and then and sort of what line of business do you think this would be in more? Is it more on the E&amp;P side than some others? Stephen I will take a shot at that.
We have business development teams at all of our business units exploring opportunities to grow their business.
Certainly the oil and gas team is looking for new leaseholds and producing properties that we’ve evaluated a number and we continue to do that.
Our construction materials company and our Construction Service Group as I had noted in our transcript formal remarks there they are green fielding new operations.
We’ve got our asphalt terminal up running now in Wyoming and we have our expansion into North Dakota at the construction materials and at the construction services expanding into North Dakota as well and expanding our manufacturing group because that’s been so.
But they continue to look at opportunities as well.
They all have their own cost to capital and they are looking at growth opportunities as far as acquisitions.
The utilities got a team working and although right now primarily we are looking at organic growth with expansion of our gas plant and our environmental upgrades and some piping improvements.
We continue to look for acquisition opportunities there as well.
As we are in the pipeline now on the pipeline we have three projects going now they are looking for acquisition opportunities as well.
So opportunistic I think the thing to remember there is we will be very financially disciplined as we go forward with all these business lines.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This marks the last call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on November 15th.
The conference ID number for the replay is 12946239.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 12946239.
Your next question is from the line of Monroe Helm with Barrow Hanley.
Thanks.
Sort of jumping here at the end of the call.
I was wondering if you could give us any color on – your thoughts on CapEx for 2012 relative to 2011 in particular in the E&amp;P space and in that particular subsector how they are kept spending amount related to their cash flow? Yeah.
We can do that Monroe do you want to cover it Kent or? Yeah.
I think Monroe as we shared at the Investor Day in August we’re continuing ahead with that plan as we’ve laid out.
We’re ramping upper activity.
We expect to be at six rigs by the end of the year and then continuously adding throughout 2012.
If you remember the appraisal programs that we set out for all our major assets depending on how those go we expect to see significant liquids growth going forward and we’ll be cheering that 2012 guidance I think in February.
Okay so at that point tell me you’ll talk about your production goals for 2012 or related to the 2011? Yes.
Okay great.
Great.
Monroe Monroe excuse this is Doran.
Just to provide a little bit more color commentary again on the capital again overall I think as you’ve heard Kent’s business is really in growth mode and that’s requiring some capital and as far as your question on cash flows at that particular business we’re probably going to spend more in capital than what we generate in cash flows in the early years as we look forward here.
But I think that’s one of the benefits of being a part of a diversified group of companies where cash flows that are are kicked off from all of our business units come together to make up that difference essentially.
And as we communicated in the past our current version of our forecast about $3.5 billion we’re not forecasting to having to issue any equity as it relates to that we’ll again update that here at the yearend call.
But it’s great to be in a position I think where you’ve got growth opportunities you’ve got a strong balance sheet you’ve got a great credit rating you’ve got cash on the balance sheet and you’ve got excellent liquidity off your lines of credit.
So we feel like we’re really in a great position from an investment perspective.
Okay well congratulations on making good progress and look forward to better results down the road.
Thank you Monroe.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Okay well we appreciate all of your participation on the call today and we look forward to seeing you soon.
Again we will be at the EI next week hopefully we’ll see some of you there.
And as mentioned just a minute ago our plans for providing guidance for 2012 we’ll do that with our yearend earnings report in early February.
So thank you again for your interest in MDU Resources.
This concludes today’s MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tanisha and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group 2011 Year-End and 2012 Guidance Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 PM Eastern today through 11:59 PM Eastern on February 16.
The conference ID number for the replay is 40840208.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 40840208.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
And before I turn the presentation over to Terry Hildestad our President and Chief Executive Officer I’d like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you’d like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K as well as our Form 10-Q and the Risk Factor section of our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Terry followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions today during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call are Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Holdings; Dave Goodin President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; John Harp CEO of MDU Construction Services and Knife River Corporation; Kent Wells President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production; Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I’ll turn the presentation over to Terry for his formal remarks.
Terry? Thank you Doran.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss the results for 2011 and our 2012 outlook.
I’m pleased with our performance in 2011 earning $225.2 million or $1.19 per share from continuing operations.
Our businesses finished the year strong.
We made substantial progress in preparing the company for future growth.
We successfully completed the first stage of a multi-year capital investment effort that we believe will increase our profitability.
We also increased our dividend for the 21st consecutive year.
Moving on to our operating companies I’ll start with our E&amp;P operations.
I’m excited about how this group has built up a solid momentum in its business.
We increased our oil production 12% in the fourth quarter and 7% for the full-year compared to one year ago.
This was largely the result of record production levels in our Bakken position where we saw a 16% increase over the prior year.
We now have eight rigs drilling across our properties focused on oil rich plays.
That’s up from two rigs one year ago.
We have continued to focus on a more balanced commodity mix with oil production now representing 32% of our overall production.
This is double what oil represented five years ago.
We’ve also continued to focus on pursuing additional leaseholds.
Our Bakken position is now up to 95 000 net leasehold acres that’s up from 66 000 net acres last year.
This includes our Mountrail and Stark Counties in North Dakota and Richland County in Montana Holdings.
We have plans to drill nearly 30 operated wells in the Bakken this year.
On our 65 000 net leasehold acres in the Niobrara we have drilled our first test well and are awaiting results.
We are finishing the drilling of our second well and expect to drill a total of four operated wells this year as well as participate on various non-operated wells.
Additionally we have recently spud a well in the Paradox basin where we expect to drill four wells this year on our 75 000 net acres.
We have continued our drilling efforts in Texas with 20 wells planned throughout the year.
In addition our first well was recently spud on our 90 000 net acres in the Heath Shale; we have plans to drill up to four wells on this acreage this year.
By mid year we expect to have completed much of the appraisal process on our exploratory acreage so we’ll be in better position to talk about initial results at that time.
Our E&amp;P business has a well defined strategy for long-term growth.
We expect to invest approximately $400 million in this business this year and a total of $2.2 billion over the next five years with acquisitions of producing properties incremental to these amounts.
We are pursuing additional lease holds with approximately $25 million in capital reserve for this purpose this year.
We continue to accelerate oil development and exploratory activities.
We are projecting oil production to increase 20% to 30% this year over last year.
And as we look further out we are excited to have as many as 900 future potential well sites identified on our oil and liquids rich properties.
Next our utility had another solid year reporting record earnings of $67.6 million.
We experienced overall electric customer growth of 2% in 2011 and that was driven by a 5% increase in electric customers in the booming Bakken region.
We now have over 970 000 electric and natural gas customers.
This business continues to focus on opportunities for rate based growth.
We are planning to invest $915 million in this business over the next five years.
And we are projecting a corresponding rate base growth of 6% compounded annually through 2016.
We have two substantial growth projects for – in for advance determination of prudence settlement agreements have been filed the $125 million Big Stone environmental upgrade and the $85 million combustion turbine to be constructed in Mandan North Dakota.
Final orders are expected on both these projects this quarter.
Other growth opportunities range from the potential large natural gas lines projects to large grain drying customers.
We are engaged in a project to build a natural gas line to the Hanford nuclear site north of Richland Washington.
This is a 30 mile line that would travel under the Columbia River to the center of the nuclear reservation.
Of course the Bakken activity continues to spur significant growth development in both natural gas and electric for traditional and non-traditional customers.
One major opportunity we’re currently working on is supplying natural gas to heat water for use in well fracking processes.
We have one water deep hole hooked up.
At this point there are others in the development stages.
And lastly this group is three-fourths of the way complete on a 30-mile transmission line project in southeastern North Dakota associated with the proposed wind farm.
We’re very pleased with the growth potential of our utility.
Now turning to our pipeline and energy service operations; earnings for 2011 were affected by storage levels and we’re 39% lower by year-end than the prior year’s record levels.
This was driven by considerably narrowed natural gas pricing spreads.
In spite of the storage situation; our position in the Bakken region is presenting substantial growth opportunities.
We’re seeing higher natural gas transportation levels in this area with associated gas produced in the region at record highs and continuing to escalate.
We recently completed two significant projects to serve the needs of the Bakken development.
The 12-mile Garden Creek high pressure transmission pipeline and an interconnect to a new processing facility near Belfield.
In addition we continue to progress toward a mid-year in service state for a 13-mile pipeline that will deliver processed gas from the Stateline processing facilities into the Northern Border Pipeline.
We have doubled our take-away capacity in the Bakken in the last 12-months to about 240 million cubic feet a day and we’ll nearly double that again in the next several months.
In addition we’re also pursuing additional oil and natural gas opportunities including gathering and processing.
We’re in a great position to continue to take advantage of our energy development related opportunities in the Mountain region.
Now moving on to our construction materials and service companies.
We recently announced the combination of these businesses under the leadership of John Harp.
We’re confident the reorganization will better position us to take advantage of growth opportunities in the industry.
On a combined basis construction earnings for the year were $48 million; that’s slightly higher than the 2010 earnings level.
Earnings for the fourth quarter improved by 22% compared to a year-ago.
Some other factors contributing to this increase were the extended construction material season which ran late into the forth quarter (inaudible) working by our southern California operations we had electrical and transmission equipment sales and rental work additional refinery work and utility transmission work.
Our work backlog has dipped year-over-year however; we’re seeing good opportunities to bid quality projects in these business lines.
As we look ahead With the record level of the funding allocated to the North Dakota’s DoT budget there are significant opportunities for roadwork as well.
We have $31 million of backlog in the Bakken area and clearly there are opportunities for that to grow.
We’ve also established a new electrical supply distribution office in Williston; that should be in operation this month.
With respect to our other geographic locations work continues on the ports of Long Beach and LA.
We believe our unique rock quarry on Catalina Island positions us very well for future port enhancements as well as other marine construction projects.
Our new Cheyenne Wyoming asphalt terminal is now receiving oil.
Having an asphalt oil supply is strategically important.
With the plant addition our asphalt oil storage capacity is now twice of what it was when we entered that business about 5 years ago.
We recently opened an electrical and transmission equipment sales and rental office in Atlanta Georgia.
This will better provide coverage to our customers in the Southeast.
Our service group has had as many as 20 line crews dispatched to Seattle to help with the storm work in that area.
Our refinery group is a growth area for us.
Also we’ve recently completed a refinery turnaround project for ConocoPhillips in Ponca City Oklahoma.
This group has done an outstanding job just completing a record level a record year for our refinery business.
We are seeing stabilization in some of our markets.
We had our best quarter ever in the construction business in North Dakota.
Ohio Kansas and Las Vegas markets are improving.
We are applying our casino expertise in other markets like Ohio with a couple of projects currently underway.
We’ve also been awarded projects at the Eaton World headquarters and the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base both of those are in Ohio.
And finally we’ve been able to engage on some profitable niche projects utilizing the unique skills and expertise of our employees one example involves a higher margin $20 million multi-year project near Billings Montana where we’re cleaning up a gold mine site.
Our construction group will continue to focus on disciplined project bidding cost control and profitability.
We’re proving initial guidance for the year in the range of $1.00 to $1.25.
We factored into our earnings guidance lower natural gas prices the uncertainties related to the construction spending levels as well as lower gathering volumes and continued narrowed pricing spreads at our pipeline businesses.
That being said we’re cautiously optimistic about 2012.
We’re excited about the substantial oil production increase; we’re targeting a 20% to 30% this year.
Our utility group continues to be a solid and reliable provider of earnings and cash flows.
In addition to the currently identified investment opportunities to the five year plan not factored in our guidance is the upside opportunities for 2012 and beyond stemming from for example the growth being experienced in the Bakken region.
Additional upside to our earnings guidance includes of course higher natural gas prices more favorable pricing spreads at our pipeline business and higher than expected construction spending levels.
As I said before we’re optimistic about 2012 as well as the long-term future.
We want to grow; we’re focused on executing our multi-year capital program which we believe will significantly enhance the value of our company overtime.
We’re in excellent financial position to take advantage of our growth opportunities as they arrive.
Our business are operating efficiently and produce cash flows from operations at levels that were 14% higher than a year ago.
On the balance sheet equity stands at 66% of our total capitalization.
We have access to approximately $600 million in available liquidity from our credit lines in addition to the $163 million in cash we had on hand at year-end.
With this financial strength coupled with being in the right asset-based industries we’re focused on capital expenditures of $3.7 billion over five years.
Based on our forecast we can do this without having to issue equity delivering value to our shareholders through a combination of growth based on accretive earnings and a competitive dividend.
Last year we delivered shareholder return total shareholder return of 9% compared to a total return of 2% for the S&amp;P 500 and our dividend yield currently exceeds 3%.
We have valuable assets our people are highly skilled and we have the opportunities to invest in growing each of our business lines.
As I said before we’re optimistic about the future of MDU Resources.
I want to thank you for taking time today.
We’d be happy to open the line up at this time for questions.
Operator? Your first question comes from the line of Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Paul.
Just wanted to touch basically in terms of financing and equity needs with this new CapEx how should we think about that? Go ahead Doran.
Hi Paul good morning.
Good morning.
How I think about is as we laid out in the press release we got about $3.7 billion of CapEx worth $700 million in 2012 of that $3.7 billion I think this really gets to the benefit of being a diversified group of companies.
We are forecasting that throughout the five year time frame we are going to average per year on average about 800 million in operating cash flows.
Now in addition to that we are going to fund some of the long-term projects that we’ve talked about at the utility for example with some moderate issuances of long-term debt to fund those projects as well as maintain our capital ratios and then as Terry mentioned we got $163 million of cash on the balance sheet.
As we take a look at the diversified groups of businesses obviously we are growing at the oil and gas business that’s requiring some capital but again the value of the diversified group of businesses at our construction companies over the five year forecast were generating free cash flow in excess of $400 million so that’s going to help us avoid having to go to the external markets for equity issuance throughout the time frame we are going to maintain a strong balance sheet and fund primarily our CapEx program with operating cash flows.
Okay great.
And then in terms of like the CapEx I’m sorry not the CapEx in terms of the environment the market environment for construction how should we think about sort of the margin issues that you are seeing there and how things might look year after next I mean year after next I mean do you – I mean in 2013 I guess.
What sort of the trends that you’re seeing out there with respect to that area? Paul this is John.
Actually we see 2012 and particularly 2013 I think we’ve hit the bottom of the market and we’re starting to see improvements.
You can see that Knife River had an outstanding fourth quarter and if you look at CSG’s earnings over this past year were up 20% over 2010.
I think we’re positioned well in the future and the things that we’ve got is we’ve got access to capital access to bond capacity because of the environment that we’ve been in a lot of our competitors quite frankly are not in the position to take advantage of this up-tick.
And we’re optimistic that we’re going to see improvements and I think we’ve got the people and the resources to respond to that.
Okay.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Paul.
I have a quick question at the electric utility O&amp;M and depreciation were up pretty markedly and I guess a lot of the O&amp;M is pension but can you just address those issues? Sure there is an offsetting some O&amp;M expenses there as well.
We also had some transmission expenses because we’re part of with a neighboring [western area] power there was some offsets in there too.
As it relates to some of the benefit related things I will turn that over to Nicole here and she can touch on those as well because that was probably more major than even some of the operational issues.
Yeah Paul during the current year the utility had froze one of their pension plans and that results in a one time curtailment expense and then in addition to that we have certain non-qualified benefit plans that are backed by assets and those asset returns due to the market volatility we saw some volatility in those returns this year.
As the market would recover in the coming years we would expect that that would turnaround.
Thank you.
Out of curiosity where are you working at Ohio? Actually we’re building two casinos one in Cleveland and one in Cincinnati.
And we’re awarded the world headquarters.
So we work for Eaton Corporation in Cleveland and actually we actually see Cleveland and Ohio’s economy returning.
And we’re very optimistic of that market.
And I think we got the people in place to take advantage of that opportunity.
Well I hope you’re right about that.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
The next question is from the line of Timm Schneider of Citigroup.
Hey guys how is it going? Good Tim.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First question is on the E&amp;P side.
In the last call you said you spud a well in the Eastern most block of our acreage in Stark and also in Niobrara I was just wondering if you got any incremental data points on these yet.
Yeah Tim.
It’s Kent.
Yes we’ve in the Stark County we’ve drilled our first well on the Eastern block.
In fact we have drilled our second well in the Central block.
On the Eastern block we frac it we got it on production.
Its producing we don’t have enough yet to have any rates to share with you.
If you remember we sort of said that was the more iffy area and there is a couple other industry wells that we’re paying attention to [what they’re in] that block.
As we came to the central block we’ve drilled our Parker well which was – let’s just say very encouraging from the drilling and we should be fracking that later in the month and have it on production in March.
So we’re quite encouraged about that.
In the Niobrara we drilled our first – two wells; the first well we’ve just put on production.
We don’t have any rates there yet.
And the second well literally we’ve just finished drilling it and we’ll be moving to our third well there.
So more to come on those [places].
Got it.
And with respect to your production guidance on the oil side are you assuming actual production contribution from kind of your exploration [place here which I deem] I guess the Niobrara and the Heath in ’12? The biggest – our production will be led by what we’re doing in the Bakken.
If you look at our capital we’ll be spending about 40% of our capital in the Bakken and about 70% of that production growth will actually come from the Bakken area.
Then of course we’ve got our Big Horn Basin in South Texas which are also in the development phase which will contribute.
And then if you look at the Paradox the Heath the Niobrara and a couple other opportunities that we have going I think there’s lots of coverage for that additional 20%.
Got it.
Then real quick on the cost side in the Bakken; what are you guys seeing there kind of directionally and also the availability of pumping services? In terms of cost like if you look at our LOE for the Bakken it moved up as with our production.
On a unit basis it was about 10% higher than a year ago.
So we are seeing some inflation there.
Although we expect as we continue to grow volumes we’ll be able to push that back down because there is a fair amount of fixed cost.
In terms of getting services we’ve been kind of working through the chain.
We now have the drilling rigs we need.
We’ve made the changes we need to make with fracking companies so we’ve got more consistent there.
We did suffer from not having enough service rigs or workover rigs and I think we resolved that this week.
We had been running two.
We picked up our third one this week so that’s a 50% improvement.
And we should be able to get some of our down wells back on production.
We may even look to pick up a fourth a little later as we continue to grow.
So I think we’re looking at that whole chain so that we don’t have disruptions like we saw in December a bit in the Bakken.
All right.
Thank you.
And last question on E&amp;P I guess how should we think about the size and scope of this asset sale you potentially outlined? And then my next question is from a timing perspective why now I guess with kind of gas price just where they are should we just assume that longer-term your view on that is negative? And also with respect to the asset what’s kind of – have you – do you have any sense as yet whether what the mix is between kind of producing assets versus spuds anything like that? As we talked about our strategy in moving to more oily strategy and we’ve been looked at all of our gas assets and which ones can help us sustain that.
And there was two assets that we’ve signaled out.
One is a very small gas field we have in Colorado Bonny Field and we’re well down in the path in moving that onto some one else so that will be more valuable to than it is to us.
Then the second asset we have is our coal-bed operation which in 2011 was about 15% of our gas production.
But it wasn’t significant at all in terms of our earnings.
And so we’re going to look to move that out by mid-year.
I think that’s an asset that someone else can add more value than we will add there and so we’ll look to do that.
Of course if we don’t get the price that we think we deserve for it we won’t sell it.
Okay got it.
Then just real quick onto construction side; I know your revenue guidance kind of down in both segments year-over-year but you’re I mean expecting an increase in margins.
I was just wondering what is driving that.
Is that just continued efficiencies on the cost side? Yes both cost side and our mix of work that we have.
As Terry mentioned in his remarks we’re obviously looking at niche markets and places where it take some more specialized workforce and we think we’ve got the people both on the aggregate side and on the services side to take a benefit.
That – so we’re looking at work that’s got better margins and recognizing the – maybe our revenues might be down but we hope to offset that with better returns on the work that we’re doing.
Got it and with respect to the $31 million you have in backlog from the Bakken how do you kind of see that progressing over next couple of years and what type of projects are in that $31 million backlog at this point? Well it’s a mixture of work.
It’s interesting if you look at our mix right now; 92% of our work is public work and the rest is private and we’re actually having an opportunity in the Bakken to get into the residential market again and doing sub-divisions.
And quite frankly that’s our sweet spot with (inaudible) we’re able to drive our margins and have better opportunity to be profitable.
But it’s a mixture of things; it’s also public works finishing a huge highway project up there for the DoT here in North Dakota that we landed last year.
And on doing work – [pad] work for the oil patch and then also obviously doing things on the construction services side as electrical hook ups that Terry mentioned in his comments and nice thing is that we’re opening up a distribution center this month in Williston from our electrical supply business and we think we can benefit from.
So there is a lot of activity coming from the Bakken and we’re trying to capitalize on all those opportunities and we’re kind of in the unique position now with both Knife River and CSG basically under one house and we’re going to be able to coordinate that work.
And the other thing is with the amount of economic development in North Dakota the DoT in North Dakota has announced the largest construction season ever.
So again we’re benefiting from that from being in our home town and our home state.
So we see some very positive things there.
Who is your primary competitor as a follow-up in the Bakken is it just a bunch of smaller mom and pops? Are you kind of the biggest (inaudible) there? You know what I never talk about my competitors.
Got it.
All right that’s it.
All right thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question is from James Bellessa of D.A.
Davidson Good morning.
Good morning James.
The formal remarks outside the E&amp;P business the name of Bakken was mentioned maybe a dozen times and you have appointed an Executive Vice President in Bakken development how big is this for you? What’s your potential that you are seeing? And what kind of revenues might be added to in the next five years?  Jim that’s a great question.
As you know the Bakken all taken together is probably the largest construction effort taken on in the country right now.
It’s a significant undertaking and all of our business lines are actually up there working.
We’re all aware of the E&amp;P side but our pipeline business and John just addressed some of the opportunities on construction construction materials companies.
We’re seeing just to put this in perspective at Knife River last year they started at zero about this time.
They have got mid-year they had a 150 employees up there.
We could double that this year.
So what Bill Schneider is doing he is doing a great job on that is we have a unique ability to provide a lot of services that are needed there in those communities.
And so he is looking at it from a short-term make sure that we get hooked with our short-term projects that are currently ongoing and then take a look strategically at longer term projects that may become available.
And then just coordinate those back to our existing business lines.
There is midstream opportunities up there.
They’re just a number of them.
So Jim we’re in the process of trying to put quantify those but they are significant.
They are significant.
John Harp is quite positive about the construction business.
But the press release talks about uncertainties and the guidance talks about 11% 12% type of revenue decrease from this last year’s revenues.
What’s happening? Why the revenue decrease? Are the margin improvements large enough to maintain profits at the last year’s level or are we going to see a dip down in construction earnings? Well Jim obviously our backlog is off a little bit but when you really look at it its not huge a lot of that is timing.
The other thing as I mentioned before we think particularly some of the work that we got in the construction material side we think we’ve got better margins because of some unique opportunities that we’re pursuing back to the niche type of work and the opportunities that we have in the Bakken we think is going to help us.
The other thing is we’re opening up a new terminal in Cheyenne 35 000 ton asphalt facility that we think is going to benefit us adding a new supply house in Williston for our electric supply business and then our equipment and sales business we’re opening up a new office in Atlanta.
So we’re trying to grow.
Some of these are greenfields and these are just in their beginning.
But we think we’re poised to benefit from that.
The one issue that we’ve got out here to is the federal funding of highways.
As you note mentioned – we mentioned in our I think our press release the house republican came out with a plan of $260 billion in the next 4.5 years.
The Senate has got plan $109 billion for two years and we’re under safety lieu.
And quite frankly there is some concern about that funding and right now that funding is good through the end of March.
So obviously when you look at particularly the construction material side 92% of our revenues are coming from public works.
So that has a big impact on what we can project.
But we’re trying to offset those things and in the construction business if you’re not an optimist you can’t be in this business.
Jim I’d just add to that as I stated in our formal comments really the uncertainties related to the construction spending we factored in our plan but they – that would clearly be an upside we will update you as the year progresses there.
At one time both the constructions had their eye on being able to service wind farm construction activity called Rim Rock in Montana but I saw recently the bids that were led out in some Minneapolis company it was the E&amp;C contractor.
What happened there is sort of some thing that you backed away from or they outbid you or what? To be honest with you Jim I kind of lost interest because of the let’s say the trouble we had with the [Mandan] project and just didn’t feel like I had the appetitive to get involved with the project that may or may not get built and quite frankly we’re going to focus on energies on things that we think we can be successful with.
Thank you very much Thanks Jim.
Your next question is from Paul Ridzon of KeyBanc.
I was just going to ask for an update on the [Mandan] project.
And then my other question is you mentioned that the coal bed assets maybe up for sale is that still a tax credit driven business or is that tax credit expired? Well this is John.
I’ll tackle the [Mandan] project we actually with roof on that project late in the fourth quarter of last year and have no impact with this going forward either positive or negative and actually they’ve assigned another contractor.
And again with all the write away issues and the environmental issues and different things we decided the best thing we could do was withdraw from the project.
We did that and were successful in that and I wish them nothing but the best.
Thank you And on the coal bed I do not believe there are any tax credits left on our assets Thank you The next question is from Timm Schneider of Citigroup Hey guys.
Just real quick follow-up on the construction what’s in the Bakken? What percentage is public there? What’s private there? I’m assuming I mean you said you could do a lot of subdivision work stuff like that but I’m assuming there is also lot of road work in there? Good point yeah like I said right now if you look at our overall mix its 92 8 public versus private.
But up in the Bakken it’s about a 50-50 between private and public.
So again obviously it gives us an opportunity to have better margins and stay competitive out there.
All right thank you.
This marks the last question for today.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2 PM Eastern today through 11:59 PM Eastern on February 16.
The conference ID number for the replay is 40840208.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 40840208.
The next question is from Rosemary Tevelow of Tevelow Associates.
Good morning Good morning Rosemary I have a question with regard to the movement of the gas that’s being produced in the Bakken.
For some time there was a problem with – and also for the oil because sometime there was a problem; there were lot of trucks moving I’ve heard stories about railroad movements of gas.
I don't know if that’s happening in the Bakken.
But are you finding opportunities to put in gathering for other drillers and what is the situation about movement within the Bakken getting into pipeline? Rosemary this is Steve.
I would say that we are seeing a number of opportunities.
In a given world where we are at and some of our gas – the investments going on the gas side we have spent a lot of time pursuing opportunities whether it would be wet gas whether it would be oil pipelining.
There’s a number of advantages to pipeline some of that oil basically; the biggest one is getting the trucks off the road.
We think that’s very positive for the state and so we’re in contact with a number of parties in that area.
We’re also looking at some of the gas that’s not being processed today and how do we bring a solution to some of that whether it would be gathering it and bring it to a processing facility and also participating in a processing facility.
So we really see that as some upside for us as we look at 2012.
Are the processing facilities at the Bakken adequate to deal with the production there? I think if you look at the processing capabilities that exist today I think the answer would be there is sufficient capacity.
There’s been a number of new facilities that have been brought on-line and that has helped to meet their needs.
Probably the challenge today is getting the gas from the well to those facilities.
And also I’ve heard that there are now trucks that are using LNG in the Bakken.
Is that a big thing? I mean are there many of those? Is that changing the utilizations still using diesel for the truck? I think the answer would be no.
There’s been a little bit of work to compress some of the gas and hall it via truck.
That’s been more on a very small kind of test situation right now that as far as I’m aware of.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to the management for closing remarks.
Okay thank you.
We’re excited about 2012.
We think we’re well-positioned.
We have a number of opportunities out there.
We’ll certainly keep you updated as we move through the year.
We again lots going on in all of our business lines and we’ll update you as we make progress in those areas.
We appreciate you being on the call today and we hope to speak with you soon.
Thank you for your interest.
This concludes today’s MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Alisha and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 PM Eastern today through to 11:59 PM Eastern on August the 16th.
The conference ID number for the replay is 93978182.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 93978182.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the call over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our earnings release conference call.
And before I turn the presentation over to Terry Hildestad our President and Chief Executive Officer I'd like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you'd like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that it's expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and the Risk Factor section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Terry followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Dave Goodin President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; John Harp CEO of Knife River Corporation and MDU Construction Services; Kent Wells President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production; Bill Schneider Executive Vice President of Bakken Development; and Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I'll turn the presentation over to Terry for his formal remarks.
Terry? Thank you Doran.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss our second quarter results.
Earnings for the quarter were $53.9 million or $0.29 a share.
The results included $15 million after tax reversal of a natural gas gathering arbitration charge as well as $5.1 million income from disposed operation.
We also took a charge relating to the gathering assets in our coal bed area of $1.7 million after tax.
Well absent these items we delivered recurring earnings at the upper range of our guidance for the quarter at $0.19.
The E&amp;P segment has continued it's impressive expansion of oil production.
In fact oil represented 44% of total production for the quarter.
This was up from 30% for the same period a year ago.
While the utility group was affected by unseasonably warm weather primarily in April and higher income taxes they experienced significant customer growth primarily in Western North Dakota.
In May we announced our $66 million initial investment in oil and natural gas midstream assets by our pipeline group and the construction group had a solid quarter and continues to see signs of recovery.
On a year-to-date basis lower oil and natural gas prices affected our E&amp;P group earnings by approximately $20 million compared to last year.
And the weather challenges that are utility totaled approximately $7 million.
The strength of our diversified business model and the strong execution of our business plans as the operating company has allowed us to partially offset the combined year-to-day $27 million earnings effect coming from these largely uncontrollable factors.
Based on our performance to-date and our outlook for the remainder of the year we've reaffirmed our guidance of $1.00 to $1.25 per share.
Now I'll move on to our individual operations and I'll begin with the E&amp;P business.
We continue to see significant oil production growth as a result of our increased drilling activity.
Oil production increased 32% over the same period last year and increased 13% from the first quarter.
The jump in oil production was led primarily by the Bakken where we saw a 59% increase in production over last year.
Our Paradox and our Texas properties also contributed to the increase.
With continued success developing the Bakken and promising initial results from exploratory areas such as the Paradox we've raised the midpoint for our oil production growth for the year.
We are confident that we will reach our higher oil production goal for the year now estimated to increase from 25% to 30% over last year targeting oil opportunities.
We've also increased the capital allocation of this business unit by $75 million to a total of $475 million this year.
On the natural gas side we have continued with our strategic shift away from natural gas production until prices increase.
Average realized natural gas prices were 36% lower for the quarter compared to a year ago.
If you recall from a press release we issued in March we announced that in February we've set a new field production record in the Bakken of over 5000 net barrels of oil per day.
Well I can tell you that for the second quarter we averaged over 5 900 barrels per day.
The Bakken remains huge for us and holds substantial room for future growth.
We currently have 9 rigs drilling; five of them are located in the Bakken.
In Mountrail County we have two rigs operating as we continue to develop our acreage position with a total of 20 wells planned for this year.
We also have two rigs operating in Stark County where we recently put some several wells on production.
The cost of Kostelecky 5-8H well came on at 1473 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Raccoons well 25-36H came on at 1456 BOE's per day and the 2E 22-15H came on at 1026 BOE's per day.
While we had completion problems with our Parker 29-32H well which still had initial production rate of 655 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We anticipate drilling a total of 14 oils this year in Stark County.
And we are very encouraged by the results we see on this acreage.
In Richland County and Montana the first two wells have been put on production.
While it's early in this appraisal process we see significant potential in this area for our Bakken play.
We've been busy completing our appraisal program in the Paradox Basin since our last earnings call.
The Cane Creek unit number 26-2H which we previously released test results for continues to be a strong producer.
It's still flowing at around 500 barrels of oil per day through significant pressure.
Our second and third wells were completed openhole.
And based on the results future wells will be completed using practices consistent with our first Paradox well at 26-2H.
In Texas we continue to develop our acreage as we target areas with higher potential for liquid content.
Probably aware that natural gas liquid prices have been under pressure in the recent past.
We have been impacted by this lower pricing however only 20% of our liquids are natural gas liquids and two-thirds of that NLG.
We received a higher amount belvieu pricing on.
We recently entered into an exploration agreement in Sioux County Nebraska.
We continue to believe the potential of this play is significant.
We've expanded our drilling program with plans to drill six to eight wells in total this year.
In the Heath Shale we have had our first two wells on production.
Initial results are encouraging although we struggled to maintain constant production because of pump and paraffin issues.
We planned to drill a total of five wells there this year as a part of our appraisal program.
On drilling three appraisal wells we have the right to exercise an option to purchase 65% working interest in Nebraska in the 79 000 growth acres in Nebraska.
Our strategy of moving to a more balanced portfolio of oil and natural gas is being executed we believe that our extensive gas properties have great long-term value of what prices where they are today we will continue to invest in what provides the greatest return and right now that's the drilling for oil.
We are very encouraged by the performance of our E&amp;P business this year and the prospect of significant and sustainable oil growth over the coming years.
Now I'll move on our combined utility businesses reported a loss of $2 million for the quarter.
This loss was primarily the result of mild weather in the shoulder winter months of April compared to a very cold April last year and higher income taxes.
For the quarter weather across our system on average was approximately 30% warmer than the prior year negatively affecting earnings by about $4.4 million.
We're pleased to report that with recent record breaking temperatures in Eastern Montana and Western North Dakota and the growth of our system load we set an all time summer peak electric peak in July this equips our previous prior peak by 7%.
We now have 975 000 utility customers with growth driven primarily by Bakken oil development.
Electric customer accounts in the area grew by 8% and gas customers increased by 6% totaling 3900 new customers in that region alone when compared to last year.
We plan to invest approximately $75 million this year to serve the growing customer base associated with Bakken.
We're moving forward with the preparation of the construction of an 88 megawatt gas fired turban adjacent to our existing Heskett Generating Station near Mandan North Dakota.
In April we obtained advanced determination of prudence from the North Dakota Commission on this facility.
The project will cost approximately $85 million and should be in service in 2015.
This facility is necessary to meet the capacity requirements of our customers; it will be a partial replacement for the third-party contract capacity that expires in 2015.
We also in the quarter received advanced determination of prudence for an environmental upgrade at our Big Stone station our share of the cost of this project is estimated to be about $125 million.
So despite the weather challenges this quarter our utility is doing well.
We've experienced substantial customer growth and they have good prospects for continued growth into the future.
Recent record breaking temperatures in our electric service territory and higher customer demand have lead to peak loads.
Our team is doing a great job finding opportunities to invest in this growing business segment.
Next our pipeline and energy service group had earnings of $15.8 million that included the benefit of a reversal of an arbitration charge of $15 million after tax.
You may recall that the arbitration case involved a disagreement regarding the terms of operating in pressure of a company owned natural gas gathering system.
We indicated when we took the charge in the third quarter of 2010 that we believe the arbitration decision was not supported by the underlying gathering agreement that we would aggressively pursue all of our legal remedies to challenge that decision.
And we're very pleased with the Appellate Court's decision to vacate the ward and remand the case back to District Court for further proceedings.
We believe it should have been there in the first place.
The Group saw a 32% decrease in gathering volumes the quarter compared to last year's customers and this was due to some customer curtailments there were some normal production declines and we had the deferral of some development activity.
In addition we recorded an impairment related to our coal bed natural gas gathering assets of about $1.7 million after tax in light of the sustained lower natural gas pricing environment.
Partially offsetting these items was higher transportation volumes compared to a year ago resulting from a relatively wide seasonal price basis differential past few months which has supported storage injection.
During the quarter the company took a significant step towards executing it's strategy to expand in the midstream space with its announcement of the acquisition of a 50% interest in oil and natural gas midstream assets near Belfield North Dakota.
In total we expect to invest approximately $100 million for our portion in 2012 and that includes the purchase price.
The investment includes a newly constructed natural gas processing plant that has an inlet processing capacity of 35 million cubic feet per day an oil terminal a natural gas and oil gathering system and other related facilities.
The oil terminal is expected to be completed this quarter.
As oil and natural gas production continues to ramp up this investment positions us for earnings and cash flow growth as we move into 2013.
We continue to move forward on determining the feasibility of a proposed diesel topping plant in Western North Dakota purchase options for the site have been executed and the zoning was approved in early July.
This facility would process 20 000 barrels per day of Bakken oil and would employ approximately 100 people.
We're looking to complete the final design engineering and economic evaluations in order to reach a decision point final decision point on this project early this fall.
The pipelines close proximity to the robust energy development areas provides us for exciting outlook as we continue to pursue multiple growth opportunities with this business unit.
Now moving onto the construction materials and service companies.
We're pleased to report the combined earnings were $5.4 million higher this quarter than a year ago that's a 49% increase.
Weather cooperated allowing our materials business an early start to the construction season.
We're seeing success particularly at our North Central regions operations which includes the Bakken area.
Across that region volumes of bagger goods ready mix concrete and asphalt were all up along with our construction margins.
We're in the process of completing ready mix expansion into a couple of additional communities in the Bakken region mainly we're expanding into Watford City and Dickinson.
As we look ahead boding well for North Dakota and the Bakken area the Governor Dalrymple recently proposed to spend $2.5 billion on state roads and infrastructure during the 2013 to 2015 biennium.
This funding would be $1 billion higher than the current level and more than quadruple of funding for the biennium ending 2011.
The construction business has currently $58 million backlog in the Bakken region and is certainly positioned well to continue to take advantage of growth the growing demand for infrastructure in this area.
If you look at a year ago we had approximately 75 employees at this time in northwestern North Dakota working for our construction businesses.
At peak season this year we expect to have between 300 and 350 employees.
We're pleased that Congress recently passed a Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21<sup>st</sup> Century Act or MAP-21 as it's called; it stabilizes transportation programs through September of 2014.
This bill includes highway funding levels for 2013 and 2014 of approximately $40 billion per year that's in line with the current year funding.
The passage of MAP-21 put states in a much better position for bidding out larger long-term road projects.
Our service business continues to perform well a primary driver of earnings growth was the continued success of the company especially equipment manufacturing and sales and rental division.
Additionally our refinery turnaround business successfully completed another project in Billings Montana and it's in the planning stages for it's next project in Oklahoma Texas and Mississippi.
Inside electrical division we've seen increased bidding opportunities and engineering activity and many other markets that have previously been depressed.
We're looking forward to these projects being released for bid throughout the remainder of the year.
We're pleased with the results from our construction materials and our services operations.
We think the market has bottomed out and we're seeing signs of stabilization.
Our combined construction backlog at June 30 was approximately $980 million that includes many high quality projects.
Now returning to the consolidated discussions we have overcome significant pricing and weather challenges and managed to perform at the upper end of our quarterly guidance.
Our investment in the E&amp;P business continues to deliver impressive increases in oil production.
With the strength of our balance sheet and the access to liquidity we were able to authorize an additional $220 million in capital spending for the E&amp;P the pipeline and the utility groups combined.
We did this without issuing equity.
We added significant liquid based midstream assets at our pipeline and our construction group continued to build momentum with a good start to the material season.
Our businesses are performing today in investing for the future to benefit our shareholders.
As a remainder we also provide a competitive dividend with a current yield of approximately 3%.
So with that thank you for your time today.
We would be happy to open the lines up now operator for questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) And we do have a question from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Just got a quick question regarding guidance and the arbitration award.
Does the guidance include that arbitration award is that excluded as a special item? You know Paul if we look at it our guidance we would be within our guidance with or without the award as we are forecasting the rest of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Holly Stewart from Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Couple of questions for Kent on the E&amp;P side.
Kent can you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing in South Texas in terms of the NGL breakdown and what are we talking about from an NGL standpoint and then what is your processing solution there? In South Texas Holly we have a lot we're with the marketing company that has long-term arrangements there.
So clearly we're seeing softening of the prices it gets in Mont belvieu pricing but we're not seeing as curtailment of any production or ability to sell our products and we don't process it but we get our value from both the gas and the liquid.
Okay.
Do you know what the breakdown midstream is?  Let me get back to you on that to make sure.
I have an idea but I want to make sure I get the right number.
So we'll get back to you on that.
Sure.
Split between gas and NGLs that's what you're thinking or is it… Yeah and then if you had any more color on percentage ethane propane et cetera? Got it.
Thanks.
And then on the Paradox you talked a bit about completing a couple of wells differently than the first well.
So if you can just give us a little bit more color there? Sure.
So on our first well if you remember we drilled about 1000 foot of horizontal lateral.
We only perforated the last 100 200 feet of the lateral came on very strong.
In fact today the well is still flowing around 500 barrels a day at £900.
We're estimating the EUR in that well probably going to be about 0.5 million barrels.
In order to connect more of the reservoir and connect all the factor systems we decided on the next two wells to go openhole completion.
About 10 years ago we had successfully pulled a liner out of the well that has been drilled long time before that and we just thought that that would be the far more effective completion technique.
We now regret that decision.
So the second well is probably its EUR is going to be closer to about 300 000 barrels.
The well is not as strong.
We did some testing on it.
We've clearly got some damage.
I think part of our problem is we drilled it with such heavy mud weight getting the heavy mud weight to flow out of the horizontal is problematic for us.
And in the third well which from all drilling and initial completion attempts we're going to just see by far that well has very high pressures which constantly trying to flow and when we initially put it on production it started to flow very strong and then abruptly stopped.
And then we went back in in the well bore a horizontal piece had collapsed.
So we're going to have to go back and re-drill that in and tape that which we will do with our current rig line and it will be just a couple of wells down the way.
So what we've done here is we're still extremely encouraged in the Paradox.
But it's deferred our production growth a little bit there.
But everything we're seeing still has is very excited about this play.
Okay and your expectation is still kind of drill the six to eight wells even though you had some issues?  Absolutely.
Okay.
We're just continuing to go and we're mapping out a multiyear program and we're looking at pipelines and everything.
It was just we thought that the better completion technique we fell could hold on and that was wrong.
Okay.
Sounds great and just a little a few comments on Nebraska.
Haven't heard much about a play there so just kind of initial thoughts?  Yeah so we're encouraged here.
We've entered into an exploration agreement a type of agreement we like where we're not required to put a whole bunch of money upfront.
We're going to drill two vertical wells followed by a horizontal well.
It is targeting oil.
It's of significant size.
We'll talk more later in the year along with our partner there to disclose more details of it.
But we have we've finished drilling our first vertical well.
We're in the midst of drilling our second and we'll shortly be completing our first.
And so I would think more in fourth quarter will be able to give more details about that.
There is some other opportunities to expand in the area and we're just not saying a lot at this time.
Okay great.
And then may be just one on both construction groups if I may looks like the revenue numbers and guidance have gone up.
Is that just a function of a better than expected second quarter or is there something more to it? I think it's obviously a little better expected second quarter.
It was obviously as nice to see our top-line revenues were growing in both construction groups.
And obviously our net is improving.
So we're happy where we're at and we're hoping for the best for the next six months.
Okay perfect and then just one final one on the pipeline segment.
Any color in terms of the financial impact of this midstream acquisition for the second half of the year? Holly this is Steve.
If we kind of look at that today and we're still seeing volume has ramped up in for that plant.
So it's not at full capacity.
Once its there it's about 35 million a day.
We're probably run around a third of that today.
So as you look at the financial effects this year kind of contribution to earnings will be somewhat minimal.
But as we get into next year it will provide an attractive return on our investment.
And is that -- those are all fee-based contracts? Some are fee based some are percentage of completion.
So we've got a little of both.
The other thing I should mention we've got an oil terminal that's part of that acquisition that should be kind of up and running later this third quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of Timm Schneider from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hey first question looks like the realizations on the crude oil side the unhedged portion was about a 23% discount to WTI and 17% discount to Clearbrook.
Just wondering what was causing that differential and how you see that progressing kind of through the rest of the year? Yeah Timm this is Kent.
First a good chunk of our oil production comes from the Bakken and that's where we saw the biggest decrements on the differentials.
As we look at the differential for the second quarter what we call the Bakken differential average a little over $15.
Now that includes $6 per trucking.
That compares to $5 to $6 differential a year ago.
So there is about $10.00 incremental drop there.
But we saw tremendous volatility over the quarter and what that actually was.
I think in June it was $11 but in April it was $20.
And then I think with our call of supply and demand there between the growing production and the expanding rail and pipeline capacity we're just going to continue to see some volatility in the short-term till the capacity expands.
So I think it's hard to sort of predict what's that going to be over the next six months.
And then I think hopefully in the next several quarters as our Paradox production becomes more significant we're not dealing with that in the same way.
Got it.
And then if you can jump to your Stark County real quick I noticed you up the spacing to 1280 from 640 and kind of cut your drilling locations to 40 from 140.
Just wondering what was driving that?  Yeah.
So when we initially talked about it we really didn't have any wells there.
And what we like to do is when we first go out and do our exploration appraisal we drill 640.
And now that we've drilled a few wells and we're confident we can drill 1280 wells they're more attractive economically to do it.
So what we've done is we've moved from we call them -- initially we're talking about 140 gross potential locations.
So those were the number of locations we had.
We would obviously cut that number in half just by going from 640 to 1280.
So what we're actually talking about now is -- these are the drillable locations we actually see that were -- we've got on a drill plan that we're going to drill and that number can continue to grow as we drill more wells and fell more confident with some other areas.
So we're actually very pleased on where Stark County is going.
We've drilled some attractive wells there.
The costs are likely in the QC and most notable.
Got it.
And then I do not know if this has been asked or not I jumped on a bit late.
With respect to be Niobrara the four wells you outlined.
I mean I guess it was your target for the rest of the year too.
Is there -- because planning they do anything more there or was that kind of it? Yes on the Niobrara we drilled three horizontal wells and one vertical well and they were disappointing results.
We didn't see results that wanted us to continue on with what we were doing.
We're studying two things right now.
We're looking at our completion technique and the technology available and did we miss the trick that might make that area the Niobrara work.
And then also when we drill those wells we came across two other horizons that looked quite encouraging.
So we're doing some G&amp;G study work on those and that will take at least through the end of the year and into next year before we decide next steps in the Niobrara.
Got it.
And what's the remaining CapEx for the kind of the Belfield gas plant for remainder of the year or within that joint venture with Whiting?  Our initial investment there Tim was about $66 million.
By the end of the year we should be including that investment right around the $100 million.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of John Hanson from Presidus.
Your line is now open.
Just a one question here on your Bakken area your neighboring ones up.
I know you folks have talked about having some water issue are you guys doing okay on that?   Yeah this is Kent.
We -- we're sufficiently have the water we need to do our fracs and we have our disposal needs taken care of.
So right now it's not an issue for us.
Overall well costs are holding in line or up down how is that going? We've made some really good improvements over this quarter on our well cost.
Remember last quarter we talked about that the cost had moved up to the $8 million to $9 million range.
We've been able to bring those back down into the $7 million to $8 million range.
And it's a few different things.
First of all we worked on that on the market so we definitely reduced our fracking costs quite significantly.
We worked on all the other supply costs as well.
And then we've made some real improvements in how we actually drill the well.
We now use a mud rig to drill our surface casing that allows us to drill wells quicker and at lower cost.
We've improved all aspects of drilling most notably was we're drilling the lateral.
We now rim and drill at the same time.
So we're doing 1280 wells in less than 30 days typically around 28 and we're getting our 640 wells down below 20 days.
So it's all round improvement and in terms of performance and working the cost and we feel very good about getting down below $8 million a well.
And we've another question from the line of Timm Schneider from Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
One more question.
Real quick on the E&amp;P CapEx going up $75 million.
Can you just help me reconcile that?  If I just look at the releases quarter-over-quarter I think it's an incremental 55 foot of Bakken and incremental 25 foot of Paradox and an incremental 20 million foot of Heath it's around a $100 million there not including the exploration play.
So I just assume that the delta is just lower CapEx in the natural gas side? Yeah Tim great question and you're absolutely bang on.
The additional capital is going to where we're having success.
So it's going into the Bakken it's going into the Paradox.
The Heath play actually is kind of interesting at this point.
We've drilled three wells.
We've got our first one on production the Schmidt well and initially flowed about 360 barrels a day and that was a three day average.
And then we put it on pump and over a 14 day period it produced about 260 barrels a day.
Since then we've had a lot of plugging problems with our pump and our pumps going down.
So they don't have big consistent data on that and we're just getting our second well on production as we speak.
But we've been able to take our well cost.
Our first well actually cost us $8 million to drill and we're now drilling them drilling completing them and put them on production for $4 million.
So that has really brought that play to be of much more interest to it.
We still want to get the rate and reserves up a bit.
We're working on our completion technology there.
So that's why you're seeing potentially some more money going there.
But our philosophy is the money is going to go to where we see the economic success and so it's not only are we getting good production results but what are the prices we're seeing.
Got it.
So if you can just -- can you quantify what your spending on gas if anything in 2012? Yeah the only place we're spending on gas is in South Texas and even that's an overstatement because we do get oil and condensate with that production and it's very rich gas.
So you could debate whether we're spending any money on gas.
But that's we only have one rig that's targeting gas in any way shape or form.
Got it.
And then have you guys disclosed to your exploration agreement this with? We have not.
And your next question comes from the line of James Bellessa from D.A.
Davidson &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
You mentioned that there was a charge for natural gas gathering assets and that was for coal bed methane activities.
Did you move the coal bed methane activities from Fidelity over to your pipeline and energy services business or were these just purely gathering assets that had already been there? Jim this is Steve.
Those gathering assets have historically and continued to be at WBI Energy.
So there nothing was moved from Fidelity.
And when you did your coal bed methane activity several years ago were they all always at WBI or were they ever at Fidelity? See all of the gathering assets and all the pipelines were at Fidelity.
Pardon me were at WBI I'm sorry.
And this marks the last call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern today through till 11:59 p.m.
Eastern on August the 16th.
The conference ID for the replay is 93978182.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 93978182.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Well thank thank you very much.
We will keep you updated as we move through the year as we always do.
This is third quarter is a big quarter for our company certainly our construction operations.
We appreciate you participating on this call today and we look forward to speaking with you again soon.
So thank you for your interest in MDU Resources.
And this concludes today's MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Eva and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group Third Quarter 2012 conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 p.m.
ET today through 11:59 p.m.
ET on November 15.
The conference ID number for the replay is 34753792 again the conference ID number for the replay is 34753792.
The number to dial-in for the replay is 1855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the conference over the Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief financial officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
For those of you who are dealing with the aftermath of storm Sandy our sincerest thoughts are with you for a return to some normalcy in the days ahead.
And before I turn the presentation over the Terry Hildestad our President and Chief Executive Officer I would like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the internet and slides will accompany or remarks.
If you’d would like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
Now during the course of this presentation.
We will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21 of the securities exchange act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results therefore refer to item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and a Risk Factors section in our most recent form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Terry followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are Steve Bietz - President &amp; CEO WBI Energy Dave Goodin President &amp; CEO of Montana Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; John Harp CEO of Knife River Corporation and MDU Construction Services; Kent Wells President &amp; CEO of Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production; Bill Schneider Executive Vice President of Bakken Development and Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I’ll turn the presentation over to Terry for his formal remarks.
Terry? Thank you Doran and good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss third quarter results.
We had a good quarter with a strength of our diversified group of companies we were able to generate solid earnings growth for the quarter even though we realize lower natural gas and oil prices in the prior year.
Our construction businesses continued to experience upward momentum and our utility business had another solid quarter driven by further growth in the Bakken.
We experienced some delays in planned drilling during the third quarter however we’re seeing strong results from wells coming on line late in the quarter and so far in the fourth quarter.
Absent the non-cash charged earnings per share increased 12% compared to the last year.
We reported consolidated earnings of $71.1 million or $0.38 per share compared the earnings of $63.8 million or $0.34 per share last year.
We have revised our annual 2012 earnings guidance to a range of $1.05 to $1.20 and this is from $1.00 to $1.25 previously.
This range excludes the effects of this quarter’s non-cash charges as well as the arbitration charge reversal from the second quarter this year.
Now moving on to our individual operations I’ll start with our construction materials and service companies we’re very pleased with the results of this group in the third quarter.
Combined earnings for the Group were $51.8 million that’s a 36% increase over the last year on 6% revenue growth.
We experienced higher construction workloads and margins as well as improved volumes and margins in our asphalt oil and ready-mix concrete product lines.
Our specialty equipment manufacturing sales and rental division had another solid quarter with an increased earnings contribution.
In addition our SG&amp;A costs were down for our combined construction businesses.
The Bakken is at the heart of what continues to feel more and more like an uptick for our Construction Group.
We continue to grow our operations in the region in August we began production for our new ready-mix plants in both Dickenson and Watford City North Dakota.
This is in the Bakken area.
Backlog in the area is approximately $50 million which we believe is a good backlog heading into the winter season.
The North West is home to much of the quality insight electrical work our Service Group has been performing this year where we’ve been engaged on a substantial project.
Further development in the region by our major tech company should provide opportunities going forward from both our materials and our service business.
We’re also pleased that we are seeing an uptick in the transmission work being bid and worked.
This represents a growing percentage of our services backlog in addition we’re happy to be doing our part to help the storm recovery work in the Greater New York area.
Earlier this week our Services Group deployed about 85 linemen to that area.
Backlog is up at both our Materials and Service groups with a combined increase of $55 million compared to a year ago.
We’ve also seen a shift to more private work for our Materials Group with private work now comprising 17% of our Construction Materials backlog.
Now that compares to 8% at the end of the second quarter.
National indicators are looking better for this group also according to the US Department of Commerce.
Housing starts in September were up 15% compared to 1 months earlier when you compare it to a year ago they were up 35%.
Construction spending is also on the rise with the first 8 months of the years being 9% higher compared to the same period last year.
In addition Congress passed a new two-year Highway Bill it’s called MAP-21.
It maintains the current funding level and allows states to move forward on larger and long-term projects.
We’re happy with the direction of our Construction Group they’re trending in the right direction we’re optimistic and it’s a sign of things to come.
Our Utility business reported earnings of $11 million that’s up 32% over the last year.
This was largely a result of continued economic growth in the Bakken area which contributed to a 5% increase in overall electric sales.
We also experienced lower operation and maintenance expenses.
Our natural gas utility business had normal seasonal loss but saw an approximate 20% improvement compared to last year related to lower operating expense this quarter.
Further infrastructure investment in the Bakken continues to be driven by growing customer accounts for both electric and natural gas services.
We have seen an 8% electric customer growth and a 7% natural gas customer growth just since last year.
We have approximately $75 million in capital expenditures targeted the Bakken - for the Bakken area this year alone just to keep up with the needs of the growing customer base because North Dakota and Montana combined represent about 85% of our total electric sales the Bakken truly is a needle-mover for our electric business and we look forward to sustained growth.
We recently filed an public application with Montana Public Service Commission requesting a gas rate increase that totals $3.5 million annually or 5.9% over the current level.
We have requested an interim increase in $1.7 million to be effective within 30 days this is the first natural gas rate increase request we’ve made in Montana since 2004.
As you’re aware approval of advanced determination of prudence has been granted on two substantial projects for this unit first the EDA megawatt natural gas-fired turbine adjacent to our existing Heskett Generating Station near Mandan North Dakota.
This has a projected cost of $85 million and second the environmental upgrade at the Big Stone Station that’s necessary to meet EPA standards for which our share of this cost is estimated to be about $125 million.
Our Utility group is focused on growing it’s rate face and alongside that its earnings.
To do so requires capital investments we have nearly $1 billion in capital forecasted at the Utility of the next five years.
We anticipate that investment will result in nearly a $400 million rate base growth.
Of course we continue to pursue acquisition opportunities as they arise they are not included in our capital forecast.
We look forward to growing our utility through smart solid investments that are necessary to meet our customer’s meets.
Next our Pipeline and Energy Service Group compared earnings of $3.3 million that compared to the earnings of $5.2 million for the same period in 2011.
The decrease was largely the result of lower gathering volumes as producers cut back on natural gas production because of uneconomic price environment.
We did experience higher storage service revenue.
Natural gas prices aside good progress has been made in efforts to grow the mid-stream business we recently exercised an option to purchase land for the proposed diesel topping plant site.
The total cost of the project is expected to be approximately $280 million to $300 million.
Again we think this is a good project it’s something the state really stands to benefit from and it has the potential to positively affect each of our business units.
Earlier this year we announced the acquisition of a 50% interest in Pronghorn natural gas oil mid-stream assets near Belfield North Dakota that’s in the Bakken region.
The 2012 portion of our investments in this is approximately $100 million production is coming online it’s continuing to ramp up and we expect this investment to provide accretive earnings and cash flow to be the business unit.
We also continue to expand our system for dry natural gas transmission assets.
In August approximately 13 miles of high pressure transmission pipeline from the state line processing facilities to Northern border pipeline replaced and serviced.
We doubled our take away capacity in the Bakken in 2011 to about 240 million cubic feet per day and with the completion of this project have nearly doubled that capacity again this year.
This puts our total pipeline capacity to over 1 billion cubic feet a day on a peak day basis that’s a milestone we are excited to have achieved.
The potential exists for additional pipeline needs with proposed expansions at the Garden Creek II and other gas plants in the Bakken.
Our pipeline’s proximity to rapid expanding energy development area serves as an excellent catalyst for future growth opportunities.
Next our E&amp;P Group we had earnings of $13.1 million and excluded the non-cash charge realized natural gas prices were down 20% and realized oil prices were down 5%.
A higher Bakken differential which includes transportation charges averaged approximately $12 to $13 throughout the third quarter that effected our oil price realization.
Forecasts indicate a significant improvement in these pricing spreads for the fourth quarter.
October estimate was averaged around $4 again a significant improvement.
19% higher oil production for the quarter partial offset the lower prices.
However we did have some delays in our drilling and completion activity and we did not bring online all the wells we had planned this is primarily a timing issue and a number of good wells were brought on production late in September and during October.
As a result of these new wells we did reach a new weekly oil production record in October averaging approximately 13 500 barrels of oil a day.
This is up from the average of 12 200 barrels of oil a day in the third quarter.
We still expect to meet our full year oil production projection increase of 25% to 30%.
On the natural gas side it’s important to understand that we have strategically and voluntarily curtailed natural gas production in a sustained low price environment.
This is driving our natural gas production decline.
The curtailment focused on dry gas wells that were providing minimum margin in lower natural gas price environments.
We plan to bring these wells back on production rather quickly when natural gas prices recover to an economic level.
Now I want to give you an update on our key growth areas first the Bakken where we have five rigs drilling.
Oil production in the Bakken was up a substantial 46% over last year.
We have a new production record of more than 7 000 net barrels per day and are achieving that at a quite consistent level now.
In Mountrail County we have seen continued strong wells in this development phase acreage.
The Amundson 23-14H well had a 24 hour IP rate of 1 353 barrels of oil and 582 MCF of natural gas.
The Luke 19-20-29H [IPed] at 968 barrels and 676 Mcf.
We have identified approximately 40 remaining middle Bakken wells in the area and we’re evaluating our Three Forks potential following the lead of other operators which would be incremental to these numbers.
In Stark County we continue to see encouraging results and gross production recently set a record of about 2 000 barrels a day.
We have approximately 51 000 net acres here and through our appraisal program and beginning stages of development we’ve identified a sweet spot area we think will be highly productive.
We recently completed a couple strong wells the Pavlish 19-20H came on line at 1 097 barrels of oil in 657 Mcf of natural gas.
The Kudrna 5-8H had a 24-hour IP rate of 1 151 barrels and 571 Mcf.
We have approximately 40 future drilling sites identified in this area.
In Richland County we’re initially targeting the Three Forks.
What we are seeing now from our own data and from other produces in the area there looks to be significant upside potential in the Upper Bakken Shale on this acreage.
While initial rates are not as high as some of our other Middle Bakken and Three Forks wells it appears that the decline rates are shallower and can provide good economic returns.
We still have a couple more wells planned for the Richland County this year so stay tuned for further results as we continue to focus on cracking the code there.
Now moving on to the Paradox basin to put that simply the Paradox basin is a potential game changer for us.
As we mentioned before we kick things off in this play with a great well that was a Cane Creek unit number 26-2H well.
Then our next two wells were completed open hole and did not turn out so well so we’ve returned to [cast] hole completions.
We recently put the Cane Creek unit 12-1H well on production and it has been consistently producing approximately 1 500 barrels of oil a day over the past three weeks.
It has a flowing pressure above 2 800 PSI.
We have 50 to 75 future locations with gross EURs estimated up to 1 million barrels and perhaps beyond.
We have concluded our appraisal program this year for the Heath Shale play in Montana where we have 90 000 net acres.
We’ve drilled five wells saw encouraging results in four of the five wells but production issues are clouding the decision to move forward with additional drilling.
These wells are being worked on by our production team.
In Texas we continue to target areas with potential for higher liquids.
In Central Texas we have drilled four wells and are assessing the development potential in this stack pay field.
Potential ranges from rich gas to oil and includes zones in the Glenn Rose to the Buddha as well as in the Woodbine zones.
Finally in Nebraska we have drilled two vertical wells and are performing selective zone testing to set up our first horizontal well planned for 2013.
So in summary our E&amp;P financial results were lower than expectations driven primarily by lower realized product prices and delays on bringing on some new oil production.
Our October volumes give us confidence that we remain on track with this E&amp;P growth strategy.
Now with that I’ll return to a consolidated discussion.
Overall we’re very pleased with what our group of diversified companies has accomplished so far this year and really what’s in store for the future.
The construction group is on pace for a solid year for both materials and services and we see positive indicators for the momentum to continue.
We anticipate seeing continued customer and load growth particularly in the Bakken at our utility and we have substantial growth projects that are in the works in this business unit.
Our pipeline has and will focus on expanding its system of midstream and pipeline transmission assets through the growth projects and through partnering opportunities.
Our E&amp;P business has strong recent well results and improved recent oil pricing differentials in the Bakken along with significant drilling inventory to provide upside opportunities.
MDU is positioned for strategic growth we’re financially strong with good cash flow and access to capital.
Our 75-year dividend paying history reflects our commitment to creating shareholder value.
We owned valuable assets that are becoming increasingly more valuable.
The services and products we provide are essential must haves and we have been in these businesses for many years and are focused on operating efficiently.
Thank you for your interest in MDU resources and for your time today and look forward to speaking again with you soon.
We’ll open the lines up now operator for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Chris Ellinghaus with Williams Capital.
Can you give us any idea how much you’re curtailing intentionally on gas production? Yeah Chris this is Kent.
We’ve got roughly 20 million to 25 million a day that we’ve shut in and we focused on our dry gas fields Baker Bowdoin in the [coalbed].
Okay.
And can you give us a little bit color – I am sorry go ahead.
Go ahead Chris.
The construction businesses looked much better this quarter can you give us a little more color on what you’re seeing out there?  Well it’s the nice thing that we see this quarter is we see both the top line and the bottom line growing and that’s always a good sign to get growth in the revenue side and more importantly take us a 6% growth but more importantly increase your earnings by 36%.
And then the other thing that we disclose as you’re starting to see an uptick in the private work and obviously that scenario where particularly in the material side of the business it’s really hampered our ability to produce their earnings that we’d like.
So we’re – I think we’re in a good position I mean the interest that we’ve always talked about is our workforce in our people we’ve had 8 000 plus workforce out there in the last three months that have really produced I think our customers were happy with our work we continue to try to improve our reputation in our brand and so we’re cautiously optimistic going into next year.
Okay.
And what’s going on in the private side can you give us a little color there it seems like maybe things have turned a corner?  Yeah there is – it’s a all over the map I mean obviously that we’re starting to see some residential work come up in some small pockets.
The other thing we’re trying to do if you look at some niche work tailings and gold mines and areas where we think we can move our margins a little better.
And so it’s a combination of the private work and also we’ve been very happy on the construction services side our Equipment Division and our supply business continues to grow.
So it’s there is signs I mean I think there is a lot of money setting out the sidelines and have been for two or three years and the thing about construction construction is built on one word and the word is confidence.
And if the confidence starts to comeback in the marketplace with our cost structure and the 8 000 people that we’re working for us right now we’re in a very good position.
Okay.
And one more thing can you give us some sense of what your return expectations are for midstream asset investments? Chris this is Steve Bietz from a return perspective it really goes project by project I think you’ve got to look at the risk associated with each of those projects and goes to some of the contractual terms that you have underlying those certainly we would look at a regulated type of return is a floor and can move up from there.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys appreciate it.
Thanks Chris.
Your next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Hello good morning Paul.
Sorry if construction takes off what your degree of confidence that you can hold the SG&amp;A line or is that need to expand to meet the new business?  Well Paul if you know anything about me I’ve always had a pretty good hand on my cost and my overhead and so to tell you that we’re going to move those cost for any uptick actually I think we have some slack in our ability to increase sales without increasing SG&amp;A I think we’re right now probably in pretty good position on our SG&amp;A but I think we can have nice uptick without driving those costs because we are very focused company on cost and performance and one of the things we talk about we talk in our business with Kennish as I mentioned to you guys in Denver we’re interested and picking up that penny.
So we’re looking at areas that we’re waking manage our cost and deliver good efficiencies and good productivity so I think we can manage that SG&amp;A will watch it very closely we’ve got people that look at that daily via dashboards that we monitor and we’re really pay attention to our costs because I believe if you don’t know your cost you can’t be in business.
As we move to more private component of the business mix what do you see the opportunities from margin expansion?  Well (Inaudible) in a pudding and let us deliver some results and then I will be comfortable talking to you about it but my bottom line that if that opportunity comes and we see some continuing improvement in that private sector I like our players I like our people I like our performance those opportunities out there we’re going to execute on them and I think the shareholder will benefit.
And pockets in Bakken what the growth looks like at construction?  Well the Bakken is a big part of MDU when you look at everything that we offer out there it’s a broad range of services but we see pockets in other parts of the country starting to develop and come back I mean we’re starting that such a low thresholds that any uptick is going to be positive just because of if you’ve looked at our revenues where they were in our earnings back to 2008 versus where they’re at today we’re basically about half where we were.
So we think I’m -- that we have the opportunity with any type of improvement in the economy to benefit from that but it’s not just the Bakken but Bakken is a very important part of that it’s certainly helped our material side of the business but we think there is other pockets that with any confidence coming back and is a private sector I think we’re in good position.
Is there growth excluding Bakken?  Yes I mean there are growth in our private work was not just Bakken driven we had to have other areas that we show some improvements again very good growth if you look at our Construction Services Group we almost doubled our earnings 100% increase I mean those are positive signs that something good as happening out there.
Thank you very much.
This marks the last call for question.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern today through to 11:59 p.m.
Eastern on November 15th.
The conference ID number for the replay is 34753792.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 34753792.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you.
We expect to be providing our assumptions for 2013 at our year-end report that occurs in early February we certainly appreciate all of your participation on the call today we look forward to have an opportunity to speak with you soon.
So thank you again for your interest in MDU Resources.
This concludes today’s MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christy and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group 2012 year end and 2013 Guidance Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
This call will be available for replay beginning at 2 pm Eastern Time today through 11.59 pm Eastern Time on February 19th.
The conference ID number for the replay is 85150168.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 85150168.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
Before I turn the presentation over to Dave Goodin our President and Chief Executive Officer I'd like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you'd like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to our conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the Company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Dave Goodin the new President and CEO of MDU Resources effective January 4th followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are; Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; John Harp CEO of Knife River Corporation and MDU Construction Services; Frank Morehouse President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Kent Wells President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production; Bill Schneider Executive Vice President of Bakken Development and MDU Resources; and Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I’ll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks Dave.
Thank you Doran and good morning.
Thank you for your interest in MDU Resources and for taking the time today to join us and discuss our results for 2012 along with our 2013 outlook.
It is both the privilege and honor for me to be speaking with you today of course as I am new to this role but I am not new to this company.
I have had the opportunity to meet and talk with number of you over my 30 years with the company and certainly I’ll look forward to our continued dialogue.
As I reflect in 2012 it was a year field with many achievements.
Our construction businesses grew combined earnings by 47% with higher revenues and margin levels.
They are well positioned for 2013 entering the year with higher backlog levels and strengthening across many of our local markets.
The E&amp;P business was able to largely mitigate the effects of lower natural gas prices by continuing to execute their strategy to grow liquids production and reserves.
In the fourth quarter alone our oil production was 59% higher than the fourth quarter in 2011 and 36% higher for the full year.
Our electric utility grew its earnings year-over-year driven by strong customer and sales growth largely in North Dakota where electric customer accounts grew by 9% in the Bakken region and we are on back for an ambitious capital program that will significantly grow rate base over the next five years.
Our natural gas and distribution earnings were affected by warmer weather in 2012 when we compared it with 2011; however our markets continued to grow near and long term investment opportunities do exist to invest and expand and for 2013 whereon to a great start with favorable weather thus far in January.
And we’re also pleased that our pipeline and energy services businesses their ability to execute its strategy by diversifying and complementing what was really our historic strategy of focusing and dry natural gas gathering transporting and storage with expansion into our liquid base opportunities right in our backyard.
Our midyear acquisition of a 50% interest in the Pronghorn natural gas processing facility is performing very well and positions us for a strong 2013 in this business.
We are also excited about the progress we are making on our diesel topping plant refinery in Western North Dakota as well.
This project has really great potential for all of our investors.
2012 also had its share of challenges in addition to that warmer weather and lower natural gas prices we continue to evaluate the initial results of our exploration drilling program in certain areas.
We will be focused on deploying capital in 2013 into a lower risk higher return development plays while we continue our evaluation and appraisal process of our 2012 expletory efforts.
Overall for 2012 our adjusted earnings were 216.8 million or $1.15 per share.
This compared to adjusted earnings of 225.2 million a $1.19 per share a year ago.
We are really not satisfied with our results.
As I look forward I have confidence on our team and I believe the businesses and industries we operate in are key industries for growth of our economy as well as our nation.
I believe that we have many opportunities to work across our business lines where collectively we can add more value for the investor and this is a primary focus of mine.
Taking the topping plan for example where we all businesses will benefit and our investors are rewarded with accretive earnings per share growth.
We will focus on investing in projects that incrementally add both earnings and cash flows while maintaining our commitment to a strong balance sheet.
We believe we can accomplish this growth beginning in 2013 and I’ll cover our 2013 expectations in just a moment.
Moving on to individual business segments results our construction group had combined earnings for last year of 70.8 million up from 48 million in 2011.
The construction serviced earnings increase reflects record earnings at our inside electric businesses in Oregon and our specialty equipment manufacturing and rental business as well.
Our construction materials group saw an increase in the private construction market and a strengthening of markets in the intermountain and north central regions as well as higher ready-mix concrete and asphalt margins as well as volumes.
National indicators such as 37% higher housing start levels and the strongest builder confidence levels in seven years suggest that we should continue to see construction markets improve.
Entering 2013 backlogs have on a combined basis totaled 731 million 39 million higher than a year ago.
Private work now represents 14% of our total backlog up 8% from a year ago.
We're also pleased Congress has passed a two year transportation bill.
That bill provides roughly $40 billion in highway funding per year and good states and a better position to bid up larger road projects.
There are number of projects and areas we're excited about for our construction businesses for one our operations in North Dakota where we currently have $46 million in work backlog with nearly half of that being private work.
And the future while looks very bright North Dakota our governor (inaudible) his budget calls for more than $2.7 billion to be spent on state roads and infrastructure during that coming (inaudible).
This funding level is increasing by over a billion over our current level just within the state of North Dakota alone.
Our construction group has adapted well to a changing market focusing on improved margins.
We intend to maintain the lower cost structure we've worked hard to achieve during the recession and are confident there is room for earnings growth with minimal incremental cost.
Now moving on to our EMP group adjusted earnings for 2012 were $69.6 million compared to earnings of $80.3 million in 2011.
We were impacted by realized natural gas prices that were down 25% for the last year and as a result we shifted our focus towards higher returns related to oil production.
We prudently reduced our capital investment into natural gas and made certain voluntary curtailments and the divestments resulting in a 27% reduction of natural gas production.
Although we have low cost natural gas properties that can positively cash flow even in today's price environment we feel it's better for our investors if we focused on oil for now and produced these valuable natural gas reserves in the future when the potential returns are higher.
We are very pleased to report that the increased oil production of 59% in the fourth quarter compared to a year ago which actually accounted to 40% of total production for the quarter is up from 26% last year.
For the year oil production was up 36% over 2011 and at the same time we're able to replace 267% of our total oil production last year alone.
Our oil base efforts have generated momentum as we enter 2013.
The higher production levels help drive 4th quarter adjusted earnings at our E&amp;P unit of 25.5 million the highest levels of quarterly earnings for this group since 2009.
As we described in our press release recent wells indicate that the Bakken continues to perform very well for us.
This coming year we plan to invest approximately 200 million of CapEx to develop our high return acreage in the Bakken.
We also intend to drill with three to five rigs across our acreage throughout the year.
Turning to the Paradox where we hold approximately 83 000 net acres we have an option to lease another 20 000 net acres.
We've seen some encouraging results throughout the year as we work through our six well appraisal program.
We are continuing to proceed systematically in this play with 70 million of capital investment plan for 2013.
As the play is fully understood the opportunity to ramp up to full scale development could increase what we invest this coming year.
We continue to believe that the potential for the Paradox basin is very significant for us.
Turning to Texas we continue to target areas with a potential for higher liquids content.
We've allocated approximately 40 million for this area for this year and anticipate a one rig program.
Through our appraisal program in the Niobrara Central Texas and the Heath shale areas we deferred further development as these investments do not compete economically with other projects that we're presently pursuing.
However we will continue to study these plays and monitor other producer activity in these areas as well.
In total we plan to invest approximately 400 million in our E&amp;P business in 2013.
With the focus being on high return growth projects in the Bakken the Paradox as well as Texas.
We are projecting a 25-30% increase in oil production year over year.
Now moving on to our utility business.
Our utility had a solid year reporting earnings of 60 million compared to last year's record earnings of 67.6 million.
The electric side of the business increased earnings by 1.4 million and had an outstanding year as a result of 4% overall increase in electric sales.
Customer and loan growth continues to be led by the Bakken region which added approximately 3 500 electric customers during the year in addition to about 3300 natural gas customers in the Bakken region alone.
To meet the demands of the growing customer base in that region we plan to invest approximately $70 million in 2013.
This planned investment is part overall record capital expenditure budget for the year of $252 million and be approximately $1 billion we plan to invest in this business over the coming five years.
That would equate to a rate based growth of approximately 6% per year on average.
We are moving forward on a couple of large projects we touched on in the past but just to remind everybody one is an 88 megawatt simple cycle natural gas turbine located on property adjacent to our Heskett generating station near Mandan North Dakota.
Total project costs for this generating facility are estimated to be $86 million with an in-service date in late 2014.
And we have also got a $125 million Big Stone environmental upgrade with plans to complete that by 2015.
Our natural gas distribution business earnings were lower by 9 million last year compared to 2011.
This decrease was largely a result of lower natural gas retail sales volumes primarily due to our mild weather that we’d experienced.
In fact temperatures for last year averaged 16% warmer for the MDU service territory and Great Plains 14% warmer at our Intermountain Company in Idaho and 6% warmer in the Cascade area of Washington and Oregon.
We have natural gas rate cases pending in Montana and South Dakota totaling $5 million of annual rate relief.
In Montana we are requesting $3.5 million annually or approximately 5.9% above our current rates.
Our hearing has been scheduled for May 1<sup>st</sup> with the Montana PSC.
Turning to South Dakota we've applied for an increase of $1.5 million annually or approximately 3.3% above our current rates.
Our utility is a solid contributor to our corporation.
Really they formed the roots of the company back in 1924.
We are excited about its future considering its substantial organic growth opportunities.
Now turning to our pipeline and energy service operations earnings for 2012 were 26.6 million compared to earnings of 23.1 million a year ago.
Results for the year did include a $15 million after tax benefit related to an arbitration charge reversal.
This group is making substantial progress in its strategic shift towards diversifying our midstream energy business by expanding into more liquids based activities.
In mid-2012 we purchased a 50% interest in a natural gas processing plant and related facilities in the Bakken area.
The 2012 portion of our investment was approximately 100 million and we expect a full year of accretive earnings and benefits from these facilities in 2013.
We have made substantial progress in conjunction with Calumet Refining on the potential building of a diesel topping plant here in North Dakota.
This facility would process Bakken crude and market the diesel within the Bakken region.
The permitting process is progressing and the public comment period on the air quality permit concluded just yesterday.
The North Dakota public service commission has signed a certificate of public convenience and public necessity approving our utility as the electric provider on the purposed plant.
The land has been purchased near Dickinson North Dakota for the plant site and total project costs are estimated to be in $280 million to $300 million price range with a projected in-service date of late 2014.
We also continued to expand our transmission assets throughout the year.
We completed the takeaway pipeline serving a new natural gas processing facility and we again nearly doubled our takeaway capacity from the Bakken in 2012 compared to the prior year and grew system wide capacity to more than 1 Bcf per day.
We are confident our strategy of expanding our regulated transmission assets and midstream presence in key energy plays like the Bakken will yield excellent long term results for this group.
So in summary 2012 had many achievements along with several challenges but overall we believe that we exit 2012 as a stronger company than when the year started and that we are well positioned to grow as we go into 2013.
Our utility is positioned to investment and grow in its rate base.
Our pipeline business is reinventing itself by expanding into liquid based midstream opportunities that will grow both earnings and cash flows here in 2013.
Our E&amp;P business is successfully executing its strategy of focusing on more higher return liquids opportunities with growth in oil production and reserves in 2012 and we see that continuing here into 2013.
Our construction companies are well positioned with higher backlogs and a very competitive cost structure to build on the earnings momentum that we’ve seen for these businesses coming out of 2012.
Coupled with a competitive dividend that we recently increased for the 22nd consecutive year we believe that the earnings generated by our capital program expected to be $807 million in 2013 and $3.8 billion over the next five years will deliver a substantial value to our shareholders.
Accordingly building up our 2012 adjusted earnings results of $15 per share we are establishing our 2013 guidance in the range of a $1.20 to a $1.35 per common share.
We are very excited about the future of MDU Resources.
And operator with that please open the line for any questions that may be at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Sam Arnold (ph) (inaudible).
Couple of questions for you.
I guess there’s been talk about potentially deconsolidated and I think you guys addressed that on the call but the one thing that I was thinking about is do you get much of tax benefit for the IDRs by having the E&amp;P business kind of merged with the construction and the utility?  This is Dave.
I’m going to turn to our Chief Accounting Officer for that question.
Yes we do realize the benefit in terms of the immediate deductibility on intangible drilling cost if that’s what you’re asking?  Yes.
Yes.
We do.
And then the follow up I had is you gave some decent some good well results in the Bakken and I wondering could you disclose little bit more were those Mountrail and do you guys have any further updates on some other stuff round on Elm Coulee and maybe Pronghorn? I’ll now turn this over to Kent in just a bit but he's going to touch on our five rig program that we currently have going on in the Bakken.
We talked about that in the comments three rigs are in Mountrail County; two are in Stark County but Kent has the details of those.
The well results that you were referred to most of the time are Mountrail County one is in Stark County and we didn't have any results from Richland County which is what you refer to near Elm Coulee because we deferred some completions there.
So I think with what’s going on in the Bakken and that just elaborate little bit the biggest game changer for us is what we've able to do the lower our well costs there and at the beginning of the year we were drilling wells and I'm talking about 1280 lateral in that $8.5 million to $9 million range.
We're now down to $7.5 million and we see ways to get down to $7 million.
So that's starting to open up some new possibilities for us.
So on Mountrail County; we've been mainly drilling middle Bakken wells.
I would have liked to have been able to talk to you about our Three Forks well but with the cold weather deferred and we will just start flowing to back later this week but that could open up a new opportunity for us in Mountrail County.
Then Stark County there is the one well we did complete in the fourth quarter there which had good rates.
As we continue to bring down those well costs that allows us to expand the area.
And then at Richland County we have two challenges and the reason we deferred any completions and we're not drilling there right now; one because we're actually drilling in the shale we've only been able to drill 640s and we need to learn how to drill 1280s.
So we've got this steady going on about wellbore stability.
And then also when we took the completion techniques from the benches in Mountrail and Stark County didn’t work as effective in the shale and so we're looking at that and we expect that once we finish those studies we'll recomplete or we'll complete the two wells that we’ve drilled and haven’t completed and then probably look to drill a couple more wells there before year end.
So that sort of gives you the whole gist of the activity but we are getting the good rates in Mountrail Stark County and the ability to lower our cost structure like we've done is really making a difference.
We're now rig spud release we just did one week and a half ago and it came in at 16.5 days.
That's pretty impressive.
Yes and so that one was around the Pronghorn area is that the later land or whatever the one on 640.
And you're looking on the release I assume.
Yes on page 8 you have a list of all It's the Bauer well.
Your next question comes from the line of Timm Schneider with Citi Group.
Hey guys just a quick follow up on the Richland county well.
When do you think that study will be complete and how many wells do you think you'll drill in '13?   It's Kent.
It'll be about probably two to three more months because we want to do both the wellbore stability and the completion before we proceed.
Then we would look to complete the two wells we're having in story.
So that could be sometime late second quarter third quarter and then depending on what we see there we'll start drilling.
We have in our plan to drill two more wells that could be more or could be less depending upon what we see on the recompletions and what we've learned on our wellbore stability study.
Are you guys looking to kind of actively add acreage to Richland County projection or is that kind of where you're happy with what you have right now and more focus is kind of on Mountrail and Stark.
Well we really like the acreage we have in Richland County and it’s 60 000 acres.
It's well blocked up.
If we can make this work we can really efficient with pad drilling there.
So I don't think we need to add any more acreage there so I'll just leave it at that.
I noticed you guys drilled a 640 in Mountrail County I think that was the last one to Flail and was that a down spacing test or why was that drilled on 640.
No actually there is still some down spacing to consider out there Timm you make a good point.
But that well was actually just because a 640 had been drilled previously that was the only way we could get to those reserves was a 640.
So it was more by necessity rather than choice.
Got it and on the natural gas production guidance for next year at 15% to 25% decline does that assume any curtailments at all? Is there a legacy kind of decline rate?  What we've assumed in there is that we will not turn on back any of the Baker the Delain (ph) and coal bed production that we've already shut in and we shut it in in May of last year.
So it's anticipated they'll be shut; now we may that back on depending upon what prices do.
Got it.
If you have a can you break out the 200 million of CapEx kind of by county in the Bakken for next year for '13 I should say.
We'll probably spend I don't have the numbers in front of me here Timm but we'll probably spend half maybe in Mountrail County and with the exception of maybe $20 million in Richland County the rest would be in Stark County.
Okay got it.
Just kind of moving on to the Paradox really quick.
In the release it’s kind of was proceed systematically once we get a better understanding of the play and can you just give us an update on what you mean by that and what kind of the average IP rates were there.
I think you have drilled six wells so far is that right?  Yes you are right.
So let me start with our 12-1 well that we talked about last time.
We ramped it up to 1 500 barrels a day.
Today it is still producing 1500 barrels a day and flowing at over 2200 PSI.
I think it’s going to be very interesting to see after that well has been on production for six months.
So we have been producing in a week’s time it will be producing four months at 1500 barrels a day each and every day.
And I think as we compare it to the best wells drilled anywhere in the U.S.
onshore that were drilled in 2012 it will be interesting to see where that stacks up because very few wells sort of hold on to that kind of rate.
Even if they start at 5000 barrels a day they quickly drop down below this number.
So we have established the potential on the Paradox as really impressive.
Our issue is our ability to repeat that.
This is a very complex reservoir it’s complex to drill I think we have resolved the drilling issues.
What we don’t know is if we don’t quite understand the reservoir or our completion techniques aren’t quite right.
We don’t frac these wells.
All we do is perforate them.
So I think we just see enormous potential here but we haven’t unlocked it.
So the systematic piece that we’re talking about is we’ve taken a core of which we have done a bunch of analysis.
We have learned some things from that.
We are doing some pressure trenching analysis work to understand drainage areas and what we don’t want to do is get a number of rigs going and get ahead of ourselves.
So until we fully understand the play we are going to continue to go at one rig.
But once we sort of feel we really understand it can repeat the high rates then we will look to be much more aggressive in our development.
We have shadowed another seismic.
We now have most of our acreage under 3D seismic.
We only had about half of it up until a few weeks ago.
So we will analyze that and that will give us an opportunity to further expand.
And then you remember this Timm probably from the analyst presentation there is a number of our poll zones that once we fully understand the Cane Creek there’s actually a total of 30 additional classics above it.
We’ve focused on 10 we’re going prioritize on four.
The potential here is just enormous.
And what is the current production in the Bakken and Paradox if you have those numbers? I think on a net basis the Bakken’s around 7000 barrels a day and the Paradox is around 1600 or 1700 barrels a day.
Your next question comes from a line of Chris Ellinghaus with Williams Capital.
Can you guys give us a little more color on what’s been going on in construction and what the backlog looks like? Yeah I will turn that over to John Harp.
Our backlog is up both entities are up year-over-year and Chris if were to look at the construction groups and kind of look in back the last couple of years it looks like 2010 was really the bottom of the market both CSG and Knife River started to move their number up year-over-year and have done that done for the last three years.
So if you think about that I like that trend.
Obviously revenues grew 8% - 9% 8% at Knife 9% at CSG.
We grew earnings at Knife River by about 19% and CSG just kind of had an exceptionally and we grew that by 77% and there is some indicators also in the private side particularly for the Knife River group we’re starting to see those numbers move up from 8% 14% and in Dave’s comments today he talked about the confidence in the homebuilders and we’re starting to see a little activity there and I think that’s gangbuster spud.
You look at our cost structure; you look at how competitive we are in these markets and back to our people which I always advocated that we have the best people in the industry.
I like our chances.
On the pipeline side it sounds like you made a tremendous amount of progress on the diesel topping plant.
Have you got any aspirations beyond that project? Chris this is Steve Bietz.
Certainly we continue to look for other opportunities.
We have had some discussion with our partners there of potential not expansions but kind of other projects that could come off of that and we are looking to that would be opportunistic as we look at those things.
Okay.
And just back on the diesel topping plant.
As far as the Bakken and the expansion and the diesel you said what sort of market share might that plant have and what additional kind of infrastructure assets do you foresee needing it in North Dakota? If you look at the diesel demand in the state we’re probably somewhere in the 45 000 to 50 000 barrels per day.
It’s about 22 000 barrels produced in the state of North Dakota at the refinery here in Mandan.
So you can see that the state itself is a pretty large importer of diesel.
With the continued oil development and projections take that 45 000 to 50 000 barrel a day usage up closer to 70 000 over the upcoming years and if you look at our plant we’re talking probably 7 000 to 8 000 barrels of diesel being brought onto the market.
So I guess from market prospective it’s not a huge amount of additional diesel within the state given the growth that’s anticipated.
Okay.
So there is definitely some additional room for assets there? Yes.
(Operator Instructions).
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I thought I missed this with the write downs in the E&amp;P and what have you how should we think about the ongoing impact on DD&amp;A in this year and next?  Paul this is Kent.
DD&amp;A rates are going to be in the $17 to $18 range for 2013.
Okay.
And then with respect to the construction property sales in 2012 I know they were less but could you give us a feeling as to what the total amount was? Actually our sales were $4 million more in 2011 than they were in 2012.
And what’s the total number for 2012? About 2 million.
And then with respect to that of the topping plant you mentioned I think $280 million to $300 million of CapEx.
How should we think about the return on that the financing of that I guess? You mentioned on one hand I think the project itself was attractive but you also had sort of synergistic benefits with the other businesses and just wondering if you could without too much detail but just sort of a general sense as to sort of what we're looking at there in terms of the return potential what have you.
Yes Paul.
I'll start and then Steve Bietz will maybe get into few more of the details but when you think about this project it really will touch all of our business units which is really I think leveraging our talents where he talked about the public convenience and the necessity for electric business utility to service facility it's going to be about a 5 megawatt load about 1% load growth rate there.
You think from a natural gas providing input for the plant we've got the pipeline in its proximity.
So we’ve got the pipeline associated with that.
Mr.
Harp's business group both at the construction materials and construction services we've got civil work foundations certainly electrical expertise.
So they can kind of provide a variety of services there as well and certainly the raw product could be produced from fidelity with our Stark County acreage that we’ve got there as well.
So it really touches on all parts of our business unit.
Steve can talk about some of the details relative to the plant itself but I'll turn it over to Steve.
I guess Paul from the project itself either way $280 million to $300 million will be invested.
From a return perspective certainly we view this as a high return type project we’ve not shared specific results but certainly much higher potential returns much higher returns than what we’ve experienced at the pipeline kind of commensurate with the project.
We're hopeful that we can find ways that even though the project looks very positive that they’d even make it look better as we go over here and kind of driving down some of the capital costs and so forth.
Okay I mean I realize that you guys feel a little bit tense about qualifying but I'm just sort of curious I can't help but be really curious.
When we're thinking about it it sounds like the projects itself look very attractive on its own but then there are these adders.
Can you give us some flavors to how much the adders being the rest of the business synergy just sort of wondering what how much sort of percentage wise let’s just make up 12% and then on top of that what percentage would that bring it up to sort of thing.
Do you find any just relative order of magnitude with the synergy that you guys are talking about do you guys look at it like that at all.
Do you follow what I’m asking?  I think I know what you're asking Paul and I think at this point we're going to look focus on the project itself and it's a standalone project in and of itself on its own merits and that's the midstream opportunity in front of it.
The purpose in talking about it on a broader sense are the other skills and abilities that we bring as a corporation particularly in our own backyard to kind of leverage off whether our construction talents our electric distribution talents our pipeline talents certainly the lot of crude product those are all what we view as adders to it and we would expect I'll leave it at normal margins associated with those it'll be under tariffed rates for instance on the electric.
There's not anything unique there it's a tariffed rate in North Dakota.
So it would be expected at our normal margins provided to the plant.
So sort of I mean this is clearly icing on the cake and it sounds like a considerable amount of icing but how much is it depends I guess on the type of business I guess.
Is there any I mean I understand that A.
Do I understand that correctly and this is finally through to the follow up on that considering where you are in the Bakken and all this other stuff and your business disciplines in your business do you see other opportunities like this? Sort of back to Chris's question anything else we might think about here that could happen here like this or is this all unique.
Well I talked earlier about our business development teams and if you just look back in the last six months or 12 months we closed the Pronghorn facility with Steve and his group on the midstream thing.
That was just seven months ago that we closed that.
In fact we're adding compression and some fractionation for this coming year to increase our stream on the inlet side and we'll end up ramping that up.
We've got the topping facility right here and clearly we've got business teams looking at opportunities.
we're not at a point to be talking about any specifics here today but clearly we can bring a variety of skills and business acumen right in our own back yard and that's really the key for us here.
Your next question comes from the line of Rosemarie Tableaux with Tableaux Associates.
I have a question with regard to the write off of the gas properties.
At the current price of natural gas and people are talking variously about maybe it will increase maybe it won’t but it looks like there is there continues to be more drilling.
But is there a lot of shut in capacity along the lines there so won’t be more increases I’m wondering about the rest of further write downs on the properties?  This is Kent.
Of course what we have to remember is on the impairment we used the previous 12 months price not the future price which is the proper accounting treatment but very confusing and the price was considerably lower in the trailing…..
Was it 280 was that the price that was used?  Yes I think exactly 275.
And then if you could look at the futures price for the rest of this year more or like 350 and next year is more or like $4.
So it’s a slightly different environment.
We do have some gas shut in that we have chosen to shut in.
We didn’t want to produce it when the gas price was $2 and we actually feel very good about that decision.
Of course now it gets tougher to make when do you turn it back on? Whether other companies had done the same I can't speak to that.
So I don’t know if there is other volume shut in or not but we certainly chose to and we chose to in our coal bed property just because there are higher costs and it didn’t make sense for us.
In our Baker and Bedouin(ph).
We actually have low lifting cost there but just due to transportation cost and other things our net backs weren’t sufficient and so we get quite an uplift as the price comes up.
So we would anticipate turning that on hopefully sometime this year if gas prices continue to increase.
But we don’t have that in our plan yet.
Okay and then I have another question if I may and I have been wondering and kind of asking as I go to all the meetings about the use of natural gas as a fuel for the trucks.
Yes Rosemary I will turn that over to Frank Morehouse.
The Utility once for a time ran a fleet on compressed natural gas actually.
Yes we find that there is potential opportunity a little bit of a chicken and the egg effect here.
We don’t see many of the manufacturers in Detroit turning vehicles that are equipped to utilize either CNG or LNG.
The liquefied natural gas appears to be perhaps a little more relevant for the long haul and over the road.
We do have a group within the utility investigating the potential for natural gas as a transportation fuel as well as potentially a fuel in the oil field for the drilling rigs and things of that nature.
So we definitely have an interest in it we’re working closely with our elected officials.
Certain jurisdictions out there have decided that they’d like offer some tax credits and things like that.
The state of Oregon is looking at it very seriously.
So we do think there is potential.
I think we’re probably out three to five years before we see it fully developed.
Because this seems to be made to order for 18 wheelers just making the trip back and forth to the rails and I know that Cummins engine for sample does have engines that are using compressed natural gas but I think that they are adding it onto the regular engine so that you can switch it kind of with your fuel and that we reduces the amount that they can carry because they do have to make room for two engines but I would think that that would be particularly cheap since the natural gas is right there although I don’t know whether you have processing plants to clean up the gas to get it ready to be compressed.
That is the challenge that we faced especially right here in North Dakota.
The gas stream here in North Dakota has fairly high content of ethane and the ethane has created some detonation difficulties when we’re try to utilize that as compressed natural gas as a transportation fuel.
We do look to LNG as a very near viable option.
Again some of that is infrastructure there are not any liquefied natural gas liquefaction facilities here in North Dakota that time and one of those are the fairly costly facility.
The Intermountain Gas Company actually does have LNG plant and has offloading capability there.
The difficulty portion of that is the transportation cost to get from Nampa Idaho out to say the Williston area or Bakken area would be somewhat prohibitive to transport LNG that far.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
What percent of your construction services backlog is private? A vast majority of its private.
We do hardly any federal work.
REAs would be an example on our outside but I’d say a large majority of it is private.
Very little of our work is public.
And as a construction materials where it is private as a percentage of total work peak? Well the peak of Knife River was 2006 and the private work in 2006 was 40%.
40 four zero? 40% and as we mentioned earlier we finished the year at 18% this year.
So you can see we got some room to grow but we think it’s going in the right trend.
And you currently have a $406 million of backlog at materials.
How much of that will be completed within the year? Let’s say a 30% to 40%.
Well 30 to 40 okay.
So we should start to see a private really start sell here you think.
\ Well I mean the areas where we’re seeing the private pickup is particularly in North Dakota with the development in the Bakken and a lot of residential and private work in those areas.
And we’re starting to see other pockets like we mentioned in the release of the housing confidence and the housing starts we’re starting with up.
So we’re starting to see other pockets of some of the market areas - in the Intermountain area we’re starting to see some pick up but we’re coming out of that.
I said 18% a minute.
That’s where we are at the third quarter.
We were actually at 14% as we finished the year.
And then beginning in the call one of the topics discussed was kind of some disappointment around the exploration.
Is that just around the sealing test right now? This is Kent Paul.
No our disappointment was there was a number of different plays we chose to evaluate last year and they didn’t turn out to be the economic successes that we hope for.
So that was really our disappointment until we’ve worked very hard at our explorations processes we’ve made some adjustments and we’re approaching what we do on exploration basis going forward very differently.
And you have Niobrara where else is kind of disappointing?  Niobrara Central Texas in particular the heat the jury is still out because we are making profitable production out there but it’s not the play we wanted it to be and so we’re still doing some work there.
The Niobrara like I say there is another play called Cordell that others are playing and that play might come back to us yet but right now we don’t have anything to pursue from a development perspective there.
But you've gotten all your money back out of the Niobrara correct.
Well I think what you're referring is the transaction we actually did where we sold a 25% interest and I'll just say that we’re very pleased with the deal we made at that point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Timm Schneider with Citigroup.
Its couple of follow-ups.
In the Paradox Kent what are your drilling and completion costs running out right now? Yes so if we're drilling a first well out there in exploratory its about $8 million and then follow on development wells are more in $5.5 million to $6 million range and the big difference in the cost is what we do for exploration and we ended up drilling a pilot hole first and when we get to the development wells we can drill more like we drill them in the Bakken and the Paradox is only 7500 feet through vertical depth versus 10 000 in the Bakken.
So that's you have lower the cost structure there.
Can you kind of walk us through structure that you can earn into? I think its 20 000 acres.
Is that with another operator and what are the perimeters around that? Yes that's a block of acreage known as the hatch point unit and for every well we drilled we earned 5000 acres.
So we have the option of just drilling one or drilling four and earn based on that percentage.
What's your total well plans or wells planned in the Paradox in 13? Well as I explained earlier we're going to stay with a one rig program until such time as we think we should become more active.
Wells were typically taking about a month and a half drill.
Now we got that down more to like about 35 days.
So we're going to be somewhere in seven to eight wells but perhaps a few more if we continue to improve upon our drill types.
Got it in the Paradox is that all BLM lands? No there is a lot of federal acreage BLM lands but there also is some state as well.
How does your acreage break out on that on the percentage basis? I would say most of it is federal land and most of it in the Cane Creek unit.
I just don't have a breakdown for you Timm on how much state and federal.
We can get back to you on that.
Yes that's fine.
And then switching real quick to the topping plant is there anything embedded in 13 CapEx guidance at the pipeline segment for this project yet? Yes it is Timm.
We've built in kind of our expected costs for '13 and at this point we've included $75 million for that.
75 in '13 so when do think you can actually break ground? Is that a kind of a second half '13 event or more '14.
It's really predicated on our air quality permit.
We're not able to proceed with construction until we receive that.
As you know that was out for public comment.
That just closed yesterday.
So things probably still wait on some of that but once we get our permit we would be in a position to move forward.
How long does that typically take? I think it’s dependent on kind of just working through the process and the North Dakota Health Department really is in control of that.
We plan to work closely with them to help continue to move that process forward and we do expect to break ground or we're hopeful we break ground here this spring.
Got it and then just the last question it's kind of on the financing side I guess.
So if I'm looking at the CapEx guidance the dividend it's about $950 million of cash outflows in '13 to the extent this kind of is above your operating cash flow.
How comfortable are you this can be bridged you know via debt? Is there any equity at all that's in that in '13 guidance and how do feel about if there were an opportunity maybe to pick up some more acreage at the E&amp;P segment or around those parameters.
This is Doran.
Clearly cash is tighter as we enter 2013 versus when we came into 2012 but I think we really have a lot of options available to us as we think about our financing plans here going forward and some of the growth that we've got in front of us lot of it talked about already on the call.
Operating cash flows have been and will continue to be the primary source that we're taking a look at to fund ourselves as we go forward.
We're viewing in our forecast that operating cash flows are going to improve off 2012 levels and again that's into a lower CapEx forecast for '13 versus '12 and remember too from a cash flow standpoint we did pay five dividends in 2012 and we'll pay three in 2013 and really I guess as we take a look at our plan we're not targeting trying to meet that plan.
We want to exceed that plan.
That would obviously help cash flows as well.
That's one source as we take a look at it.
The balance sheet is strong to your point that does give us flexibility in terms of using moderate levels of debt to finance ourselves.
Clearly we want to maintain a strong balance sheet however and as you saw on our Press Release too we did have in 2012 some asset sales.
We don't put a whole bunch into our plan as we think about 2013.
That certainly could be another source of cash for us.
And then Timm we are also evaluating the potential of establishing an equity drill program or an aftermarket program where we could issue equity in large part to fund the larger projects you have talked about.
As it relates to the topping plan our utility growth program but really as a last resort only if we need it.
And in two projects that would obviously be very accretive as we talked about the topping plant and then investing at the utility with the allowed ROEs that we have there would be very creative and beneficial for the shareholders.
So really we feel like we’ve got a lot of options available to us as we think about financing for early ‘13 and ‘14 and beyond.
Okay got it.
Then the last two questions are in the construction segment.
So it looks like at the material segment it was pretty tough comps year-over-year.
Was any function -- I don’t remember this off the top of my head of just an unseasonably strong Q4 11? Is that kind of what had happened there?  Yes we also remember the Minnesota government shut down which really had an impact it pushed some of the work that we would have done actually in the second quarter and in the third quarter it really pushed it into the fourth quarter and we are fortunate that conditions were still good enough in the field to execute that work but that was the big driver and then we had a pickup of about $2.4 million after tax on some assets that we sold in the fourth quarter last year.
So when you look at that and if you just take our the equipment sales we’re down about $2 million quarter-over-quarter for Knife River in the fourth quarter.
Yes then reading through the news here there was a news flash that came out highway bill signed on Monday $720 million immediately available for road kind of improvements.
What does it do for you guys? How much of that do you think you can capture? I think they were saying bidding starts as early as February 15.
Are you guys actively part of this? Yes you are talking about the fast-track bill that was signed by the governor here in North Dakota.
Yes I think it came out Monday or something like that.
Yes I looked at the Press Release.
We were excited.
We looked at it.
They got a list of the bid lettings and lot of those areas are in our sweet spot.
As you know not only we have the materials but we also put out some satellites last year with ready-mix facilities in different pockets of the Bakken play and in North Dakota.
So we like our chances not only on the bid-day of winning some of that work but also one of our strategies going forward is we actually want to be a customer to some of our competitors.
And what I mean by that Timm is being able to sell materials if we’re at the right location with the right price we’ve got to be able to have an opportunity to sell something.
Just because we’re not successful say at a bid-letting on DOT-work we got to reach out to our competition and if we can provide good quality rock on a good price and good delivery that’s an area where we can grow and improve our margins because we know that we need to continue to improve on our margins both in the construction and materials but this is good news.
If you look at the Governor’s plan here in North Dakota it’s increasing by $1 billion.
It was 1.7 billion it’s going for 2.7.
This fast-track bill that went through the legislature very fast which was signed on Monday is just an acceleration of the needs that are out there and again we are in a very good position it’s in our backyard and we’ve got good skilled workforce we’ve got people in place we’ve got the housing in place we have the infrastructure in place to execute.
Okay got it and then actually I lied I have one more on the E&amp;P.
The two vertical wells you guys tested in Sioux County anything on those? I think as we mentioned before Timm on previous calls we are not saying much about what’s going on in Nebraska just because the competitive nature there.
We do expect despite the horizontal well within a month’s time and then at some point in the future we’ll talk about the results and what action we’re going to take going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of James Heckler with Levin Capital Strategies.
There has been a suggestion that the considerable value in your groups of businesses that you own that might not be reflected fully in the stock price and I know you’ve been an integrated company for a long time.
In that content I was wondering if you can talk the value in being an intergraded company what you see currently and going forward? Yes I will take that one James.
Certainly aware of reports that you’re referencing.
I think when I look at our company as an opportunity here to take the helm I think one needs to think about our abilities that we have across all of our business units and certainly one of the key themes and initiatives that really got started last year and we’re really accelerating on that is working across our business units and really leveraging skills and talents and we’ve already talked about some specific projects that I think we’ll start to highlight out or marquee that.
But clearly what are other monitor is we need to execute on the projects in front of us and I think when you take a look at our guidance that we provided just today for the coming year seeing some growth there when you take a look at some of the projects that are very tangible projects and kind of moving along ones we’ve talked about already today signs of the economy clearly we need to demonstrate that value among our business units.
I think we will do that and at the same time we’re cognizant of what others think about our various lines of business but it’s incumbent on us as leaders in this corporation to really leverage that.
I guess our skills and our strength across our business units and so that’s a long way saying.
I’ve looked at those reports I think it’s interesting to kind of contemplate that.
Currently uncomfortable with where we add on our current business mix but it’s incumbent on our leaders that we have in the room here to execute on the projects we have.
(Operator Instructions).
This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern today through to 11:59 p.m.
Eastern on February 19th.
The Conference ID number for the replay is 85150168.
Again the Conference ID number for the replay is 85150168.
We appreciate everybody’s participation on our call today.
We certainly will keep you updated as we move throughout this year.
Our Annual Analyst Seminar will be held in New York on March 14th so we hope to see you there or have the opportunity to visit and speak with you again soon.
Again thank you very much for your interest in MDU Resources.
This concludes today’s MDU Resources Group Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group’s First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a Question-and-Answer period.
(Operator instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern time on May 15th.
The conference I.D.
number for the replay is 66804286.
Again the conference I.D.
number for the replay is 66804286.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our Earnings Release Conference Call.
Before I turn the presentation over to Terry Hildestad our President and Chief Executive Officer I'd like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you would like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our Earnings Release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to item 1A "Risk Factors" in our most recent Form 10-K and the Risk Factor section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Terry followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are: Steven Bietz President and CEO of WBI Holdings; Dave Goodin President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and InterMountain Gas; John Harp CEO of Knife River Corporation and MDU Contruction Services; Kent Wells President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration of Production; Bill Schneider Executive Vice President of Bakken Development; Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
With that I'll turn the presentation over to Terry for his formal remarks.
Terry?  Thank you Doran.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss our first quarter results.
Our year is off to a solid start.
Our businesses are performing well in spite of unseasonably warm temperatures and commodity price challenges.
We believe this is a good indication of the strength of our diversified business and a solid base on which to continue to build.
Consolidated earnings were $35.6 million or $0.19 cents per share.
That's at the top of our first quarter guidance range.
This compares to $42.8 million or $0.23 cents per share in the first quarter of 2011.
I need to point out that in 2011 earnings did reflect an approximate $4 million dollar income tax benefit.
Now moving on to our individual companies I'll begin with our E&amp;P business.
We are excited.
Our increased rig activity is resulting in significant oil production growth.
Oil production increased 19% over the same period last year.
That's accounting for 36% of production for the quarter.
We're well on our way to achieving our oil production goal of 20% to 30% growth for the year.
We now have 10 rigs actively drilling with all focused on oil- and liquid-rich plays.
Eight rigs have been added in the past year.
We did experience some oil and natural gas pricing challenges this year that negatively affected earnings by $6.5 million dollars.
First as it relates to oil historically in the Bakken we've experience a discount averaging around $10.00 compared to WTI prices.
In March the spread widened to about $20.00.
The good news is the spread narrowed in April to approximately $20.00 and the outlook is for the spread to continue to improve throughout the year.
Averaged realized natural gas prices were 32% lower in the first quarter compared to a year ago.
Our E&amp;P group made substantial progress on its aggressive drilling program this quarter.
They added two more rigs since last quarter for a total of ten operating rigs.
Five of the active rigs are currently operating in the Bakken and as we announced in March we reached a new field production record there of over 5 000 net barrels of oil per day.
In Montreal County we continue to drill strong wells.
In March we reported our average 30-day rate on our most recent 8 wells was 44% higher than all previously drilled wells.
We have drilled half the wells we planned to ultimately drill in Montreal.
So there is still significant opportunity to grow production in this county.
In Stark County we have approximately 51 000 net acres.
We have two wells in the completion stages in our western block and have encouraging shows.
The Costa Lucky 5-8H and the Parker 29-32H.
Unfortunately For the remainder of 2012 we will focus our drilling in the same portion of our western acreage.
Watch for more information to come out on our Stark acreage as we continue to drill.
This time last year we did not have an acreage position in Richland County Montana.
Today we have approximately 57 000 net lease-hold acres in the concentrated block just south of prolific Elm Cooley which has been producing for a long time.
We are early on in this field.
We have just drilled our first well.
We'll keep you posted on our progress here.
The Bakken is huge for us.
We expect to invest a minimum of $160 million on our Bakken acreage this year.
That is about 40% of our projected E&amp;P budget.
Operations are going well.
We are on track to meet or exceed our planned well count for our Bakken acreage this year.
Hopefully you all saw our report last week on results on our acreage in the Paradox Basin.
The King Creek unit number 26-2H well tested at a stabilized rate of 647 barrels of oil and 561 MCF of natural gas per day through a 7x64-inch choke with the flowing pressure exceeding 3400 PSI.
The production rate is being significantly restricted to manage operations gather more data and minimize the flaring.
This well is significant and we believe the potential for this play appears significant.
It's the basis from which we hope to establish a very large and profitable growth area for our company.
We've drilled our second well in the Paradox and expect to put it on production this month.
In Niobrara we've completed the drilling of our four appraisal well program initially two wells in our Northern acreage block and more recently two in our Southern acreage.
We're awaiting completion on the two on our Southern acreage.
For now we've let the drilling ridge we had in the area go and we're pausing to evaluate initial well test results.
In Texas we're targeting areas that have the potential for higher liquids context we've continued to develop our South Texas acreage and we're pursuing additional opportunities that we can't go into detail on at this time.
In the Heath Shale we're drilling our second well and were encouraged thus far; this play is early in its development.
We are positioned well with high working interests in the area and approximately 90 000 total net lease-hold acres.
We're very excited about the momentum building within our oil development and exploration business.
Oil now represents 36% of total production that's up from 29% a year ago we currently have plans to invest about $400 million into the business this year and we continue to actively seek new lease holds and existing production areas along with a merging place to best position ourselves for the long term.
Our utility business preformed quiet well this quarter considering much of our service territory experienced record or near record temperatures throughout the winter and into this spring.
In fact our Plain Service territory experienced 31% warmer weather this quarter than prior years and our Idaho area was 11% warmer.
Warmer weather reduced earnings by $2.6 million after factoring in weather normalization from North and South Dakota and Oregon.
In addition a year ago we had the benefit of a $1.1 million income tax benefit related to favorable resolution of a tax matter.
We have substantial organic growth opportunities for our utility.
We have a capital program in place to invest approximately $915 million into the utility business over the next five years.
Included in this capital program is our proposed 88 megawatts that's an $85 million natural gas turbine that'll be located adjacent to the companies Heskett generating station near Mandan North Dakota.
On April 11th  In addition regarding our Big Stone station an order is expected in the second quarter for an Advanced Determination of Prudence on a proposed environmental upgrade at the facility for which our portion of the cost is estimated $125 million.
The Bakken area continues to provide substantial growth opportunities for our utility.
Electric customer counts in the area grew by 6% compared to last March totaling about 2 000 new customers.
An estimated 23 000 new homes are expected to be built in Northwest North Dakota in the coming years so anticipate continued customer growth for the foreseeable future.
This group is also focused on accommodating load growth in its industrial and agricultural sectors to serve existing facilities currently served by fuel oil or propane and to serve new customers.
One such project underway is a 30-mile natural gas line addition to the Hanford Nuclear site in Washington.
Our utility provides a strong foundation for earnings growth and is a reliable contributor to cash flow.
Next our Pipeline and Energy Service Group had lower earnings than a year ago driven by lower storage service revenue and gathering volumes.
Storage services were affected by lower balances this quarter compared to last year.
The result of lower storage injections in 2011 because of narrow seasonal and regional pricing spreads for natural gas.
Now on the upside we have recently seen an uptick in natural gas moving to storage and expect our average storage balances for the remainder of the year to be comparable to last year.
The lower gathering volumes were driven by reduced production related to lower natural gas prices.
Our Pipeline Group is well-positioned for growth particularly in the Bakken.
As we announced in February we are excited about our joint effort with Calumet Refining related to the construction of a proposed diesel topping plant to be located in Southwest North Dakota.
The plant would process approximately 20 000 barrels of Bakken crude daily with close to 50% of that refined into diesel to be marketed and sold locally.
There is a substantial undersupply of diesel in North Dakota with an estimated 50 000 barrels of diesel used daily in the Bakken alone and only 17 000 barrels actually refined in the entire state.
Site selection on the project permitting crude procurement and marketing and engineering studies are underway.
We are also continuing to explore opportunities related to other liquid-based midstream projects.
Another project underway in the Bakken is a 13-mile pipeline that will deliver processed gas from the State Line processing facilities into Northern Border pipeline.
In 2011 we doubled our take-away capacity from the Bakken and we're on our way to doing so this year.
We see good growth opportunities at our pipeline including those surrounding liquid-based midstream projects considering our geographic location in relation to the booming energy development areas in the country.
Now moving on to our construction businesses where we continue to see some signs of construction market stabilization.
Our service business got off to a great start for the year with earnings of 6.8 million dollars over the prior year.
The increase was the result of higher construction revenue in margins and higher equipment sales in revenue.
Our materials business experienced a seasonal loss which included lower aggregate margins and volumes compared to the first quarter of last year.
In addition on a combined basis  Combined backlog for the group is $865 million.
That's about 50 million lower than one year ago.
We are seeing a pickup in bidding opportunities in an number of our markets so we're hoping that the market has in fact bottomed-out.
We are pleased with our refinery turn-around business as we had managed to build a very strong reputation for quality work and have the right people in place to execute the intense work involved.
As a result we're picking up more work and have secured a record amount of backlog for this group.
Our Specialty Equipment Group which manufactures sells and rents equipment continues to see very strong demand.
The Bakken area has been mentioned a number of times today as a key driver for growth at our other businesses and this is no different for our Construction Group.
We have roughly $35 million in backlog in the area currently and expect that number to continue to grow.
We now have three of our service companies operating in the region as well as multiple material locations Williston and Tioga.
Our construction employee count in the Bakken has gone from zero a year ago to approximately 270 today and growing.
We're in excellent position to play a major role for years to come in meeting the infrastructure needs in our own backyard.
Our construction group will continue to seek out higher margin work maintain its focus on cost control and strategically manage its 1.1 billion tons of aggregate reserves.
Now returning to a consolidated discussion  We added lease holds in the Bakken.
We've identified through test wells what we believe to be a substantial property in the Paradox.
We grew our oil production 19% and increased our rig count to ten and we are on course for a 20% to 30% oil production increase this year.
Our construction group is geared up for a solid bidding season.
As always we will update guidance as the year progresses.
Our financial position remains very strong with 66% equity and a good liquidity that can support our plans to invest approximately $700 million into our businesses this year We're off to a solid start for the year.
Our businesses are making good progress and executing their 2012 plans.
We are committed to our share-holders with a history of consistent dividend payments and excellent long-term shareholder returns.
We are optimistic about the remainder of 2012 and beyond for MDU resources.
Thank you for your time today.
We'd be happy now to open the lines up to questions at this time.
Operator?   (Operator instructions) We will pause for just a moment to compile the Q &amp; A roster.
Your first question will come from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock.
Good morning.
Can you hear me?   Good morning Paul.
I can hear you loud and clear.
The pipeline and energy services business when we're looking at these lower storage services and what have you how much of this is weather and I guess when we look at the projects and everything that you have going on how much do you think you'll be able to off-set that going forward this year?   Paul this is Steve Bietz.
If you look at the decrease in storage that's been driven largely by differentials between summer and winter prices.
There just wasn't a financial incentive for companies to put gas in storage last year so we saw little activity and we're kind of seeing the effects of that going forward.
On the positive side is we've gotten in here into April and now the first day of May.
We've seen pretty good pickup in terms of interest in storage.
I think for the month of April we've moved over 4 BCF of gas to storage so that's very encouraging and we'll kind of see how that continues as we go forward for the rest of the year.
Okay and then on the electric side of the utility side it looked like fuel and purchase power went up a lot more than revenues.
I was just wondering what caused that sort of anomaly or is that an anomaly? What caused that?  Good morning Paul this is Dave.
Basically that was a function of the MISO market is what we were seeing there.
Again we're more of a buyer today then we were several years ago so far as a net buyer of energy and that is really largely recovered through our fuel clause adjustment through our electric service territories.
That's why the revenues are correspondingly up is because some of the wholesale prices were also up.
Okay.
With respect to the construction services it looks like a great improvement there.
Anything in particular any specific area that's doing better there or is that just operating leverage? I mean how should we think about that?   Yes Paul.
The interesting thing about our quarter if you look at all of our groups that are inside or outside our industrial and equipment site all of our lines of business were up across the board for the quarter.
You're just seeing a better economy right? I guess is that how to think about it?  Well again I've always said this we have the best people in the industry and we really think that's the difference with our group.
If you look at some of our peers they're obviously still dealing with a tough economy   Okay.
Finally the King creek just in general are you guys reappraising Paradox in terms of CapEx? As I recall it was only 10% of EMP CapEx for this year.
Has that changed have you guys thought about concentrating on it more with this development or how should we think of that?   Yes Paul its Kent.
Obviously the 262L's are very exciting and encouraging wells for us.
We put together an appraisal program of drilling four wells and we will continue on with doing that but we are looking to expand upon that.
Obviously   Let's hope so.
Thanks a lot   Thank you Paul.
You're next question will come from the line of Timm Schneider with Citigroup.
Hey guys how's it going?   Good morning Timm.
Hey first question is a follow-up on the Paradox.
You guys increased the upper band of DUR guidance pretty substantially to a million barrels.
I was just wondering what was driving that?   Well Tim its Kent.
Once again you can tell from our announcement it was a very prolific well that we see in the 26-2.
I think the subtleties that are there we only perforated 116-feet in a 1 000-foot lateral and it’s got enormous pressure behind it.
There is a well 5 miles away that cumed 1.1 million barrels it was drilled in 1962 and don't quote me on this but I think it came on at a very similar rates to what our well did.
We just felt that capping it at 500 000 barrels a day with that well plus a couple of other wells that have cumed in the 600 000 barrels a day was being a little bit too conservative.
We've upped that because we've learned a lot in the last six months here.
We're going to learn some more and we think there's even additional upside as we better understand this reservoir through our 3D-seismic and our ability to drill and complete these wells efficiently.
Can you remind us what the completed well costs are in the Paradox?   They’re in the range of $6 million.
I think as we get into development mode we can improve upon that.
One of the things we’re learning is the 1.1 million barrel well was actually a vertical well not a horizontal well.
We believe that we will end up fully developing our 75 000 acres out here through a combination of vertical and horizontal wells.
Obviously the vertical wells would be significantly cheaper than the $6 million range that I mentioned to you.
What’s the oil quality out there?   It’s good quality oil.
The production issue we have to manage is paraffin and that was one of the issues that we resolved.
We've got an injection string and we're pumping a paraffin inhibitor.
It's kind of the reason that we're holding production down around 600 barrels a day just to make sure we're really good at that.
Until we get pipelines in to collect the associated gas we don't want to have an overabundance of flaring in that area.
Good quality oil we just need to manage the paraffin associated with it.
I'm assuming the end market Utah refining plant at this point?   Yes.
We're trucking it to Salt Lake right now.
Okay.
Then just switching real quick over to the Bakken.
Sorry I jumped out a couple of minutes late.
You guys said there were some operational issues in Stark County is that correct? Is that why you don't have the results on those two other county wells?   Yes on the Parker and the Costa Lucky which are both very very good wells.
On the Parker well we were about halfway through the 28-horizontal fracking of it and we screened out so we had to switch to sliding sleeve to plug and perf.
That did two things it delayed it a month of us getting it completed and then because we had an obstruction that we are currently in the process of cleaning it out to get the full well on production.
The cost of Luck was slightly different in that the frack job went perfectly and as we were just starting a flow of that we got an obstruction in our frack liner.
But it's a high pressure well so we've been flowing it out the backside just to depressurize it so we can get rid of the obstruction and put it on production properly.
During that phase the well was flowing well over a 1 000 barrels-a-day initially.
So these are going to be good wells it's just we have had some operational challenges getting them on proper production.
Okay got it.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Paul.
John Hanson - Presidus  Good morning.
Good morning   Just want to follow-up a little bit you haven't talked much about Texas but you've been in Texas for  awhile are you pursuing things close by or some of the other areas of Texas?  We continue to run one rig in our South Texas operations which is primarily a vertical play very prolific works well for us.
We are in another area of Texas that we haven't disclosed yet and I think in due course we will disclose that but it could be in the next quarter or two.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
What is your latest mix public versus private at the construction businesses?   Very heavily weighted particularly at the materials businesses 80%/90% probably in the public works area.
We are hoping that at some point that will bottom out and that the private work will come back but a lot of public works in that area.
In the Constructions Services Group quite frankly that's much more private oriented actually don't have the breakdown on that because I think it's almost just the opposite of the materials side of the business.
It's mostly private investor-owned utilities and so they are basically two different operations when you look at the mix between public and private between our two construction companies.
Has the material side hit an inflection point yet or is it still deteriorating?  Well you know obviously you can see on our report our asphalt and our aggregate volumes were down over the quarter of last year although our Readi-mix was up primarily due to Western North Dakota.
We are hoping we have hit the bottom here.
We'll have a lot better understanding as we go into the second and third quarter which is normally our busiest time of the year.
But again we are trying to pursue as much as we can on the private side trying to improve our margins.
And if our volumes are going to be down we just have to be smarter on where we are spending our time and our energy to improve those margins going forward.
What are you seeing with regards to highway funding in D.C?   Well as you know it's on another 3-month extension and I think there will be another small extension before the election.
And then hopefully after the election people can start looking at a long term solution to funding which obviously would help the economy and obviously help the construction business but I don't look for anything beyond getting us through the election as an extension.
And I think the current one runs out here in June.
So another just short window of extending that.
Good thank you.
This marks the last call for questions.
(Operator instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern time on May 15th.
The conference I.D.
number for the replay is 66804286.
Again the conference I.D.
number for the replay is 66804286.
Your next question will come from the line of Sam Arnold with Brookfield.
Hi guys.
Just wondering could tell me what your AFE-ing at your wells for and the Bakken wells maybe by county?   Yes.
This is Kent Sam.
Our AFE cost range in the $8 million to $9 million range for the 2-mile horizontal laterals.
Okay.
And that's in all the different counties the Stark Richland and Montreal?   Yes.
We'll ultimately be a little cheaper out in Richland but right now when we are sort of in the exploratory/appraisal phase we do some additional testing.
That's our fully equipped what it takes to get them online et cetera.
So that's drilling completion facilities clean-outs et cetera.
Okay.
That's all I had thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Timm Schneider with Citigroup.
Hey just a quick follow-up do you guys have a location yet and the land and all that taken care of for the topping plant?   Yes Tim this is Steve.
We have selected a site and proceeded to secure that site.
So we are moving forward with that project.
We are looking forward to continuing our efforts there.
Okay.
What's the next regulatory milestone kind of as far as approvals go that we should look for?   Right now we've got some engineering work that we expect to be done here in the next week or two.
We've engaged an outside firm and are working through some of the permitting issues.
I don't have any key dates for you on that but we're working through those.
So maybe we can update you as we go.
Again this does mark the last call for questions.
(Operator instructions)This call will be available for replay beginning at 2:00 p.m.
Eastern time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern time on May 15th.
The conference I.D.
number for the replay is 66804286.
Again the conference I.D.
number for the replay is 66804286.
(Operator instructions)  At the time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you we appreciate your participation on our call today.
We are excited about 2012 and beyond in all of our companies.
We'll keep you updated as we move through the year.
We hope to have an opportunity to speak with you again soon.
Thank you for your interest in MDU resources.
This concludes today's MDU resources group conference call.
Thank you for your participation you may now disconnect.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha.
However we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet.
(Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com.
All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: transcripts@seekingalpha.com.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I’ll be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on May 15th.
The conference ID number for the replay is 30760556.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 30760556.
The number to dial for the replay for is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sarah.
And welcome to our earnings release conference call.
Before I turn the presentation over to Dave Goodin our President and Chief Executive Officer I’d like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you would like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to our conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and the Risk Factor section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
Frank Morehouse President and CEO of Montana Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas Bill Schneider Executive Vice President of Bakken Development at MDU Resources Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group and Kent Wells President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration and Production.
And with that I’ll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Thank you Doran and good morning.
Thank you for your interest in MDU Resources and for taking the time to join jus today to discuss our first quarter results.
We’re off to a great start to this year.
We had our best quarter since 2000 – our best first quarter since 2008.
Consolidated earnings for the quarter were 56.3 million or $0.30 per share.
This compares to 35.6 million $0.19 per share in the first quarter of 2012.
I will jump right into our individual operations beginning with our E&amp;P business.
Our focus with this group has been to significantly grow oil production and work towards balancing our production mix.
Kent’s team has done an excellent job of achieving that especially these last couple of quarters.
This quarter we increased oil production 46% compared to a year ago and for the second consecutive quarter produced over 1 million barrels of oil.
Equally significant is the fact that oil made up 46% of total production for the quarter with dry gas accounting for 46% and NGL the remaining 8%.
In 2012 oil accounted for just 29% of total first quarter production.
The increase share is partially driven by higher oil production but reduced dry gas production also played a significant role in balancing our portfolio.
In the last couple of years we have been the decision to shut-in wells and curtail development of dry gas considering the low prices that we have seen.
However at today’s natural gas prices with improved economics we anticipate bringing some of our shut-in wells back online here in the near future.
We now have five rigs operating on our acreage with three focus on our primary acreage here in the Bakken where first quarter production increased 63% compared to just a year ago.
In Mountrail County we continue to see strong results and improved efficiencies with two active rigs.
We have begun pad drilling with our first pad location drilling three long lateral wells.
Our focus is on fully developing proven oil reserves in the Middle Bakken but it’s becoming clear through results of other producers in the area that the three reports has significant potential for us as well.
We do have one rig running in Stark County and we started to hit our stride there as well.
Our well costs are down and that’s good news.
These results continue to improve which is expanding our sweet spot as well.
In Richland County we are working to resolve some drilling and completion issues that will enable us to successfully drill long lateral wells.
This quarter we plan to complete one or two wells that were previously drilled and then based on those results potentially drill two additional wells in the second half of the year in 2013.
As you have heard us say before the Paradox Basin is a potential game changer for us.
We’ve had some great success on certain wells such as the 12-1 and we are working to have repeatability in well results.
We recently brought online the Cane Creek 18-1 well on production and it has been producing 1000 barrels per day with a flowing to pressure of approximately 2000 psi.
We also recently completed some additional 3D seismic in the area about twice the size of our first seismic and we are setting that data as well.
This additional seismic will nearly triple our playing field so we’re pretty than excited about that as well.
We have plans to begin selective testing later in the year on the number of additional zones within the formation that we believe to be prospective.
So stay tuned for more on this as the results become available to share with everyone.
We see enormous potential for the Paradox Basin and we look forward to continuing development in the play.
However we’re not going to rush things here.
The Paradox is complex and we’re going to ensure that we know exactly what we’re doing before going into full development mode.
We’re certainly pleased with the start that we’ve had four E&amp;P group having its strongest first quarter since 2010.
We plan to invest approximately 400 million in 2013 in this business and we are projecting a 25% to 30% increase in oil production.
Our production and financial results are validating the strategy we have place and we look forward to continuation of that success.
Turning to our utility business it just had an outstanding quarter.
Its best ever in fact earning a record 42.3 million compared to 33 million in 2012.
This increase reflects increased natural gas retail sales volumes resulting from colder weather than last year as well as higher electric retail sales as well.
Also included in the earnings were $2.9 million gain on the sale of Montana Dakota’s non-regulated appliance service and repair business.
Temperatures were 28% colder in Montana Dakota service territory and 22% colder and Intermountain natural gas territory for the quarter when we look compared to last year.
This resulted in a 16% increase in natural gas sales.
We also achieved record electric sales volumes thanks in large part to continued economic growth in the Bakken area where we’re seeing sustained customer growth.
Our outlook for the utility business includes plans for investing nearly 1 billion over the next five years.
Included in the forecast is 86 million for the 88-megawatt simple cycle natural gas turbine to be located adjacent at our Heskett Generating Station here in Mandan North Dakota and a 100 million for our share of the cost of environmental upgrades at our Big Stone Station.
Both projects have received advanced determination of prudence and will commence this year.
The Bakken continues to exhibit incredible growth for our electric and gas utility group.
We have approximately 75 million in planned spending in that area to address the needs of a growing customer base.
We do have natural gas rate cases pending in both Montana and South Dakota totaling about 5 million of annual relief.
In Montana the company is requesting 3.5 million annually or approximately 5.9% above our current rates.
The commission there recently granted an interim increase of approximately $850 000 annually effective back on April 15th.
In South Dakota the company has applied for an increase of 1.5 million annually or approximately 3.3% above current rates.
Our utility really provides a strong foundation for both earnings and cash flows.
With our capital program we anticipate growing our rate base by over 400 million for about a 6% compounded annual growth rate over the next five years.
We are pleased that we expect to reach the 1 million customer mark in really the not too distant future.
Our utility has a very bright future and is an integral part of our corporation.
Now turning to our pipeline and energy services group we had earnings of 2.3 million compared to 2.8 million a year ago.
Earnings reflect lower natural gas gathering volumes from existing operations.
This decrease was partially offset by higher oil and natural gas gathering and processing volumes from the Pronghorn assets that we acquired last May.
Transportation volumes jumped 15% during the quarter when we compared to the same period just a year ago.
This was principally related to volumes associated with Bakken natural gas processing facilities.
We do have an aggressive goal to double our invested capital in this group over the next five years.
A substantial capital plan is in place to make this goal a reality as we’re projecting over 400 million in capital investments over that time.
A major project included in the forecast is the first of its kind in the country in over three decades.
On March 26 we did break ground on our Dakota Prairie Refinery project which is a joint project with Calumet Specialty Products Partners.
It is the first Greenfield refinery to break ground on U.S.
soil since 1976.
Construction will take approximately 20 months to complete so it should be operational in late 2014.
When complete the plant will process 20 000 barrels of Bakken crude per day generating approximately 7 000 barrels of diesel per day as well.
This project really highlights the advantages of our diversified business model as it has the potential to positively impact each of our business units.
Bakken crude is expected to be sourced in part at least by our E&amp;P company the utility has been authorized to provide electricity our pipeline will provide natural gas to the plant our construction materials company is already busy performing site work as we speak and our construction service group will likely be providing electrical and mechanical services as well.
In addition this project actually also provides an internal hedge against the Bakken oil price differential that we’ve seen both widen and narrow over the last several months.
Another major investment for this group was made in May of 2012 with the acquisition of a 50% interest in the Pronghorn natural gas and oil midstream asset near Belfield North Dakota.
The total investment in 2012 was approximately 100 million and we will receive the full benefit of those assets this year.
In addition to growing our midstream presence we are also focused on the continuing growth of our existing pipeline system that really overlays the Bakken.
We recently reached an agreement to construction of a pipeline in 2014 to connect the planned Garden Creek to gas processing plant in Northwestern North Dakota to deliver gas to the Northern border pipeline.
In addition there is also potential for a substantial pipeline project for a proposed fertilizer plant near Spiritwood North Dakota just east of here about 100 miles.
We continue to be optimistic about the future of our pipeline business given its proximity to the abundant growth taking place in the Rocky Mountain region energy plays.
Now let’s move on to our construction group.
Our construction businesses had another solid quarter with the services group earning 11.7 million and a seasonal loss of 20.6 million at our materials business.
On a combined basis results approved by 4.6 million compared to the same period last year.
Backlogs continue to increase keeping with the gentle sentiment that construction markets really are on the rebound.
Combined backlog for the group is now over $1 billion in fact 1.54 million; it’s really a substantial increase from just a year ago.
Large projects secured that contribute to this increase include a $72 million 16-month inside job that was secured by our Pacific Northwest Group for a major technology company as well as a $33 million casino project on Las Vegas’ strip.
Our companies are seeing bidding opportunities improvement in a number of our markets and we’re very excited about this upcoming construction season.
The successful first quarter at our services group was driven by strong results at our specialty equipment and supply business.
National construction indicators have largely continued to improve during the first part of 2013.
We’re seeing housing starts in March that were at levels 47% higher than the same time last year and the American Institute of Architecture reported in March that it was the eighth consecutive month of improved business conditions at architecture firms.
On a combined basis the construction group has now achieved year-over-year earnings improvement for six consecutive quarters.
I think it is safe to say at this point we see a recovery certainly underway and we’re looking forward to continued improvements as well as successes.
Returning to a consolidated discussion our first quarter results and substantially higher construction backlogs along with an increase in our natural gas price production has resulted in our decision to increase and narrow our 2013 EPS guidance range to $1.30 to $1.40.
On our year end call I stated I thought we were are completing 2012 as a stronger company than when the year began and that we were positioned well for growth headed into 2013.
I think our results have validated those thoughts for this first quarter.
At our E&amp;P business we produced over 1 million barrels of oil and 46% oil growth over the same period a year ago.
Our pipeline business has broke ground on the first Greenfield refinery in the country in 37 years.
The utility group enjoyed its best quarter ever thanks in part to colder weather as well as continued customer growth.
And our construction group continued to build momentum while substantially beefing up its backlog in both of those lines of business.
We are excited about the great opportunities ahead of us and we continue to see this growth continue.
Our capital budget for the year is approximately 860 million and our five year forecast includes approximately 3.9 billion in planned investment.
We are financially strong with adequate liquidity and we are committed to a competitive dividend for our shareholders as well.
2013 is off to a fast start and we look ahead to the challenge of building off this momentum for the remainder of the year.
There is still a lot of the year remaining.
Thank you for your time today and we will be happy to open the lines to questions at this time.
Operator?  (Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Congrats on a great quarter.
Thank you Matt.
Good morning.
The first question just regarding the guidance if you look at the implied guidance for the third and fourth quarters it actually looks like it is a little lower than it was previously.
So we need to talk a little bit about maybe what specifically would cause you to lower the guidance for the second half or if you are just kind of baking a little more cushion there? Yeah Matt this is Doran.
Really I think it reflects the strong first quarter that we had.
Obviously to Dave’s point we have got a lot of year in front of us we did increase the annual guidance.
But in terms of as we move throughout the course of the year we will be updating those quarterly ranges as well.
So I think it just really reflects the very strong first quarter we got off to in terms of annual guidance and then a lot of the year left in front of us.
So we will update those as we go.
Great.
Thanks.
And then on the construction segment you mentioned a couple of larger projects.
I was curious are there – do you see a lot more of those kind of larger projects out there or should we consider kind of the really strong bookings you had as being a little bit lumpy for the first quarter? Yeah.
Matt thanks.
I’m going to actually ask both Jeff Thiede and Dave Barney to talk about each of their business lines respectively.
Because again they combined backlog between those two business is like a $1.54 million right now and so I will turn to Jeff here because I did note a couple of project specific in his area and he can expand upon that.
Thanks Dave.
Good question.
And we’re seeing some pickup in the manufacturing sector across the country most notably in the semiconductor industry in the Pacific Northwest.
In addition to some industrial projects in Ohio.
So we think we are well-positioned.
We think we are getting these projects on our radar screen and identifying our value on our front on as well as before the come to bid and of course after the selection process so we can execute those projects successfully.
Good morning.
We are seeing like I talked about before we do jobs of between about 35 million and as low as about 2 million.
And we have jobs this year up to 27 million and our basic job there are 10 million to 15 million and we are seeing quite a few of those jobs and we are picking up quite a few of those jobs and we see quite a few of those out on our bid schedule.
If it will be successful or not I am not sure but they are out there.
Thanks guys.
I’ll jump back in the queue for now.
Okay.
Hey thanks Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bates with DA Davidson.
Hey good morning.
How much of the construction backlog is in the Central and Mountain regions where you noted regions have been under more pressure? Thanks Michael for the question.
Are you related to a construction materials or construction services? Color would be helpful on both but I was specifically referring to materials.
Okay.
Or the Central and Mountain region Dave I don’t know if we break that specific by region.
We don’t break out by region but we are seeing an increase backlog in all of our markets just not the Central market we’re seeing it in the pacific the inner Mountain which is Montana so we’re seeing an increase in almost all our backlogs and all our areas.
All right.
And then on the E&amp;P with the improvement in natural gas economics you noted that it’s driving a shift in your strategy in that segment.
Where do you expect natural gas production in 2013 versus last year? Yeah.
So Michael this is Ken.
We had forecast our decline in natural gas production to be in the 15% to 20% we did anticipate when we put that forward that we would be turning back on some of the production that we had shut off last – May in last year.
And we plan to do that over during the summer so therefore our forecast should remain the same.
While prices have improved significantly there’s still are not at the point where we would look to invest in natural gas preferential to our oil.
So we will continue with their strategy of investing in the oil and therefore we’re going to see the declines in the natural gas production.
Great.
And then one final question what was the weather impact for the utilities versus normal and versus last year? Thanks for the question Michael.
This is Frank.
We had actually I think as Dave addressed in his comments depending on the area up to 22% colder than normal temperatures and that greatly impacted our gas.
However we do have weather normalized rates in effect in both North Dakota South Dakota and Oregon.
And so that is somewhat kept those volumes a little lower but we still had a 16% increase over last year in our natural gas sales also an increase in our electric sales.
Thank you.
Thank you Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Good running gentlemen.
Good morning Holly.
First question for Ken Ken can you give us update on the 12-1 Cane Creek well and then maybe some comparability in terms of exchange completions or you know kind of strategy on this new well? Yeah and Holly I think you’re probably referring to the 18-1 which we’ve mentioned in the press release.
So the 12-1 well has continued to remain strong.
If you remember we ramped it up to 1500 barrels a day in last October.
It’s continued to produce at 1500 barrels a day since that time and still very strong.
I think the pressure last week was down to about £1800 volume pressure which is still very strong.
Now we did end up shutting that well in last week.
We got out of spec on further refinery and so we’re resolving that issue.
But then we expect to put it back on production at 1 500 barrels a day.
At some point we will start to see that decline but that well has performed extremely well.
And we think for that particular well we got the production rate right at 1 500 barrels a day.
The 18-1 when we brought on in the last month.
We’ve ramped it up to 1 000 barrels a day.
It is flowing right around 2 000 pounds of pressure.
What we’re seeing we think the 1 000 barrels a day is probably the right production rate but we will see with more time if that’s the right number or not.
But we’re really encouraged to have that follow up with the 12 well and then in the second quarter we would expect to complete another couple of wells as well.
So we’re starting to get more data points that confirm that our – the way we’re completing our wells and approaching production will get us this consistent result.
How long is it taking you to drill and complete these wells? Historically it has been somewhere in the 50 to 60 days on average.
We did get it down to – I believe it was just under 40 days with the well earlier.
But I think we should still sort of on average count on about 50 days for a while.
So would it be possible for you guys to have some more results next quarter? Yes.
Okay.
And then maybe Kent could you quantify the gas production shutdowns that will be turned online this summer just so we can have an idea of – kind of quarter-over-quarter maybe increase? Yeah I’d anticipate in round numbers we will break back about 10 million a day.
This is – this will come from our Baker and Bowdoin fields where we have very shallow and low rate wells.
So its bringing on several hundred wells.
And so we’ll do that ramp that up probably over a one to two months period as we balance out gathering in compression systems and stuff.
But in the ballpark it’s 10 million over the next several – next two to three months.
Okay.
And then maybe one for Steve on the gas gathering volumes any change thus far as natural gas prices have moved up and kind of produced your commentary or even produced your activity that could impact your gathering volumes.
Yet Holly this is Steve.
I think you probably hit it on the head we are hearing a little more discussion about bringing wells back as Kent just mentioned.
They’re looking to bring some of their wells back online.
We’ve had some other smaller producers kind of do a similar thing over the last month or two.
As far as kind of development activity probably a little early for that they haven’t heard a lot of discussion about a lot of additional drilling as we kind of sit here.
But we should see some unimproved volumes what Kent and his team are doing as we move forward here.
Okay.
Great.
And then just maybe just a cleanup item for Doran.
It looks like in the press release you talk about discontinuing the hedge accounting; will you guys break that out for us going forward so that we can kind of mark-to-market the model and the earnings on a quarterly basis? Yeah Holly so what we will do is if you go to the yearend release and you take a look at the reconciliation table of GAAP earnings which would include the non-cash effects and then we’ll map those out on a separate line item to get to an adjusted earnings number.
Going forward that’s our anticipated approach for breaking that out.
Okay.
So you might not call it out separately we will have to kind of back into it in terms of a recurring number.
No it will be called out separately.
Okay.
We’ll do the non-cash effects on a separate line item for you.
Perfect.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Holly.
You next question comes from the line of Chris Ellinghaus with Williams Capital.
Good morning Chris.
Based on the first quarter results do you anticipate NGLs ending up being a positive production number for the year? Chris this is Ken.
I think we were forecasting a marginal change and I think we’re going to probably continue to see that as a marginal change year-over-year.
Our focus is really on oil production and I just don’t think it will be a material change.
Okay.
And the – go ahead.
No that was all I had.
As far as the backlogs in the construction businesses these are probably the biggest increases in years probably since 2007.
Is this – did something happen at the beginning of the year that has made business more available? Are you getting luckier? Can you give us some color because these are huge numbers relative to what has been happening the last four or five years.
They are significant numbers Chris I will start with Dave Barney on the material side and then we’ll move over to Jeff on the services side.
Yeah as far as – Chris this is Dave as far on the material side we have just picked up quite a bit of work in the first three months.
In fact it’s the biggest backlog we’ve had since 2008 not 2007 of the first quarter.
I don’t think it’s been lucky with a bid there is quite a bid list out there.
But we’ve done a good job of targeting certain jobs and picking them up and we continue to see that going forward.
There is just more work out there to bid too Chris.
Okay.
In construction services we’re still seeing tight margins but volumes are increasing and work opportunities are also available.
So we need to remain disciplined on our pricing levels but we have secured a couple of significant projects.
One of them in the Midwest called Prairie Wind Transmission about 23% complete an important project for us.
But we know we’ve got to execute safely and productively so we can bring those earnings to our books.
Okay one more thing Ken.
You’ve secured some pretty attractive additional hedges.
Can you give us a little color on what you’re hedging strategies is for ‘14 and ‘15 right now? Yeah Chris our hedging strategy is always just to manage risk and so we look at what our plans are what the forecast are and we try to lock in hedges that sort of guarantee to deliver our plan or over deliver.
We don’t get into any speculation on that and use it more as a risk management.
So we will continue to hedge in forward years as we believe it’s appropriate to management risk.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Timm Schneider with ISI.
Hey guys.
How’s it going? Hey good morning Timm.
Thanks for joining us.
No worries.
Hey a couple of questions on the Bakken specifically.
You have 40 locations you guys have left in Mountrail County.
What do you think the opportunity set is there with down spacing and I think you’re doing a little bit of testing? What could the ultimate locations be I guess and what spacing could you move down to? That is the question of the day in the Bakken and I think all of industry is sort of trying to grapple that.
There are others that are more aggressive than we’re on testing this Timm and I think you have heard me say before we’re watching carefully what they are doing.
We’re not sure where that will lead.
History has always showed that every sort of field goes through different phases of development and we’re arguably still in the first phase in the Bakken.
So I think there is the opportunity.
And you can argue that if you do down space you are going to double the number of wells to be drilled that you have already drilled.
So I mean that is sort of the potential that is out there.
I’m not – I don’t feel comfortable enough throwing on a number yet on what that would mean.
I do know that in Mountrail County for instance we have done very little in the Three Forks so there’s still an awful lot of potential there.
And then the big opportunity for us actually it is in Richland County.
We have just recently tried a new frac technique there and we don’t have production results yet.
But that would really open up the amount of investment opportunity we have in the Bakken for ourselves.
Yeah actually sticking to Richland County for a second.
Can you give us an update on what you guys are doing there? Are you still testing is that still something you are excited about or has the overall I guess if you could Bakken versus Paradox has the excitement level now just shifted off to the Paradox at this point? No it definitely hasn’t shifted.
The Paradox is very exciting for us.
It’s an exciting basin period.
And it’s so material for us.
I don’t want to take anything away from that but Richland County if you remember what we talked about there was two hurdles we needed to get over.
One we needed to be able to drill longer lateral wells for the two mono laterals like we are doing in the rest of the Bakken which is what has made it economical these days.
We had well stability problems; so we hadn’t solved that problem yet.
And then the probably the biggest lever is what is the actual fracking technique.
And we’ve tried a new technique that some others have been trying as well that we think holds a lot of potential but we are just in the early flow back stages.
The well is flowing back incredibly strong which will pump so much more water.
In the early days you are just getting enough water.
So we just don’t have a good results we will at the end of the second quarter be able to talk about how that is working for us.
And then just shifting real quick on the topping plant can you just kind of give us some color as to what your long term margin assumptions are for that refinery or that topping plant I should say? Tim this is Steve.
I guess we haven’t really got into all of the margin activity.
Let me just say we view this as a very strong project for us kind of compared to what some of our other pipeline related activity.
It’s got higher potential clearly I think we are looking at purchasing Bakken crude oil that certainly has many times sold at a discount in selling diesel into a market that seems to need additional diesel supplied to it.
So we like those economics as I said today what we shared is kind of looking at is double-digit returns the ROIC-type returns on our investment there.
Okay.
And last one for me on the extreme side I know Whiting still has some midstream plants and end of your neck is on the line there.
Any interest and maybe adding to what you already bought them? We’re always looking for business development opportunities whether it would be with Whiting or other potential parties.
So yeah we keep that door open.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Tim.
You next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good morning guys.
Can you hear me? Good morning Paul.
How are you? Good.
Good.
Most of my questions have been answered but just a certain follow-up on construction for a second.
The big backlog increase how should we think about margins again just in general in relation to this increase – in terms of how they are trending? Paul this is Dave Barney.
On the margins of the construction backlog is about the same as it was last year in this quarter.
But we expect that to continue to grow as we get more into the year.
As far as materials go we’re seeing improvements in our margins and price increases.
So we expect that to hold and positively grow.
Okay.
And then – that’s great.
And then on the Paradox it sounded I mean you guys mentioned about the need to study this and to do more work before you get much more heavily involved.
But it sound like it was a very substantial opportunity.
So I was wondering if you could sort of give us a flavor as to how much time the sort of study period might take and when we might hear more about what the potential opportunities the significant potential opportunities that might be there? Yeah Paul this is Ken.
I think it’s probably I’m not sure I’d put it in the category of study as much as I would we’re looking at how we execute.
This is a really complex basin from everything from drilling completing production.
It’s an area that’s – is a beautiful part of the country and we want to make sure we do things right.
So we’re trying to go at a pace that we don’t get ahead of ourselves.
As Dave mentioned we run to more seismic.
So we’ve got a one program that we’re going forward with and we’ll continue to do that until we get to the point that the permitting process our understanding of it just allows that we can have very repeatable results so that when we pick up the pace we don’t call a buster pick on it.
So I don’t have a timeframe in mind.
Obviously we look to grow our production as quickly as possible and as soon as we feel comfortable with that it’s a prudent decision for the company we’ll do that.
Okay.
I mean I am don’t – I am not trying to hold it to a specific timeline or something.
I was just sort of trying to get a general sense as to you know are we talking year I mean this sort of like an eight year if it’s possible any sort of general timeframe? Well Paul it’s not like we don’t think about it and talk about it.
But I’m really not prepared to put a number on out and then I am going have it.
If I don’t have to explain it you will have to explain it to somebody else so.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thanks Paul.
You next question comes from the line of Dave Parker with Robert W Baird.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Suggestion for the second quarter earnings call may be you can bring some business development ideas or opportunity so we have something to talk about.
Okay.
Thanks Dave for the idea.
Yeah that’s a joke.
Well obviously we’re all kind of taken aback by – the quick turnaround in particular in the aggregate side material side of the business.
I was looking for a tough comp in the first quarter particularly in the volume side because it was so mild last winter.
So maybe we can start there and give us a little color on why the volumes were up so strong? I – you came in a little sketchy on that one Dave.
Could you repeat your questions for Dave Barney? Yeah it was – with mild winter weather last year I was expecting kind of the aggregate sales to be a tough comp this year and yet that wasn’t the case.
Any color you can provide there I know you have been providing a lot of color but that was one surprise.
Actually we had more work with our sister company Fidelity this year than we did last year doing well pads and that definitely helped us this year in North Dakota.
And – we started the refinery in the end of March so we have a little bit of that work there.
But that definitely helped increase our aggregate volumes in North Dakota this year.
And so do you expect that trend to continue throughout the rest of the year Dave? Do we can’t? He is writing a check okay good.
Second question on the pipeline extension opportunity for the fertilizer company.
What size of an opportunity would that be? Is there something if you extend that pipe are you able to do other things other than just a regular fertilizer company? To start out in terms of the plant itself expected consumption of natural gas is in the 90 000 McF a day range.
So that requires some pretty substantial pipe to be brought in there.
We are studying some different alternatives to get gas to that location.
So it’s a little early to kind of give you an idea of kind of the investment and so forth.
But it could range from some fairly short pipe to some pretty extension pipe all the way from the Bakken region over to that area.
So a bit early there – the second part of your question what was that again? Could you repeat that? If you extend a pipe over the fertilizer company is there ways you could pick up other customers or wasn’t maybe necessarily to make sense before.
Absolutely that’s part of our approach to this project as well.
If you look at the Eastern North Dakota it’s always been a bit short on natural gas supply.
So moving gas kind of that direction would certainly positively affect the loads that our existing system as well as maybe supplying some additional loads that are currently supplied by others in Eastern North Dakota.
And if you kind of go from the Bakken all the way in that direction there is potential load to be picked up along that route as well.
And one last question on that pipe Steve is it how would that be regulated or is that regulated by – or how is that? That would be under our WBI Energy Transmission or regulated business and would be subject to FDRC or Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approval and regulation.
Finally.
Do you see with gas prices increasing seeing anymore appetite for storage capacity or is it too early? We haven’t really seen it at this point.
What really drives storage is the differentials kind of summer versus winter or summer – current prices versus forecasted prices.
We’ve seen the kind of the current strip or near months kind of move up and the outer months haven’t moved up probably quite as much.
So it’s a little bit early kind of forecast or storage activity this year but we’ll get to stay tuned there.
All right.
And maybe – I don’t know you guys laid this out on the Utility Day or – I’m sorry your Analyst Day and I’m just missing the details there.
But a $1 billion in the utility CapEx in five years and I add up the projects you got and I get to 300 million or 400 million what’s the remainder there can you – if you just refresh our memory of maybe general buckets.
Yeah I’ll Frank touch base on that one.
But I think you’re partially right Dave.
Thanks Dave this is Frank.
The – we have a number of projects that we have in our five-year plan.
One is a major transmission line project about $125 million of investment there.
We have of course our air-quality project there at the Big Stone plant $100 million all on those lines.
We also have a number of pipeline replacement and safety integrity management projects that are going on.
Washington Oregon Idaho we have a new pipeline being built for the Haskett generation facility.
So all of those begin to look at the Haskett new facility for the gas turbine.
There are just a number of major projects.
You know sort of aligned to that and the very good growth that we’re seeing and experiencing here with population expansions in the Bakken.
We’re also seeing some pretty significant growth within the other utilities out west you know customer growth to the north side of 1 and 1.5% of that way which definitely speaks towards a recovering economy and a bright future for the utility.
Yeah.
Does that paper placement Frank were covered is it tracked or do you have to do a rate case or eventually get that into rate base recovery? In most cases we’re going to have to do a rate case for that recovery.
Washington has just recently passed some legislation and the public service commission out there WTUC has allowed for a tracker recovery.
We have not applied for that yet but we intend to.
Okay.
Great.
And one last question just on the mark-to-market issue do I assume the guidance will exclude the mark-to-market gain losses that you can forecast? Yeah that’s right Dave.
So our approach to this is just – so we’re all on the same page going forward.
Starting with the second quarter press release we’re not including anything in our guidance as far as potential non-cash effects from changes in value from the hedges.
And then what we’ll do is we will put a reconciling table into the second quarter press release that says here is GAAP earnings here is the effect of the non-cash hedges and then get you to an adjusted earnings number which is more cash based and then that’s the number then that relates or correlates back to like how we’re discussing guidance.
All right.
Perfect.
That’s excellent.
Thanks so much Doran.
Thanks for the answers I appreciate it and again congratulations.
Great.
Thank you Dave.
(Operator Instructions).
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today until 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Time on May 15.
The conference ID number for the replay is 30760556.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 30760556.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Follow-ups on the construction side.
As all of the anticipated work for the refinery already reflected in the first quarter backlogs? No it is not Matt.
I think we got about 7 million that work in the backlog for the first quarter.
Is that going to kind of continued to grow throughout the course of the project or is there going to be another kind of slog in the second quarter.
On the material side we anticipate that will grow for the year.
We’re not sure how much.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just with reference to your comment in the press release you expect margins to improve this year.
Can you give us a sense to how much is related to the current pricing in the backlog or pricing on current bids as opposed to just seeing stronger volumes and you know better utilization in operating leverage.
This is Jeff.
We think stronger volumes will help.
Margins are continuing to be very competitive.
We’re seeing an uptick in Las Vegas.
If you look at our Las Vegas companies all companies all five of our companies in southern Nevada have increased.
No we haven’t returned back to the peak earnings level but we see an improvement in that area.
So we think volumes will help.
We think our operational efficiencies will improve as well.
I think in our tough times that we’ve had in southern Nevada and across the country we have gotten stronger.
Our people have done more with less and we’ve looked at ways to prefabricate on our projects.
We have become more efficient and we have always kept safety that’s the first part of our plans.
Great.
Thanks guys and congrats again.
Thank you Matt.
Thanks for joining us today.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
We all are certainly excited as well as focused on executing on our substantial growth opportunities right in front of us and as we are continuing to push forward on better leveraging our expertise across our business units as well.
We appreciate everyone’s participation on our call today and we will keep you updated as we move throughout this year.
Again thank you for your interest in MDU resources.
This concludes today’s MTU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group second quarter 2013 conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
This conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you'd like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to our conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and the Risk Factor section of our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session in the conference call today are: Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources; Frank Morehouse President and CEO of Montana Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; and Kent Wells Vice Chairman of MDU Resources and President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration and Production.
Now before I turn the call over to Dave as we stated on our first quarter earnings conference call following industry trends we discontinued the use of hedge accounting effective April 1.
And as a result perspective non-cash changes to the fair value of our commodity derivatives now have non-cash impact on the income statement before they were recorded to the balance sheet.
In addition we move to a format of presenting our earnings on a GAAP basis as well as on an adjusted basis netting out certain one-time or non-cash items such as the changes in value from our commodity derivatives.
Dave will focus on the adjusted earnings in his remarks today.
However we have provided reconciliations to GAAP earnings in the slides accompanying this webcast and in yesterday's press release.
Now with that I'll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Thank you Doran and good morning.
Thank you for your interest in MDU Resources and for taking time today to join us to discuss our second quarter results.
Building on a strong first quarter we continue to see growth in our second quarter.
Consolidated adjusted earnings for the quarter were $47.2 million or $0.25 per share.
This compares to $32.5 million or $0.17 per share in the second quarter of 2012.
The beginning of summer saw a significant activity across really all of our lines of business.
Fidelity produced an all-time quarterly record of 1.2 million barrels of oil up 37% increase over our prior year.
At our utility group customer counts continue to grow by 7% and 6% respectively for electric and natural gas in the Bakken area year-over-year last year.
The pipeline group had over a million yards of material move at our diesel topping plant site.
And at the construction group we overcame really a very wet start to the season and posted a strong quarter and is well-positioned for the remainder of the year with higher backlogs.
Now let's move on to individual operations beginning with our E&amp;P business.
Adjusted earnings for this group were $24.8 million compared to $15 million just a year ago a 66% increase.
This increase resulted from improved pricing for both oil and dry gas as well as a substantial increase in oil production.
This was our best second quarter since 2008 when prices were really very much higher.
Leading the way to our record oil production this quarter were both the Bakken and the Paradox Basin plays.
Our Bakken oil production increased 42% and production in the Paradox nearly quadrupled year-over-year.
We have subsequently moved our oil production growth target higher to an increase in production in the range of 25% to now 35% over last year.
We've also driven efficiency in our key drilling and completion operations and are looking to balance our capital program with our operating cash flow over the near-term.
We believe this is good discipline and we want to be capital efficient.
Of course wells like our Cane Creek 12-1 in the Paradox Basin help with this cause.
If you recall this well sustained production of 1 500 barrels per day for a number of months.
It's finally come off the 1 500 per day plateau but it's still free flowing at 1 100 barrels of oil per day and has already produced over 400 000 barrels since coming online just September of 2012.
We expect EURs in the range of 1.2 million to 1.4 million barrels of oil for the 12-1 well and it's got to be among the best onshore wells drilled in the U.S.
last year.
While the 12-1 success is great what's more important to us is that we're beginning to see additional high-producing wells consistently in the Paradox.
In May we mentioned the 18-1 which had consistent flowing rates of 900 barrels of oil per day on a gross basis.
And now in addition the 13-1 and the 17-1 have consistent flow rates of 700 and 500 barrels per day respectively.
Our understanding of this play and the quality of the play is really improving.
We expect the Paradox Basin will play a key role in our oil growth strategy.
Let's go back to the Bakken for just a moment.
It continues to be our largest and steadiest producing area.
We've had good success in completing our first three-well pad in Mountrail County and in the just 10 days of initial production the pad averaged 2 770 barrels of oil per day gross.
We have additional of the potential for 10 additional multi-well pads in Mountrail County alone and our next pad should come on production during the third quarter.
In Stark County we continue to grow our production with one rig drilling program and are expanding our sweet spot and Tier 2 acreage with improved drilling and completion performance.
In Richland County we've taken a pause in our drilling activity as our results to date have not met our threshold for moving to full-scale development.
We continue to reevaluate and refine our completion technique as well as study another horizon that is productive in that particular area.
Our E&amp;P group is off to a great start through the first half of the year.
Our oil production growth and financial results have validated our strategy of deploying capital to high return oil plays.
And now oil represents approximately 47% of our production allowing us to benefit from the current commodity pricing environment.
Let's move on now to our combined utility businesses which reported a seasonal loss of $1.5 million for the quarter.
Natural gas sales did grow 14% primarily as a result of colder weather along with 4% growth in electric retail sales.
We continue to experience strong customer growth for both electric and natural gas side to the business as we reach one million total customers over our eight-state footprint.
Total electric counts grew by 3% compared to just a year ago while gas customer counts have increased 2%.
These increases were again largely driven by substantial growth in the Bakken where we saw that 7% increase on the electric side and 6% increase for natural gas customers.
The influx of customers to the Bakken area has necessitated also a great deal of infrastructure needs or rate-based growth.
In 2013 we intend to invest approximately $75 million to address some of these needs.
Longer-term our plans for the utility include approximately $1 billion in capital investment over the next five years which should generate roughly $400 million in additional rate base.
Included in this capital campaign is a $86 million for an 88-megawatt natural gas turbine to be located adjacent to our company's Heskett Generating Station just across the river in Mandan North Dakota which is now expected to come online in the third quarter of 2014.
We will also investment $100 million for our share of the environmental upgrades required at our Big Stone Station as well.
And we're also engaged in a 30-mile natural gas line into the Hanford Nuclear Site in South Central Washington that will be an estimated $46 million investment as well.
This group has rate case increase request outstanding totaling $5 million in Montana and South Dakota.
We also have an application filed that North Dakota for approval of an environmental cost recovery rider related to the upgrade at the Big Stone Station.
And we recently also filed an application for advanced determination of prudence for North Dakota with the added pollution control equipment at our Lewis &amp; Clark generating station that has an estimated cost of approximately $26 million.
Our Utility Group continues to be both a reliable and growing source of earnings and is off too a record pace with year-to-date earnings totaling $40.8 million.
Now next our pipeline and energy services group reported adjusted earnings of $2.6 million up slightly from just a year ago.
This group benefited from the addition of the Pronghorn natural gas and oil midstream asset that we acquired May of last year.
Storage service revenue was lower because of narrow seasonal spreads in gas prices.
Gathering volumes were down as producers continued to adjust operations because of low natural gas prices.
And as a result we did have a non-cash charge this quarter of $9 million after-tax for an impairment of certain coalbed gathering assets.
This group is in the midst of expanding its midstream liquids presence.
The Pronghorn acquisition was the first step in that direction and the next major step is the diesel topping plant.
Plant construction is well underway and currently on tract with initial site grading substantially complete.
To date over a million yards of material have been moved and access bridge is being build foundations for 16 storage tanks are ready with tank construction well underway as well.
The project is expected to generate EBITDA of $70 million to $90 million in the first year of operation.
This amount is shared equally with our partner Calumet Specialty Products.
We're excited that together with Calumet we'll be responsible for the first Greenfield refinery built in the country since 1976.
In addition our regulated pipeline group recently announced a proposed 400-mile natural gas pipeline.
This will be an estimated $650 million to $700 million investment where the proposed pipeline will move from the Bakken area in western North Dakota to western Minnesota and would be by far the largest project the company has ever undertaken.
The pipeline would increase takeaway capacity out of the Bakken to accommodate the rapidly growing natural gas production in the region.
We plan to see long-term capacity commitments on the proposed project this fall and now assuming sufficient commitments and receipt of all necessary permits and regulatory approvals contraction on the pipeline would likely begin in early 2016 with completion expected later that same year.
Our pipelines business environment has changed and so with it too has our strategy.
We're confident that the steps we're taking today will yield benefits for our shareholders into the future.
Now let's move on to our construction materials and services companies where we had a combined earnings of $22.9 million for the quarter.
This is a 39% increase over last year and is the second best quarter we've had since 2008.
Actually it's best second quarter we've had since 2008.
And now we've shown seven consecutive quarters of year-over-year improvement on our results.
At construction materials earnings for the quarter were $10 million a 29% increase over last year.
This earnings increase is on lower revenues resulting from margin expansion driven in part by a lower cost structure.
We are especially pleased with this result considering the wet spring we encountered in certain areas compared to a very favorable weather conditions in the second quarter last year.
We have started to see signs of recovery in a number of our markets.
Even in Northern California market we're beginning to see signs of recovery.
Now that we are in peak of our construction season North Dakota will play a key role for us.
Our North Dakota backlog alone was a $165 million at June 30 compared to $83 million last year.
And with the North Dakota record Department of Transportation budget of $2.8 billion for the 2013 2015 biennium we are confident that there is several or many other projects and opportunities to come down the road.
Our services business also had really a very excellent quarter achieving $12.9 million in earnings.
This compares to $8.7 million last year or a 49% increase and is the highest second quarter earnings level since our record high in 2008.
Earnings increased really across all regions within our CST group.
On a combined basis our construction group is in its best positions since 2009 and as we head into the second half of the year.
National indicators for the construction environment continue to be positive often boasting of levels not seen in the last five to seven years.
Backlogs are up as we mentioned earlier to $1.2 billion on a combined basis a 20% increase from a year ago and it's the highest backlog we've seen since 2009.
Our contracting backlog at construction materials is comprised now of 13% private work compared to 8% private work just a year ago.
We have a truly exceptional team in place that has done a great job at finding quality work in our markets and markets we believe are very strong long-term.
We continued to look-forward to increased continued success at the construction group as the country's building activity improves.
Now let's look at our consolidated discussion.
We're pleased that we're able to carry the momentum we've built in the first quarter through the second quarter with another very solid quarter.
And we're optimistic about the remainder of the year as well.
We think we're taking the right steps at each of our business units to have sustained success and that our business compliments each other really very nicely.
For one we're beginning to see the upward trend and how leveraging across our businesses improve our results.
At our E&amp;P we're focusing on balancing our capital investments with cash flows as we continue to boost oil production.
Our disciplined approach has brought efficiencies lower well cost without comprising the overall strategy of balancing our production portfolio.
The utility group has a substantial $1 billion capital program in place for the coming five years with a goal of increasing our rate base on a 6% per year compounded basis.
And as I mentioned earlier we have several substantial projects well underway.
The pipeline group is growing our midstream business with projects like the diesel topping plant.
And the construction group is off to a fantastic start and now in the midst of peak activity time with earnings margins and backlogs all trending up.
I certainly like the future.
I think it looks bright.
And I think our companies are very well-positioned to take advantage of further growth opportunities as they arise.
Our capital budget for the year is approximately $850 million and our five-year forecast includes approximately $3.9 billion in planned investment.
We're both financially strong with adequate liquidity and as it been the case for 75 years we're committed to paying a competitive dividend for our shareholders.
Thank you again for you time today.
And we'd be more than happy to open the lines to answer questions that you might have at this time.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
My first question relates to the wet weather that you saw in North Dakota during the quarter.
I was a little surprised that there maybe wasn't more of an impact in some of your segments.
You kind of briefly did mention it with respect to the construction segment.
Just hoping you could elaborate a little bit whether you saw impacts and if you can quantify that at all? Matt I'll turn that over to Dave Barney who heads the materials division.
It did effect us in the Midwest especially North Dakota Montana.
It's just didn't impact our construction it impacted material sales.
As far as giving you an exact number that'd be hard to do but if the weather holds we'll be able to make that up and it's definitely in our backlog Matt.
It sounds like even there wasn't much impact on the E&amp;P side? We did see particularly earlier in the quarter it really affected our service rigs operations.
And we did have some production offline.
But towards the end of the quarter we had really really strong production growth until that met our expectations for the quarter.
And Kent could you comment a little bit on the well costs for the well that was drilled during the quarter in the Bakken and the Paradox? In the Bakken and I'll give you a year-to-date numbers if you're okay with that.
In Mountrail County we continue to make the improvements there versus a year ago.
We've got a well cost down about 15% in the range of $7 million to $7.5 million.
In the Stark County we're in the range of $7.5 million to $8 million and once again down about 10% to 15%.
In the Paradox the well cost because we've been starting to do a longer completions in it.
And given this better rig well a well cost is about $9 million and that's down from between $10 million and $11 million from previous year.
And one more question and I'll jump back in the queue.
On the diesel refinery EBITDA projections could you talk a little bit about your assumptions underlying that with respect to commodity prices or crack spreads however you may be looking at it? Yes.
Matt I don't know I'll ask to Steve to cover that.
But I'm sure I think he is going to say we're going to not get into real specifics but I'll ask Steve if he'd be wants to add anything more to that.
Dave you pretty much covered.
This is Steve we've just lost debt.
And as you would expect I am trying to consider the markets for our three different products that we expect to come out of the plant.
We looked at kind of these receipt quantities and processing cost and that.
And so there's lot of assumptions under there.
And we're not prepared to get into that.
But that's all driven our $70 million to $90 million of cash flow coming from the total facility.
Our next question comes from the line of Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Let me first I guess touch on the E&amp;P side.
Kent maybe if you could give us first quarter production numbers in the Paradox so we can just see the sequential ramp that we've got going on? Well Holly as you know we're very excited about the Paradox.
And it just continues to grow for us.
If we look at it on just a cumulative production in the first quarter I think we were just shy of 150 000 barrels total production there.
The second quarter we were over 200 000 barrels around 210 000 I think was the number.
So you can see it's a pretty significant uplift from first quarter to second quarter.
And then you mentioned in the release permits would be your kind of hindrance I guess to a ramp up in activity.
Can you talk about permitting levels and what you need to do there to kind of get those permits in line? Yes.
I think one of the things this play has been a play that has worked at our industry for the number of decades.
And we're trying to be just incredibly disciplined with what we're doing here.
And so we haven't jumped out and permitted 50 or 100 well so we have this huge backlog in front of us.
But as we've started to understand the play and nowhere we need to go then we need to build up a backlog what I call ready-to-drill locations which means not only we decide that where want to drill but they're also permitted.
So we're going through that process with the BLM.
And we will I think in due course get a backlog that will then make us feel more comfortable with moving beyond the single rig program.
We're anticipating that to happen in the first half of next year.
And then maybe just specifics on the second half of 2013 well count? For the Paradox? Yes.
Well it takes us about 45 days to drill a well.
Another week call it to move from well to well.
So you could sit there and go well gosh then that's about three more wells by the end of the year.
Maybe we can push that closer to four but it's in that range.
As long as we stay with one rig so you know why I'm anxious to move beyond the one rig program because we can really start to accelerate our production but we've got to get the inventory build before we can move forward with that.
And then one final on the Paradox I know it's early; any indication on spacing at this point? That is a really good question.
And when you look at the recovery that we're seeing or anticipating forecasting from the 12-1 we're really trying to understand what the drainage pattern is going to be.
And it could be that there is a fair amount of variability to it.
So really don't have a good answer for you but it is something we're looking at quiet deeply.
And we'll probably need to drill another dozen or so wells before we have a better idea what that's really going to be.
And then just one on the Bakken.
Have we drilled a Three Forks test yet in Mountrail County? We had drilled it and we'll be completing it later this month.
And we will be experimenting with some of the newer technology that all of us in the industry are looking at right now.
So we'll be encouraged to see what happens with that well.
We will know by this time next quarter.
And then maybe for Steve or Dave on the pipeline business your big long-haul pipeline project.
I guess maybe just talk about how this project came about and then what type of interest level you guys would feel comfortable with moving forward on the project.
It something we have been looking at for quiet a while.
And one of the largest reasons is the increase in gas production kind of associated production in the Bakken play.
And so that gas we're going to get produced as oils developed up here.
So looking for some other outlets today that gas can go out of the area through northern border through alliance.
Both of those pipes tend to be are pretty much full today so really looking at a new market.
We've looked at some different routes and different things there.
We have kind of laid this out to pick-up some load potential in Eastern North Dakota as well as kind of the Fargo market and into Minnesota into the Viking System.
I guess I'd say we have been encouraged by the reception.
I think there is a view that there is going to be a need for additional takeaway and diversification to move some of the gas production North Dakota.
We're working on hard to kind of continue to market the project and listen to the feedback we've received from our customers.
As far as what commitments we're going to need it's probably a bit early.
There is a lot of factors there when you think of various contractual terms.
You think about just the term of the agreements the volumes the rates.
So we're going to kind of work through the process before we come up with something more definitive there.
Obviously we are looking for longer-term contracts associated with that project.
And then any I guess for Dave big picture thoughts around ways to use the integrated model for this project? Certainly Holly as we've touched on in other quarters and even in our small group meetings talking about leveraging across our businesses.
We've highlighted helping out well pads at Fidelity through our materials group.
The refinery I think highlights all business lines having a hand in that.
I would say we were just trying to see some momentum when you think about this kind of a project.
We've got environmental permitting regulatory experience at a number of our business lines.
We've got construction expertise and knowledge as well.
We're probably going to need one would likely think a number of spreads when you put this we say we're going to build this in one construction season.
It's probably not going to be just with one contract there as well.
So I think it's got potential plus we have some of the intelligence that we gather through our E&amp;P group as to the oil activity and the drilling activity going out on west as well.
So I think it's inherent with some of all of our lines of business a project like that.
I would also mention that the $650 million to $700 million we've indicated to the project scope would be like this is not included in our five year capital program of $3.9 billion.
And so it really goes above and beyond that from an investment perspective.
And then just one final one for me I promise I'll stop.
The last question asked about the assumptions around the EBITDA from the refining project any idea Doran on timing for providing some of those assumptions? Could we see them at the Analyst Day? Holly where we're at right now is providing the guidance that's out there $70 million to $90 million.
I would say that's little uncomfortable at this particular point.
But obviously we view this as a very strong project with reserve potentials on a $70 million to $90 million EBITDA for a $300 million (inaudible) payback is very strong.
There are three products that Steve talked about that these all are the pretty transparent markets and the import side for the crude is pretty transparent.
Naptha is somewhat of a transparent market too.
And ATV is something we feel good about our agreement there in terms of the offtake of ATV side.
I think in terms of economics that is much as I can maybe help you in terms of trying to evaluate that input on the crude side relative to the economics will come off the back-end of the plan for those two types of business.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Ellinghaus with Williams Capital.
Can you characterize the quarter from the LDC side? How close to normal did it look? Frank do you want to take that one.
The gas side experienced all across our utility we actually experienced for the quarter a little cooler than normal temperatures.
But you have to put that in perspective the quarter isn't the greatest quarter for heat load within the gas segment of our business.
That cooler weather had then also led to a little bit lower on our electric sale side.
So all in all it's a quarter that is fairly typical.
The weather pattern definitely impacts our ability.
We look forward to continued normal weather program and pattern through the rest of the year.
Doran the other segment has been sort of producing small income pretty consistently.
This quarter it was little different.
Can you talk about where that came from? Chris our Chief Accounting Officer Nicole Kivisto is ready to address that question.
Chris basically we've got a number of items going through there of a small nature.
We've got our captive insurance program.
We've got a small investment in international assets.
And then we also have company profit going through there this quarter.
And so in terms of the delta between last quarter and this quarter the difference is really the intercompany profit.
So as you have heard us kind of talk about leveraging across our businesses.
That really is the driver been in terms of intercompany profit.
So it's just something that evens out across the segments then? Correct.
Yes.
So the profit is recorded at the segment level and then eliminated to get to consolidated.
Kent can you talk a little bit about what you have been doing with your shut-in gas production? Just as a reminder in May of 2012 we shut-in in the neighborhood of $20 million cubic feet a day in our Baker and Bowdoin as a result of low gas prices.
At that point of time it was about $2.
In the first part of June of this year we started return some of that production back on and I think now we've got in the range of maybe $10 million to $12 million cubic feet a day back on production.
And we'll continue through the rest of the summer ramping up more of it.
I'm not sure we'll get to the full $20 million bring back on but we'll bring a good chunk of it on.
In anticipation of that we actually went ahead and hedged some of this production from September forward at $4.13.
So we sort of feel good about shutting it in and then turn it around and how we're bringing it back on it at double the price.
Dave you sound a lot more optimistic on construction.
Can you just give us a little flavor for what you are thinking? Well certainly.
I think the backlogs almost speak for themselves.
We're in a $2 billion on a combined basis.
You heard the question early about the wet spring and may be a little surprise at still how well some our materials group did.
In my comments I mentioned Northern California Dave Barney mentioned the Intermountain region.
I mean we have a presence down in Texas.
I think it also helps to kind of show some of the geographic diversity that while we did have a record wet weather that was negatively affected North Dakota parts of South Dakota Montana some of that diversity is helpful there.
On that construction services group we mentioned across all lines of business had a good quarter.
And while we do some outside line construction work we've had inside line of business.
We do industrial.
We've got our materials and our rental and our leasing business so far as what we have got there for transmission line.
So I kind of like the diversity.
And I also like the backlog.
I think a real key for us thinking about going forward is all that backlog how much cooperating weather we might get in that early fourth quarter.
I really like our view right now.
We've had a nice string of a very conducive weather for our construction businesses really in all of our markets.
So I don't know but that's sounds optimistic.
I think that's very realistic.
But I really like our backlog.
And topline has actually shrunken some of our construction and the bottomline is growing.
And that some of that cost containment in the savings will realize though the middle part of the income statements.
So it's attribute to Barney and his team and Pete and his team I would say.
And you were talking about the mix increasing on the private side.
Do you see that as a trend that will continue? Certainly I think we peaked out back in mid-2 000s at almost 40% private.
So it's really got a long way to go to get to there.
But I like the movement we've seen from between 8% 9% a year ago to now 13% on the private side.
So I'd like to see maybe a little bit that way but kind of measured growth there is fine.
And again the backlog is strong.
So the mix is nice moving in the private way record DOT budgets in North Dakota are kind of right in our backyard as well.
So we kind of like all of those opportunities.
Our next question comes from line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Just a quick follow-up it's tough to find much to nitpick on here.
But I did notice the construction services backlog ticked down a bit sequentially bookings down by a bit more sequentially.
What should we read into that if anything? And if you do expect that trend to kind of reverse going forward maybe could you comment on what end-markets you are most optimistic on going forward? We are very confident.
As Dave mentioned all of our areas are up as far as performance.
On our backlog we see increased opportunities in the outside line construction especially in the west and Intermountain regions.
Our inside businesses in the manufacturing sectors are also strong.
We also see our equipment and supply business improving as well and also industrial.
So all segments we see with strong opportunities in market gains.
We are confident that our teams are positioned ready for growth and then also to be able to execute the work profitably so all areas that we're seeing are strong.
And we've got the people ready and positioned and the financial backing to execute.
(Operator Instructions) At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Well again we appreciate your interest in MDU Resources and for tuning into today's earnings call.
We're certainly pleased with our performance year-to-date.
And we continue to be focused really though on execution executing the growth opportunities that are really right in front of us.
I see all of our business units are working together to add shareholder value.
And again we appreciate your participation on the call today.
And we'll keep you updated as we move throughout the year.
And maybe just as a reminder we do have an Analyst Day scheduled in the Portland for September 18 actually 19 is the day for the presentations.
If you're able to make that trip we'd certainly invite your participation.
And again thank you for your interest in MDU Resources.
This concludes today's MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Molly and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today through 11.59 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 15th.
The conference ID number for the replay is 74400416.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 74400416.
The number to dial for the replay is 1 (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
I would now like to turn the call over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you Mr.
Schwartz.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
This conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you’d like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to our conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Nicole Kivisto Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources; Frank Morehouse President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; and Kent Wells Vice Chairman of MDU Resources and President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration and Production.
With that I’ll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Thank you Doran and good morning.
Thank you for joining us today to discuss third quarter results.
We are pleased with the momentum of the first half of the year that has carried us into the second half.
Adjusted earnings for the quarter were $92.3 million or $0.49 per share compared to $71.9 million or $0.38 per share last year a 29% increase.
Our business plans and strategic capital deployment are yielding desired results really across the Board.
As I believe we are doing a better job of executing our growth plans.
Our E&amp;P segment achieved 37% oil production growth which resulted in 83% earnings increase compared to last year.
Our Construction Group continued its recovery with an 18% earnings increase and only 10% revenue growth.
And our Electric segment of the Utility Group enjoyed its best quarter ever and in our Pipeline Midstream Group was able to boost its earnings by $2 million as well.
Now moving on to our individual operations I’d like to start with our Construction Materials and Service companies.
On a combined basis that group earned $61.4 million.
This is the best quarter on record for the group since its peak back in 2007.
The increase was primarily the result of higher equipment sales and rental margins higher workloads and margins in a number of our markets and higher aggregate and asphalt margins and volumes as well.
We are pleased with the positive momentum we are seeing at our Construction businesses.
Backlogs are up at both Materials and Services with combined backlog now at $958 million $124 million higher than last year at this time.
North Dakota continues to play an important role for the group with backlog of approximately $157 million compared to only $65 million last year.
Included in our current amount is $55 million for our North Dakota Highway project that was announced back in September.
This was our largest road construction project in Knife River’s history.
Alaska and Hawaii continue to be good markets for us with strong presence on our materials side.
And we’ve really begun to hit our stride in Texas.
We think the region has strong potential to grow with its robust economy and rapid population growth.
The Northwest is also an important area for us that is home to much of our inside electric work that has been key to our service group’s recent earnings growth as well.
Development by the high-tech industry in the region has offered us a good amount of quality work for both our Services and Material companies.
The region also serves as one of our outlets for our Specialty Equipment and Supply Sales and Rental business which has been a consistent performer for us really across the U.S.
That business is also a useful gauge as a predictor of future activity for our outside Electric businesses as well.
On our second quarter call I mentioned our combined construction group had its best first half of the year since 2009 and now three-fourths through the year we’ve improved our position and we’re going to have our best rate since 2007 and the third quarter marked our eighth consecutive quarter of improved year-over-year results.
The combined construction business have earned a $91.5 million on a 12 trailing month basis and a 29% increase over 2012 earnings.
Of course the fourth quarter is always heavily dependent on weather especially for our Materials segment.
We’re excited about the performance of our construction materials and service groups -- this company and we’ve got good reason to believe that with our 1.1 billion tons of aggregate reserves the teams we have in place as well as our improved cost structure we really think we’re in a pretty good position as we look ahead.
Now I’d like to move on to our Utility group.
Our Electric Utility business reported record quarterly earnings of $11.4 million a $400 000 increase over last year.
This was largely the result of continued economic growth in the Bakken area contributing to a 5% increase in electric sales.
Our Natural Gas Utility business had a normal seasonal loss of $11.2 million which was $2.4 million greater than for the same period last year.
This increase loss was largely the result of higher O&amp;M expense related to increase payroll costs for employee additions to further support customer growth along with pipeline safety.
Customer growth continues to be strong for both the Electric and Natural Gas segments with counts rising 2.4% and 1.8% overall respectively.
The strong growth was again led by the Bakken area where electric customer counts grew 6% and natural gas customers increased 5%.
While the growth comes -- with the growth comes the need to expand and improve infrastructure.
In the Bakken region alone we are investing approximately $70 million this year to serve that growing customer base.
More broadly our overall utility CapEx projection for this year is in excess of $280 million and approximately $1 billion over the five-year forecast.
With that investment we anticipate rate base growth of approximately $400 million over these next several years.
Work is well underway on two major projects included in this forecast.
Construction is ongoing at our $77 million 88-megawatt natural gas turbine located just across the river here in Mandan.
That project’s in service date is third quarter of 2014 and work is also underway on the environmental upgrades required at our Big Stone Station for which our share of the cost is estimated right at $100 million.
Our ability to recover the cost of these necessary investments as well as others on a timely basis is very important.
We have rate cases outstanding totaling approximately $10 million annually.
In aggregate we have interim relief of approximately $6 million while these cases continue through their settlement discussions just yesterday our South Dakota settlement filing was approved for a $900 000 annual increase to take effect here just on December 1st.
In October the North Dakota commission approved the advanced determination of prudence for required pollution control equipment at our Lewis &amp; Clark station estimated costs for this project are $27.7 million.
And we’ve also made an application filed with our North Dakota for approval of an environmental cost recovery rider for ongoing costs being incurred related to our upgrade at our Big Stone Station.
We look forward to continued growth at our utility through smart solid investments that are necessary to meet our customers’ needs.
Now moving on to our Pipeline and Energy Services Group we reported earnings of $5.3 million up $2 million from a year ago.
This group benefited from higher volumes at its Pronghorn natural gas and oil midstream assets acquired last year as well as lower O&amp;M expenses.
The group has a goal to double its invested capital within the next five years.
Included in this is the Dakota Prairie Refinery will clearly be a large part of that effort.
Construction is progressing and despite the extraordinary amount of rain that has fallen at the plant site we remain on schedule for a projected in-service date late 2014.
EBITDA for the first year of operation is projected to be in that $70 million to $90 million range and that’s to be split equally between us and Calumet.
Other projects slated for 2014 include a pipeline serving the Garden Creek II plant that will be added over 200 MMcf of Bakken related capacity along with a 16-mile loop to increase capacity delivery into our Black Hills region and a 24-mile gathering trunkline for processing facilities out in the Paradox for our Fidelity E&amp;P group.
And then to give you an update to the group’s proposed 400-mile natural gas pipeline from the Bakken to Western Minnesota at a projected cost of $650 million to $700 million it would be by far the largest pipeline project the company has undertaken.
The pipeline would increase takeaway capacity out of the Bakken to accommodate rapidly growing natural gas production in the region which recently surpassed one Bcf on a daily basis.
We’re continuing to evaluate routes to give customers access to broader market diversity and to serve industrial loads in Eastern North Dakota.
Assuming sufficient commitments and receipt of all necessary permits and regulatory approvals construction on the pipeline could begin as early as 2016.
In addition yesterday WBI Energy Transmission filed its first rate case increase since 1999 requesting an increase of $28.9 million annually.
The proposed effective date of the rates is December 1st.
So when we look at the number of midstream projects already underway at our pipeline group along and the potential projects to come we see and are excited about their future.
Now moving on to our E&amp;P $group that would be Fidelity oil and gas where adjusted earnings were $25.3 million compared to $13.8 million just a year ago that’s an 83% increase.
The increase resulted primarily from 37% higher oil production.
Quarterly oil production record was set with 1.25 million barrels produced in our third quarter.
Again leading the way were the Bakken and Paradox Basin plays with 41% and 272% gains year-over-year respectively.
Lease operating costs were $7.74 per BOE down from $8.77 a year ago down actually 11%.
In the Bakken we currently have two rigs drilling one each in Mountrail and Stark Counties.
We continue to realize well costs efficiency gains are in line with or ahead actually of industry average for our spud to total depth times in both counties.
In Mountrail County we recently completed our first well utilizing a new completion technique using cemented lines to pinpoint our stimulations.
Similar practices have been proven effective by other industry players in the area and the results so far are very encouraging.
In Richland County we continue and are evaluating the Red River Horizon which has yielded positive results for other producers.
We will keep you updated on that as we continue our evaluation there.
We anticipate our total spend on our Bakken acreage this year to be approximately $210 million.
The Paradox continues to play a larger role in the success of our E&amp;P Group and is likely to do so for a long time.
In the third quarter of 2012 we’re excited to talk about the potential of the paradox and it was largely just that potential.
At that time it accounted for just 6% of our total oil production yet showed plenty of promise with the 12-1 well having just come online.
Now if we fast-forward a year and the 12-1 well has produced over 0.5 million barrels of oil and the basin now accounts for 17% of our total oil production.
In addition to the 12-1 which is still flowing I might add at 1000 barrels per day we have found success with a number of other wells including most recently the Can Creek unit 36-1 which has been flowing consistently above 1 250 barrels per day for the past three weeks with a flowing pressure of about 3 400 psi.
We expect to invest about $80 million in the Paradox this year.
We plan to add a second rig there within the next two to three months and begin testing up whole clastics so stay tuned for more on that.
We are on course to reach our upwardly revised oil production target of 30% to 35% increase for the full year of 2013.
We expect oil production growth in the fourth quarter to be similar to sequential second to third quarter production growth which would put it in that 10% to 15% increase range over the fourth quarter last year.
So as we look forward our E&amp;P Group is continuing its focus on repeatability as demonstrated with the 36-1 in the Paradox Basin.
The application of new completion techniques in the Bakken well cost efficiencies and opportunities for expanding acreage ownership as well.
Returning now to a consolidated discussion we are pleased with the performance of our diversified group of companies so far this year.
Considering our earnings to this point we are increasing our 2013 adjusted earnings-per-share guidance range from $1.35 to $1.45 up from $1.30 to $1.40.
Each of our business units has positive momentum on its side heading into the home stretch of the year.
The Construction Group is well on its way to an outstanding year and at this point weather will be a primary determining factor as to just how good it will end up.
The utility group is working hard to continue providing excellent service and increased capacity as customer accounts and infrastructure needs increase.
At the pipeline group we are expanding our existing asset system in and around the Bakken while also expanding into liquid-based midstream projects like our Dakota Prairie Refinery.
And our E&amp;P is executing their strategy to deploy capital into high-returning oil plays to take advantage of commodity pricing that has shown consistent oil production growth in line with our estimates.
Our capital budget for this year is approximately $820 million and our five year forecast includes nearly $4 billion in planned investments.
We are financially strong.
Cash flows from the operating activities are up $100 million year-to-date and we do have adequate liquidity.
And has been the case for the past 76 years we are committed to paying a competitive dividend for our shareholders as well.
We are looking forward to closing out the year strong and what 2014 and beyond has in store for MDU Resources.
We will provide plan -- we will plan to provide our assumptions for next year in our year-end earnings report in early February.
Again thank you for your time today.
And we would be happy to open the lines to questions that you might have at this time.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Good morning and congrats on a nice quarter.
Hey good morning Matt.
Thank you very much.
First question is on the guidance.
You’ve still got a $0.10 range and you started the year with $0.15 but you now just have one quarter to go.
You pointed to commodity prices and weather as key variables could you comment on how those factors have trended a month into the quarter here? Thanks Matt.
Repeat the question.
As you noted we did start the year with a $0.15 range.
And as we have upped it for a couple of quarters now and narrowed it to the current $1.35 to $1.45.
You noted whether if we commented on that certainly commodity prices.
I would also comment that we still have some differentials particularly in the Bakken that’s part of our -- we need to think about that for the rest of the year.
I would say it’s somewhat varied when we think about October.
We’ve got some weather that’s probably been favorable in the further northwest of us.
It’s been somewhat normal I would say from the utility perspective maybe more in the Dakotas.
We continue to see a fair amount of rain here in the Dakotas which is kind of unusual.
Yet offsetting that out in the Pacific Northwest it’s been almost drier than normal.
So I would say it’s kind of varied one way or the other on the weather.
Certainly we can all see what the commodity prices are doing and then differentials would be kind of one of the key elements I would have as a takeaway.
But certainly we do want to finish the year strong.
Thanks.
And as a follow-up to that just on the differentials.
The differential you guys see seems to bounce around quite a bit quarter-to-quarter and seemed a bit wide this quarter.
Could you comment on kind of the reason for that differentiate between maybe the Paradox versus the Bakken if you can? And talk about what your expectations are going forward? Sure.
Kent is going to take that one.
Yeah Matt good question.
So let’s start with the Bakken because I think that’s the one that’s known better.
If you go back to fourth quarter a year ago and even first quarter this year the differential was more like $5.
And then we’ve seen it just gradually increase and we’re seeing more pressure today than we even saw in the third quarter on that with that differential getting up in the $12 to $15 range.
And I think there’s a number of factors driving it but its all supply and demand.
And with the difference in Brent and WTI which makes rail more economic then it takes some of the pressure off.
And we’re seeing while WTI prices have come down the spread between WTI and Brent is widening back again.
So I think that’s helpful.
So maybe there’s a top end on where we’re currently seeing differentials right now but I don’t know.
I mean it’s really hard to predict that.
The Paradox historically has been much more stable than that number and we’ll see where that goes going forward.
Thanks.
And then just one on the construction side with respect to margins in the construction services business.
I guess in contrast to the materials side where you’ve got kind of a lot of headroom versus prior peak margins.
On the services side you’ve kind of been at new highs over the past couple of years.
Could you comment on the ability to continue to grow margins and services over the next couple of years? Thanks for the question.
This is Jeff.
We don’t have any guidance for 2014 but I can tell you that we still anticipate pressure on margins.
But we offset this pressure with our operational efficiencies.
We utilize technology appropriately.
Our planning and execution of our work is more diligent than it has in the past had real good three quarters so far and we’ve put greater improvements in place.
We look forward to finishing out this year and also look forward to next.
Thanks guys.
I’ve got some more questions but I’ll hop back in the queue.
Okay.
Thank you Matt.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Holly.
Maybe a couple for Kent.
Can you talk about the Paradox well? Is there anything you learned differently on this one? Just kind of give us some details and then maybe the plan as we look to add the second rig and over the remainder of the year? Yeah happy to do that Holly.
So obviously we continue to be very encouraged with the Paradox.
I just want to keep reinforcing what a special well the 12-1 is.
More than a year later and it’s still flowing 1 000 barrels a day.
That’s pretty unique and talks a lot to the potential of this basin.
The 36-1 well which is flowing at 1 250 barrels a day at very high pressure it was a challenging well to drill very high pressure.
It’s the longest lateral well we’ve drilled to date but its early days on production.
So we’ll see where that stacks up in the sort of hierarchy of exceptional wells that were there.
Well in terms of the second rig sometime in the next two to three months we expect to have a second rig working.
We’ll use it to start to explore all the Uphole Clastics that we’ve talked about in the past as well as accelerate development drilling in the Cane Creek further west into the West Fertilizer area.
So we’ll sort of have a systematic approach of continuing to progress to this field.
But I would say we just get more and more and more encouraged but since this play eluded our industry for four decades we are just humbled to not say much.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
And then maybe I think there was going to be a Three Forks well in Mountrail County? Do you have results on that one? Yes we do.
We’ve done one well of our -- I think we’ve talked in the past that we’ve got this three-well pilot that we’re doing.
We’ve got one done.
We’ll do the next two in the back half of November.
We are really encouraged what we’ve seen.
We’ve only got three weeks of production on it but it’s very encouraging compared to what we’ve done in the Three Forks before.
So when we do the next two wells if that all goes well that sets us up for another 60-plus Three Forks locations in Mountrail County.
But I think we need to wait until we see the next two wells.
In terms of the technology we’ve gone to cemented liners very similar philosophically to what the rest of the industry is doing increasing frack stages.
There’s a few things that we’re doing a little different on the design in particular and how we execute it that we’re going to keep confidential at this time.
But I think this is going to really help going forward.
Perfect.
And then maybe moving on to the proposed pipeline project for Steve.
I know you talked about new routes.
I guess what’s been the feedback thus far? This is kind of the first time that you’ve thrown out there looking at kind of redesigning the routes.
So just kind of curious as to what you’re hearing and seeing out there.
Sure Holly.
This is Steve.
As we’ve gone out to the marketplace with this project we’ve gotten good feedback both from a producer perspective as well as from an end-user perspective.
I think coupled that with all of the continued drilling in the Bakken and we’ve now reached what I think one Bcf of production coming from the Bakken.
I think that all lends real credibility to this project.
As we met with the marketplace and kind of considered various things certainly diversity is important and so we are looking at ways of trying to provide some diversity in terms of the end-use markets.
So we’re looking at tie in the Great Lakes and TransCanada as well as Viking which has always been part of our plan.
There is some growing industrial load in Eastern North Dakota that we’re taking into consideration there to kind of bring that all together.
We’re kind of just stepping back and looking at some alternatives really to meet the needs of the marketplace both producers as well as end-users.
So we’re going to continue to work through that and work with our customers before we make our final determination on that route.
And still a December open season timing? Yeah probably sometime in there Holly.
I think what’s important is that we get our route kind of laid out and have enough time to have vetted that further with our customers then we’d be prepared to take that out so.
Okay.
So there is still ebbs and flows.
Maybe one more I guess for Kent.
Kent the gas production has held up certainly a lot better than we were expecting.
Is there anything in the Bakken wells or anything that maybe is causing? I know you had some curtailed production that you were going to bring on.
But anything that’s maybe making that you -- the forecast for the decline is less than it was so anything to point out there? Yeah.
So Holly we did bring some of the Baker and Bowdoin production that we had curtailed back on.
We haven’t brought it all back on but that is probably the primary reason why our production is a little better.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you Holly.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Most of my follow-ups were actually just asked and answered.
But just on the FERC rate case could you give us a little sense of the procedural timeline there and when you’d expect a decision? Sure we filed that case just yesterday.
We requested the rates to go into effect December 1.
I think our expectations there is the FERC will typically suspend that and by kind of the rules are able to suspend that for a five-month period.
So that would move kind of on effective date to May 1 of 2014 at which time if we’ve been able to resolve the case those rates would go into effect.
Otherwise our as filed rates would likely go into effect subject to refund.
Great.
Thank you.
That’s all I had.
Thank you Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of Vedula Murti with CDP Capital.
Good morning.
Good morning Vedula.
I’d say a couple of things.
One just wondering if we try to look a little bit forward into 2014 without a formal capital program type of commitment or anything like that given what you are seeing both in the Paradox as well as in the Bakken can you give a sense as to what type of potential capital acceleration could be in the cards given kind of what you’re seeing and what you might be hoping for? Vedula I’ll take that one.
I think certainly we’ve talked about we’ll provide a little more guidance you might say about February 1st.
As we think about 2014 I know you’re trying to kind of see where we’re headed here.
I would guide your eyes to our five-year CapEx that we’ve talked about which we’ve said about $820 million this year is our expected and we’re looking at about around $4 billion over the next five years.
So if you were to just kind of look at that on an even basis even it would seem that we continue our investment at or about where we’re at and that doesn’t include certain specific big projects as we’ve noted even with Steve’s Dakota pipeline project for otherwise that’s not included in there.
We’ve stated that otherwise too.
So I’d say stay tuned more for the February 1st call but clearly when we think we’re adding a second rig in the Paradox here in the next couple of three months we need to allow for that in our CapEx budget.
I mean but are you -- are based on kind of the analysis that you are doing on the wells and kind of potential you’re seeing.
I mean is there any type of a probability for a true step function change going forward in terms of capital acceleration or not particularly? Yeah.
Vedula it’s Kent.
We are really encouraged by what we’re seeing in the Paradox.
And so -- but we also think the systematic and strategic approach we put in place so far has served us very well and we’re going to continue to do that.
So we’re going to go to a second rig and we’re going to follow that plan and to the extent that that leads us to add a third rig we’ll do that down the road.
I think in the Bakken the jury is still a little bit out.
We’re very encouraged with what we’ve seen on the first well.
If the next two wells give us similar then it certainly gives us that opportunity to -- I don’t know if I’d want to call it a step change in capital but certainly we could increase the capital.
But we will look across the entire corporation and see what makes sense.
When I mean with step change I’m saying -- I’m suggesting that if the five-year -- the residual to five-year programs are earning more like $900 million to $1 billion a year roughly give or take that whether you see the opportunity to maybe -- particularly given the flexibility on the balance sheet to move to like a one-two to one-four a year average kind of.
That type of step change function was what I was implying.
Vedula this is Doran.
How I respond to that again -- I think to Kent’s point really across all of our business units we see opportunities to invest Dave mentioned too within our existing capital budget.
Looking forward five years organically we don’t put M&amp;A into our budget.
That would be incremental to our CapEx forecast.
But clearly we see the opportunities to grow going forward with our existing capital budget .We’re probably not in a position right now today to indicate whether or not that may change.
That is our current five-year forecast and we’ll -- we’ll provide more detail I think on whether or not that’s changed with the February release.
What I can say though is as we think about our financing plans for the year as we’ve talked about through the year I think one of the things we think about is how do we finance ourselves going forward.
Certainly we’ve exceeded our original plans.
We’ve increased our guidance twice this year that’s generated some incremental cash flow.
We’ve managed our working capital.
Although we’re committed to a strong balance sheet we have used some debt to the point that you made Vedula.
We’ve managed our CapEx.
And we’ve sold some non-strategic assets such as $30 million that we put into the news release at our oil and gas business.
And then as we’ve said throughout the year we are doing all we can to find other sources of capital before having to issue equity.
Today we haven’t issued any equity.
So as we think about our capital going forward and as we think about the opportunities that we have specifically identified within our capital budget we are definitely in growth mode.
As it relates to the financing of our capital if we continue to see good organic or potentially even currently unidentified M&amp;A growth opportunities that generate long-term value to the shareholders that are accretive and have potential to grow over time.
If we needed to issue equity to fund a portion of those opportunities we would issue the equity.
But as it stands right now we are standing by our five-year forecast at this time.
Okay.
I guess one last thing following up on your last comment there.
Clearly you’ve got a very strong currency.
I’m wondering as you evaluate things going forward in terms of financing given where we see other valuations within the capital markets.
Any -- has the opportunity for any type of a corporate restructuring possibly become more attractive or more likely going forward? Because in the past the integrated model has -- one that has served you quite well.
But you felt that if I’m paraphrasing properly that you didn’t see any particular advantage to any type of restructuring versus the integrated model as of now.
Vedula this is Dave.
I would say as we think about our diversified model and I’ve been in this new role just not quite a year now.
And I’ve conveyed to others in the marketplace that I think we’ve got real potential to kind of leverage across our business units probably to a greater extent than maybe what has historically happened.
I think we are seeing more and more of that.
The team that you’re hearing from today is very engaged in leveraging those expertise contacts customer needs information ways in which we can really further I guess enhance the business of each of our lines of business.
So that being said we have in the past made some specific restructuring.
I mean we once upon a time had a merchant business that we sold in mid-2000s.
We were in coal.
We’ve transferred that to really aggregate lines of business.
So I think we’ve got to be open to those ideas but the long and short of that is I think we’re just starting to hit a little bit of our stride on working across our business units.
And I see more leverage there that we can gain then by spinning or doing something else I think maybe is what you’re referring to.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Vedula.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Vedula actually hit most of my questions.
But just since I have got you there’s been this lawsuit associated with gas flaring in the Bakken.
And I don’t think you guys were named in it but I was wondering if you could discuss what the -- if there’s any potential issues there with respect to you guys.
I mean are you flaring a considerable amount of gas and have you guys been approached or has there been any issue there with respect to you guys? Yes Paul this is Kent.
We are not named in that lawsuit.
We look to gather all the gas we can.
It’s good quality gas and it has value.
And we’re gathering almost all of our gas.
It’s just a couple of very isolated wells that we aren’t able -- there’s no pipelines in the area to get to it.
So we don’t expect to be a part of that.
Okay.
And then with respect to Holly’s question on the I guess technology this new technology that you guys are deploying with respect to your wells.
Could you give us a little bit of a flavor as to just quantitatively what the impact might be that you’re seeing with respect to this technology in terms of production or cost? Yes I mean it’s a very good question.
We’re three weeks in on one well and I’m really reluctant to say because it’s really encouraging.
But I want to hold off until I’ve got a little more data.
My reservoir engineers would really be unhappy with me to say too much on that.
So I think let’s wait until we’ve got more than one well and we’ve got more data on it.
And then I think we can say look this is really a significant difference and it justifies aggressive development in the Three Forks.
Okay.
Well thanks so much and congratulations.
Thanks Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with DA Davidson.
Hi Good morning.
Good morning Brent.
Yes on the construction materials side if I back out the big project in North Dakota from backlog would the private sector have represented a larger percentage of the business? And I guess what I’m getting at is kind of what the momentum you’re seeing on the private side of that business right now? So Paul sorry Brent if I got your question right you’re saying of $157 million or so the $55 million if we back that out of the remaining I’ll say $102 million what’s our split in public -- I’m trying to get your question a little more.
Yes if I backed out the -- I guess the large order out of backlog from North Dakota would the private sector have been a bigger percentage of I guess the business here in the quarter? If I’m getting what you’re saying right Brent we’re still trending about that 13% private work.
Obviously we’re picking up a larger portion of public work when you have a $55 million project you pick up and put on the backlog.
But we’re still trending about that 13% private right now.
Okay perfect.
That’s what I was getting at.
And then on the concrete portion of the business has been growing slower than some of the other product areas any reason behind that? Our concrete is up in the quarter ready mix by 10%.
Is it? Okay.
And then I guess in construction overall… Excuse me that’s 2.5% Brent not 10%.
Okay.
Any reason behind that? It looks like your aggregates and asphalt volumes a little stronger.
Well we had a little bit of weather in September as far as pretty wet weather in the Northwest region one of the wettest Septembers on record.
And that’s obviously going to have something to do with that downturn.
Got you.
And then I guess construction overall between materials and services.
I know we have to wait on 2014 guidance here but how are you thinking about next year kind of given the funnel of work you’re seeing today.
Obviously you kind of had some certainty out in Washington.
Are you getting more confidence that we see some acceleration in both of the businesses next year or do we kind of think about it at the run rate of growth that we’re seeing? Well I don’t think we’re going to talk about next year today Brent but stay tuned.
That’s all I can tell you.
I guess I would add to that Brent we reported.
Look at our 12 trailing we continue to gain on that on an earnings basis.
I think we’re up almost $10 million 12 trailing months earnings between the two construction businesses just this past quarter and we saw about that same type of increase in earnings from the previous quarter.
So to me that gives me a little bit of at least trajectory here you might say.
Yet I mean there’s a lot to be still -- when we think about 2014 we just really don’t want to go there yet today on this call.
We’ll get back to you on that one.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you Brent.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 1 p.m.
Eastern time today through 11.59 p.m.
Eastern time on November 15th.
The conference ID number for the replay is 74400416.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 74400416.
Your next question comes from the line of Rosemarie Tevelow with Tevelow Associates.
Good morning.
Hello.
Good morning Rosemarie.
My question went along the lines of Vedula’s.
Starting with the five-year plan that you have for capital spending and realizing that a lot of things will change in between now and then.
I was wondering in the overall outlook what is the split? Do you have a split with how much outside debt you might need? How much internal generation that kind of thing.
I mean even just rule of -- I shouldn’t say rule of thumb we don’t go by rules of thumb.
But general outlook for what’s your plan is as you think about this level of construction and financing.
How are you going to pay for it? Yes Rosemary this is Doran.
I would say our first goal to pay for our CapEx plans as we go forward based on the five-year forecast as it stands today is to pay for as much of that with internally generated cash flows as possible.
And as we put capital into place for example put capital in for the refinery today that’s capital today.
But the cash flows start -- and again that $79 million of EBITDA is pretty significant.
Those start in 2015 as that plant comes online.
So as we deploy capital utility -- the same thing there we deploy capital get that into our rate base it starts generating earnings and cash flows.
As we look to the five-year forecast we have an increasing stream of operating cash flows that essentially takes up the vast portion of our CapEx needs.
That’s good.
In addition to that we do -- we are committed to a strong balance sheet but we are forecasting we would use leverage in that forecast.
We have already sold some assets as a part of an ongoing review of our strategic and non-strategic asset portfolio.
Kent in his business has sold $30 million as we announced.
This year we continue to do that on an ongoing basis.
That’s a source of proceeds.
Rosemary we have talked about -- again I alluded to earlier we’ve taken a hard look at issuing equity only as a method of last resort after we’ve exhausted all other options.
As we go forward we take a look at our forecast.
Obviously again operating cash flows covers a lot but we maintain a strong balance sheet.
We issue some debt.
But we are in growth mode and we’re seeing good growth opportunities going forward.
Now we’re not in a position to update our five-year capital forecast but as we go forward we’ll maintain the strength of our balance sheet.
And if we see good projects out there that are accretive to you as the shareholder they generate incremental EPS they generate incremental cash flow and they’re good value over the long term.
We would look absent in an opportunity to fund it from another source to issue equity to fund those types of opportunities going forward.
So it would be a mix of potential levers that we would pull equity being the last lever to fund ourselves going forward.
But it’s a great position to be in right now at a BBB+ rating and a strong balance sheet to think about going back into growth mode here as we take a look at the next five years.
Thank you Doran.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Well thank you and certainly we’re pleased with our performance on a year-to-date basis.
And we do continue to focus on execution of the growth opportunities that are really right in front of us.
Our business units are working together to add shareholder value.
And we do appreciate your participation on the call today.
And we will keep you updated as we move throughout the rest of the year.
Again thank you for your interest in MDU Resources.
Operator? This concludes today’s MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group 2013 Year End and 2014 Guidance Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 1 PM Eastern Time today through 11.59 PM Eastern Time on February 18.
The conference ID number for the replay is 29265471.
Again the conference ID for the replay is 29265471.
The number to dial in for the replay is 1 (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you Mr.
Schwartz.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
This conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you would like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to our conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Frank Morehouse President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; Kent Wells Vice Chairman of MDU Resources and President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration and Production; and Nathan Ring Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I will turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Thank you Doran and good morning.
Thank you for your interest in MDU Resources.
We are excited to be here today to discuss our 2013 results as well as our 2014 outlook.
2013 was a very successful year for MDU Resources and its shareholders with each of our businesses segments contributing to that success.
Our construction business has led the way continuing their strong resurgence surpassing $100 million in earnings for the year for the first time since their combined record year of 2007.
Fourth quarter marked the ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year earning improvements for the group.
Our utility had a record fourth quarter and the year of continued growing past 1 million customers throughout year.
The performance was largely a result of continued strong customer growth led by activity in and around the Bakken and significantly colder weather across our service territory during the winter months.
The pipeline had a solid year with the full year benefit from the Pronghorn assets that were purchased in May of 2012.
Our E&amp;P group had great results on the strength of a 30% increase in oil production compared to the prior year.
Further progress was made balancing its production portfolio with oil now representing 47% of total production in 2013 approximately double what it was in 2010.
These combined business unit successes resulted in adjusted earnings for the year of $289.9 million or $1.53 per share compared to $218.9 million or $1.16 per share last year up 32% increase.
And shareholders received a 48% total return on the year.
Now I would like to turn our attention to a more detailed look at the results of our individual operations beginning with our Construction business which posted earnings of $103.1 million in 2013.
Earnings grew by 46% over the prior year on only 8% revenue growth.
Both our materials business and our service business had strong success.
On the materials side higher margins and volumes led to an $18.5 million earnings increase compared to the prior year.
The materials segment continues to see improvements across many of our markets and backlog is up $50 million from the prior year to now $456 million.
We are seeing good levels of bid-letting ahead of this year’s construction season last year presenting good opportunities for expansion in our backlog position.
The activity in North Dakota continues to increase and we are very pleased with nearly $100 million of work we have on the books there.
Turning to our services group we had record earnings of $52.5 million in 2013 surpassing our peak year earnings of 2008.
The results included outstanding performances by the Specialty Equipment sales and rental and our inside electrical divisions.
Services backlog is now at $459 million up 41% over a year ago.
Our construction businesses have shown resiliency over the last number of years.
Our focus on lowering cost structures during the economic downturn contributed to our success this last year as SG&amp;A costs remained basically flat while earnings increased 46%.
We are confident there continues to be opportunity for earnings growth at our construction group without the need for significant capital investment or material increases to our cost base.
National construction indicators have remained largely positive for month-to-month driving improving markets.
This along with our lower cost structure and strong backlogs have us optimistic that success will continue for our construction group as we move into 2014.
Moving on to our utility group where the addition of 21 000 customers or an increase of just slightly over 2% along with colder winter weather contributed to record earnings of $72.5 million for the year.
Our electric utility business reported record earnings for 2013 that included a 6% increase in electric retail sales largely the result of continued economic growth in the Bakken area.
Our natural gas utility business reported earnings of $37.7 million compared to $29.4 million in the prior year.
The increase was largely the result of colder weather in the winter months across our eight state service territory.
Temperatures for the year averaged 25% colder for our Montana-Dakota group and Great Plains and 20% colder for Intermountain gas company.
2013 results saw a busy regulatory year for this group with gas rate cases approved in North Dakota Montana as well is in South Dakota.
In aggregate the three cases will provide relief of approximately $6.7 million annually.
Additionally the North Dakota Public Service Commission approved our request for an environmental cost recovery rider related to the $100 million upgrade at our Big Stone Station that is scheduled to be completed next year as well as we have received an advanced determination of prudency for our pollution control equipment at the Lewis &amp; Clark Generating Station to be completed in 2016.
Our utility group has substantial organic growth opportunities.
We are projecting annual rate base growth of approximately 9% over the next five years and supporting that level of growth is a record five-year capital program of approximately $1.3 billion.
We plan to invest $300 million of that budget this year.
In addition to the Big Stone and Lewis &amp; Clark Station environmental upgrades construction continues on our 88 megawatt $75 million natural gas turbine to complete to be completed in the third quarter this year that situated just across the river here in Mandan North Dakota.
We expect to invest an additional $70 million for continued infrastructure enhancements out in the Bakken area and we continued to make significant investments in our gas distribution systems at both Cascade and Intermountain service territories to accommodate customer growth as well as routine pipeline replacement programs.
Our tracker mechanism is in place for approved pipeline integrity related investments at Cascade in the year that they are made.
So with a record capital forecast in place and continued strong customer growth we are clearly excited about the future of our utility group and look forward to the rest of the year.
Now moving on to our pipeline and energy service group we reported adjusted earnings of $15.1 million compared to $13.3 million in the prior year.
The increase was largely the result of a full year benefit from our interest in the Pronghorn natural gas and oil midstream assets.
This group made substantial progress on two very large projects this year the Dakota Prairie Refinery and the proposed 375 mile long Dakota pipeline.
Construction of the Dakota Prairie Refinery is 40% complete and we achieved one of the major milestones with the arrival of our crude oil distillation tower.
This is a 100 ton 140 foot long tower that was fabricated in Taiwan and began its journey to Dickinson North Dakota back on November 6.
After passing through the Panama Canal it departed Houston on two flatbed tandem trailers and arrived safely at the refinery site on January 21.
We have revised our refinery project cost estimate upward to $350 million with final design and engineering work now substantially complete on the project.
The refinery is on schedule for completion late this year and using our base case assumptions for Bakken differentials we expect EBITDA in the range of $70 million to $90 million annually to be shared equally with our partner.
And with respect to the proposed 375 mile long Dakota pipeline project we announced just last week the commencement of an open season to obtain capacity commitments for the project.
The $650 million pipeline would be the largest project in our 90-year corporate history.
It would increase takeaway capacity out of the Bakken to accommodate rapidly growing natural gas production in the region.
The proposed route stretches across Western North Dakota to Northwestern Minnesota and would transport natural gas to markets in Eastern North Dakota Minnesota Wisconsin Michigan and other Midwest markets.
Once the 120-day open season concludes we will evaluate the results and expect to announce plans for moving forward this summer.
Construction of the pipeline could begin in 2016 with completion in 2017.
This group is also moving forward on constructing a 24 mile natural gas pipeline and related processing facilities to transport Fidelity’s Paradox basin production.
This project is expected to be completed by July of this year.
And in addition in late October WBI Energy filed for its first rate increase since 1999 requesting an increase of $28.9 million annually.
The implementation of new rates is expected to be effective May 1 of this year.
Our pipeline business is in a strong position and focused on execution of the substantial growth opportunities just in front of them.
Now let’s move on to our exploration and production business.
Adjusted earnings were $28 million higher in 2013 a 41% increase and the best year since 2008.
Our Bakken and Paradox acreage continued to drive the group’s strong results generating an oil production record of 4.8 million net barrels produce during the year.
Oil production for the Bakken increased 36% and 221% in the Paradox compared to last year.
We currently have two rigs running in the Bakken with one each in Montrail and Stark Counties.
We are testing alternative completion techniques in both counties utilizing more frac stages cemented liners higher strength propane and bearing the pumping techniques.
Results to-date have been encouraging but there is still more work to do.
We expect to finalize completion design changes later this year and will provide more details at that time.
Capital expenditures in the Bakken are expected to be about $130 million for the year as we continue our two rig program in that play.
The Bakken continues to drive our E&amp;P Group but with each passing quarter over the past year; the Paradox is taken on increasing significance for us.
And we see that continuing as we move forward.
For instance in 2012 we were encouraged by early results from the Paradox Basin but it was largely based on the success of one or two wells and production from the play accounted for only 7% of our total oil production for the year.
In 2013 we repeated those early successes and production from the play represented 17% of the total oil production and in the fourth quarter the Paradox moved up to representing 21% of our oil production.
Our latest well the Cane Creek Unit 7-1 is in initial flow-back and production ramp-up period flowing on a 564<sup>th</sup> choke that’s less than one tenth of an inch in diameter.
The 7-1 is producing 350 barrels of oil per day at more than 3 000 psi flowing pressure.
It will be brought on to full production capability over the next month.
Today we’re having a much deeper understanding of the Paradox Basin and we’re confident we have the knowledge to continue our success there.
That confidence is clearly evidenced by our recent acquisition of an additional 35 000 undeveloped net leasehold acres bringing our total to approximately 130 000 acres as well as our addition of a second drilling rig to the area in December.
We’re continuing to look to expand our acreage in the field and also have an option to earn into another 20 000 acres.
We’re anticipating approximately $170 million in capital expenditures in the Paradox this year.
The recent acquisition in the Paradox along with the sale of $84 million of primarily non-strategic natural gas properties last year exemplify our strategy of deploying our capital dollars on oil projects with high economic returns to grow our E&amp;P business.
We’ve also continued our focus on adding a third oil play and will announce any progress if and when agreements have been signed.
Our overall capital budget for this group is approximately $440 million for this coming year.
We’re projecting a 10% to 20% oil production growth along with a 5% to 10% NGL growth and a 20% to 30% decrease in natural gas production primarily the result of divestments last year.
Maintaining a strong portfolio of drilling inventory is important to our E&amp;P Group’s success.
In 2013 we were pleased to replace 277% of oil production for 13.3 million barrels.
Our year end reserves totaled 80.7 million barrels of oil equivalents and the 2013 PV-10 value of our reserves increased $270 million versus 2012 levels.
Our E&amp;P business had good success in 2013 and we look forward to continuing the momentum that was generated throughout the year.
MDU Resources had a very successful year.
I believe it’s fair to say we executed our business plans very well.
Contributing to our success was execution of our plans as to funding our projects with limited use of new equity.
We accomplished this through the efficient use of operating cash flows moderate levels of debt and the sale of certain non-strategic assets.
We finished the year strong with a strong balance sheet with a debt-to-capital of less than 40% a reaffirmed credit rating with S&amp;P of BBB+ and our continued A- rating that we have with Fitch.
In 2014 we plan to utilize this same approach to financing our growth utilizing all financial levers available to us.
Based on our current capital expenditures forecast for 2014 we plan to issue approximately $200 million of equity.
Equity raise will be invested in accretive projects at our utility as it grows it’s rate base at WBI Energy as it completes and puts online at Dakota Prairie Refinery and at our E&amp;P business it continues to grow by adding the second rig into the fast developing Paradox Basin play where we have just added that 35 000 more acres.
We are initiating our 2014 guidance at $1.45 to $1.60 per share.
Our guidance assumes normal weather for the utility and construction segments as well as wider differentials for Bakken oil pricing.
We have opportunities right in front of us and a record $4.4 billion five year capital budget in place.
We are focused on growing MDU Resources by executing on our strategies.
Again I would like to thank you for your time today and we will be happy to open the lines to answer any questions that you might have at this time.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Matt Tucker KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning and congrats on a great year.
Good morning Matt thank you very much.
First question on the natural gas production guidance it’s been down 20% or 30% in ’14 is that a drag on earnings growth in ’14? Hey Matt it’s Kent.
The real reason production is down as much as the divestments we made in ’13.
If you recall Dave mentioned we made $84 million worth of divestments and a lot of that was gas and the most notable two-thirds of that was our Green River Basin asset which we sold right at the end of the year.
I guess what I am kind of getting that is was your natural gas production profitable in ‘13? Yes so was that natural gas was a positive cash but kind of a – I will call it kind of neutral on the net income side.
So that’s not the big factor.
I mean to be honest with you for the E&amp;P side the bigger factor is our increasing DD&amp;A which of course is not a cash item but is a net income.
And we are seeing about a 17% or 18% DD&amp;A increase as a result of our full cost accounting and because we divested some low value reserves.
It affects the DD&amp;A calculation if that makes sense to you.
Got it.
Thanks Kent.
That was very helpful.
And then on the construction side I guess I was kind of surprised your guidance is the midpoint kind of flattish versus 2013 for the construction segment while the backlog I guess on a combined basis was up about 25% year-over-year so I guess could you just give us a little more color on what seems to be a little bit of disconnect there.
I know you have to book and burn a lot of your work as the year goes on I guess maybe are you expecting kind of slowdown in awards? Say Matt I think we will ask Dave Barney to touch on that from the materials perspective and then after him we will have Jeff Thiede talk about it from the services side is that fair? Sounds fair Matt this is Dave with Knife River.
In 2013 we saw good margin increases during the – on the material side and with our higher backlog levels in 2014 I am optimistic we will maintain or increase our margins and earnings in 2014.
And Matt this is Jeff from Construction Services.
We are coming off a record year in 2013 where we experienced above average margins.
We are optimistic about our opportunities in 2014.
We are a competitive group and we went into 2013 as we do every year and that is to beat plan and beat best ever results.
And we do that from focusing on safety and financial.
We see markets improving and our operating companies are in a strong position to offer our customers great values in our markets.
Thanks guys.
Last question January was pretty cold in a lot of country and you mentioned some weather impacts in December from I think kind of similar weather so can you maybe comment just on how January has been from weather perspective? I’ll start off Matt then we can dive into maybe Frank with utility but clearly it’s – I think it shows some of the diversity strength we have within our organization.
And I will go back to December where Kent had mentioned about our well production challenge in the Bakken whereas we – that certainly is an offset from our utility business.
I would say that really continued into January.
Frank although given we are in over eight states not all areas were colder than normal.
That’s correct Dave.
We did see January start off colder than normal especially in the Dakota area the typical Montana-Dakota and that helped us on both the gas and electric side actually.
We also saw colder than normal temperatures within the Intermountain service territory.
But we were right out normal maybe in fact a little warmer than normal out at Cascade.
And so again our diversified footprint across eight states I think is going to add strength to us as we go through the year.
Thanks guys.
That’s all I have for now.
I’ll jump back in the queue.
Okay.
Thank you Matt.
Your question comes from Chris Ellinghaus of Williams Capital.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
The gas sale was there any gain or loss on that? Chris this is Doran.
As far as the sale of the natural gas property the accounting under the full cost method essentially what you do is you reduce your property balance essentially as opposed to booking or a gain or loss it’s a nuance of full cost accounting for oil and gas so answer is no.
Okay great.
And you were saying that the Paradox acquisition was right at the end of the year I assume that was in December sometime? Hey Chris it’s Kent.
Actually we just closed it last week.
So it’s actually in this year’s numbers.
Alright.
And can you give us a little color Kent on the decline in gas production that you are expecting how much of that is related to the divestiture? Yes I don’t have the exact numbers in front of me a significant amount of that is but Chris what we have to remember is we are continuing not to invest in our gas assets.
So we are going to see that typical 15% to 20% decline and then with what we divested as well.
Okay that’s good color.
And can you give us a little color on what you gave us for guidance on liquids as well? Well on the liquid side we are going to continue to invest in the Bakken and the Paradox are big places approximately 70% of our capital is going to go into those areas.
And then what that has said is our Cedar Creek asset which is where we have the net profits interest.
That continues to decline and we have some other oily assets that decline a little bit but we will figure the biggest percentage growth from the Paradox and then the Bakken it’s level of growth is going to be depend upon what we do with our new completion techniques that we are still working on.
And one last thing as far as the FERC pipeline case goes can you give us – that’s a substantial number can you give us a little feel for what the earnings impact might be from that case? Chris this is Steve.
I guess where we are at right now Chris that’s our file position.
We have included a number of assumptions within that case.
As we go forward we are going to work through that.
We are currently in the process of responding to a number of data requests that FERC and others have requested of us.
We actually have the FERC staff that will be out at our site here or onsite later this month to do an audit.
And then we will work toward that implementation data of May 1 our whole peers that were able to settle the case at some level acceptable to our customers and us as well.
And we will just have to get through that process before we can identify the specifics of the earnings impacts going forward.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you Chris.
Your next question comes from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
I want to touch base with you on the just a few quick ones the commodity derivative gains what was the impact on that for the year the realized ones? On the realized gains Paul? Yes.
Okay.
Just a moment please.
Why you guys are looking that up? If you could remind me why construction depreciation went down depletion depreciation and amortization went down? Paul this is Doran.
Essentially as you know with the Construction Materials business we have been investing roughly $35 million to $40 million of CapEx over the past several years our depreciation rate is higher than that.
So as the PP&amp;E balances declined down over the last several years as we’ve right-sized our fleet we’ve sold off some assets we’ve reduced our invested capital balance that’s also brought down the depreciation.
DD&amp;A is not just the amortization or depletion of aggregate reserves.
It’s also the depreciation of the fixed asset balance which probably has more impact than the depletion of aggregate reserves.
And so that’s why you’re seeing it dip a little bit in the fourth quarter and for the year.
Okay.
And there was no adjustment or anything; it was just a result of lower PP&amp;E? Yes that’s correct and it essentially continues the trend that we’ve seen here over the last several years.
Should we expect that in 2014 as well? Yes based on our CapEx balance in 2014 of $38 million and a depreciation rate of $75 million if that were to hold true we’d see continued downward pressure on the depreciation rate.
Okay.
Paul this is Kent.
Your question on the realized derivative gains and as you know we do our hedging to sort of manage risk and keep continuity.
And we had positive hedge gains in first second and fourth quarter offset by negative in the third quarter and at the end of the year it was almost a complete wash.
I think we were $200 000 to the positive with our oil derivatives were just slightly negative and our gas derivatives just slightly positive and overall positive of about $200 000.
So we were effective in doing the risk management that have kept a consistent year but at the end of the day we didn’t make or lose money.
Okay great.
And then you mentioned a – also just the gain on the sale of the appliance business at the utility that’s mentioned in the release.
What kind of impact did that have? This is – this is Frank with the Utility Group.
That was really non-material impact to total earnings for the year.
I just saw it mentioned that’s why I thought I just follow-up on it.
Then finally the oil play the third oil play I think you guys mentioned did I hear you correctly.
Can you elaborate a little bit on that or..
Well we – what we’ve talked about is that it’s our strategy to add a third oil leg and we’re as committed to ever to do that.
But until such time as we have definitive agreements signed there is nothing more to say at this point.
Okay.
Any idea – can you give us a sense as to where it might be or really don’t want to talk about at all? Well Paul I’ve always found it never a good idea to sort of forecast in like that.
We have nothing to say at this point and as soon as we do have definitive agreements signed we will make a news release at that time.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Worth just had a try.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Paul.
Your next question comes from Timm Schneider of ISI Group.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Timm.
First a couple of questions can you just run me through your differential assumptions in the Bakken and the Paradox and the crude oil? Yes Timm this is Kent.
Are you talking about for 2014.
That’s right.
Yes.
So and I think just a little backdrop last year in 2013 they started really low really got the quite high numbers in December and January now we’re seeing them come back down.
So the Bakken December and January round numbers kind of $15 and remember our differentials include our trucking costs which are about $6 or so.
We’re seeing that come down by about $5 in February down to the $10 range and that sort of how we see the year probably averaging in the $10 $12 range.
Got it.
So that would be $10 to $12 of your WTI forecast then just for modeling purposes? Yes.
Okay got it.
And can you breakdown that $170 million you’re spending in the Paradox in 2014 in terms of – what does that actually mean with new wells inner ground versus science versus how much you spend in the acquisition? Okay.
So we’re going to drill between 12 to 15 wells in 2014 with the two rig program and our well costs are going to be probably in the $10 million to $11 million range as we’ve increased our lateral length it’s increased our well cost but of course also increases our EUR expectations.
In terms of acquisition cost not prepared to share that we are still actively pursuing other opportunities and now is not the right time to sort of talk about that.
And just so I have its current production it’s around – is it still on 3 000 this is Paradox? Yes in the Paradox so if we look at quarterly numbers third quarter was around 2 300 fourth quarter was around 2 850.
Right now we are having I will call it good days and bad days where the weather is really impacting production but we are well above the 3 000 on good days and then a little bit below on that day so it’s kind of fluctuating around that.
But we are continuing to grow the Paradox.
Last question I had and I will get back in queue I just want to make sure the – what’s the timing of the $200 million of equity? Timm this is Doran.
Timing probably plan to issue that off of our ATM program that we established here a little over a year ago and so issuances would occur throughout the course of the year.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
Thank you Tim.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from Brent Thielman of Davidson.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Brent.
Just one question from me as you look at the guidance for 2014 maybe can you kind of walk us through what are some of the scenarios or particular businesses you are thinking about that we should be considering that can kind of cause you to be at the lower end of that range? Well Brent as we put out the guidance I think I’ll start off by saying I think we are positioned to have a good year in 2014.
I think the range that we provided I will say is a reasonable range.
Some of the things going into this you have asked about certainly timing is important from our construction businesses how soon we can get into the field and how successful we can be at the tail end of the year.
For instance last year we had a very favorable construction season right up to Thanksgiving time and that really assisted our construction businesses.
You can have the backlog there but if you are not able to get into the field and work it and so we are able to execute on that.
So we are assuming normal weather what we would expect to see from normal to get in and get out of the field particularly with construction.
Pricing and production I think we have touched on that a little bit already so far as some guidance range there on the 10% to 20% oil growth.
Differential something we cannot control we put – I think some reasonable assumptions there if differentials were to narrow that would be upside to the plan.
However they were to widen extraordinarily that would be some downside to the plan as well.
Weather we can’t control that certainly we have some internal diversity and kind of hedging across as we talked about for oil production December was offset by good weather that for one of the utility.
So we have got average weather end of this year last year was pretty much an average summer but we had very cold January and February of 2013 and maybe that I will say average weather there.
And as we think we are deploying capital on our lines of business that some we received the benefits that earlier but for instance the refinery is our second year of major capital investments that Steve and his group will continue with the expectation that we are on track to have that refinery on by the end of this year.
But we would not see earnings coming from that in 2014 that would actually be deferred into 2015.
So and I would expect similar to last year as we go throughout the year to update you and others at the quarterly breaks or what seems appropriate when we have no information.
But in summary I think it’s a reasonable range based on what we see today clearly we will update you and all as the year goes on.
That’s fair thank you.
Okay thanks Brent.
Your next question comes from Vedula Murti of CDP.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Couple of things one can you talk about the FERC rate case.
Can you describe any – what assumption you have made for that outcome as part of our ’14 guidance? Yes this is Steve.
As we work through that I mean obviously we are working with our customers we will be working with the FERC staff.
So we are not in a position to really speak to specifics included in our guidance range for 2014.
Okay when the open season for the pipeline if this comes off can you remind me how large a capital program of capital item this is and when it will be in service? Sure.
Just quickly on the pipeline it’s a 375-mile pipeline starts kind of near well in Western North Dakota really in the heart of the Bakken it moves North and East into Northwestern Minnesota where we would tie into the Emerson near the Emerson location tie into Viking the Viking pipeline as well as Great Lakes pipeline and potentially TransCanada.
Total cost of that project is $650 million.
We have got a 120 day open season planned which kicked off January 30.
On following that open season we will probably see a couple of months where we would negotiate with our customers to get final pressing agreements in place.
The regulatory process would be about 2 years.
So we would expect an EIS would be required for this project which would allow for construction to start in late 2016 within the service date likely late 2017.
Okay.
Would you anticipate at this point to retain 100% for yourself? Right now we are planning on including as part of our WBI Energy transmission pipeline and not assuming any investments from third-parties.
Okay alright.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
And you have a follow-up question from Timm Schneider of ISI group.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Just a couple of follow-ups on the Paradox and can you just give us the average lateral length and frac stages on these new – these $10 million to $11 million well? Yes.
Tim so our – the longest lateral we have drilled so far is around 4 700 feet and that was our 36-1 well which is a very good well flowing about 1 200 barrels a day.
The shortest lateral ironically is a 1000 foot lateral which is our 12-1 well which is the well that was flowing at 1 500 barrels a day but still flowing at just under 1 000 barrels a day.
So I think that’s the context.
So it really depends upon where it is in the field on how long we try to drill.
I think an important thing though is we do not frac these wells.
We have our proprietary completion technique but I will share with you we don’t frac them and so there is no frac stages.
And what was the reason – I think it was the Cane Creek Unit 7-1 was choked back so much is that just for – is that infrastructure issue or is that reservoir issue so you don’t want to damage the formation? Yes.
We are really careful on all our wells on how we bring them on production.
So we are going through the same procedure that we have done for all of our wells.
We bring them on slow.
We choked them back.
In that particular case it’s not an infrastructure issue.
When we do get up to the higher rates like over 1 000 barrels a day then our surface facilities can be a limitation as they were for the 36-1 and we needed to make some surface adjustments there to handle the gas.
It’s not about the well but the gas.
And then of course we are putting in a pipeline which we expect to have online during third quarter to gather all the gas in the area.
What’s the gas cut on average in these wells? If you can kind of break it down oil NGL versus gas? Timm right now we are not gathering any gas so there is no NGLs.
The GORs vary from as low as 400 GOR all the way up to still less than 1 000 but in the perhaps 800 range.
This is very high BTU gas once again some variability but in the 1 500 BTU range.
So it’s good gas to gather and we will be the first company to put our gas pipeline out in the area and we will have our processing facility and our sister company WBI is doing all that work.
Got it.
And then lastly from me can you give us a sense in terms of what you are seeing with pressure declines in these wells after a month after three months basically when you have to put these on pump? Yes.
Once again there is quite a bit of variability.
I mentioned to you that the 12-1 well which came on in September October of 2012 and it’s still flowing at 1 000 barrels a day.
That’s the one extreme.
We have had other wells that within 3 to 4 months we need to put them on top.
And it has more to do with what part of the reservoir have we connected it to than it is pressures.
There is a lot of pressure in this field.
It’s a very high pressure field.
It’s just due to the productivity of the reservoir that affects how quickly it goes on pump.
Alright thanks guys.
Thanks Timm.
And you have another follow-up question from Matt Tucker of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Few follow-up questions on the refinery can you discuss what contributed to the increase in the cost estimate? How constant are you that you have got the estimate right now and does any of that increase represent increased work for your other segments? Sure Matt.
This is Steve.
No there isn’t any one specific thing that drove the cost increases a number of items and I will try to give you a flavor for that.
First of all some of the site work in concrete-related activities would help drive those costs as we did our geotechnical interpretations of the soil there.
We ended up having to increase the thickness of our foundations by about a third.
That certainly was beneficial to our Knife River Group who did some of that work.
Another area that we saw increase was environmental related things like wastewater handling systems the processing water systems or storm water system all those things to ensure environmental compliance just added up being more significant than we had originally expected relative to some of our pipe racks and so forth we had to increase the height of those from our original design that helped drive the increase costs.
And then lastly I will put in the bucket of risk management type systems.
This includes things like fire protection for our fireproofing of some of the facilities as well as some of our building design.
So all those things affected us each of them kind of adding to our increase in overall costs.
As I said some of those are related or were beneficial to Knife River but certainly not all of them.
If you look at where we are at today we are about little over 70% of the total cost of the project is either under a fixed price bid or under purchase order.
So we feel pretty good about our costs.
We have got over 90% of the engineering completed as we sit here are approximately 90%.
So we feel pretty good where we think the costs are going to come on this.
And just a reminder we are planning to still on track to bring it online by the end of 2014 and notwithstanding the increase in cost certainly I look forward to the $70 million to $90 million EBITDA associated with our investment here and our share of that.
Thanks Steve.
And then finally just on the potential announcement of a third E&amp;P play how likely is it that that happens in 2014? You guys are relentless on trying to get me to talk about something Matt.
So I will just repeat what I have said before.
It’s an important part of our strategy.
We are committed on doing that.
And as soon as we have definitive agreement signed we will put out a news release.
Thanks guys.
That’s all I had.
Thank you Matt.
And you have a follow-up question from Vedula Murti of CDP.
Your line is now open.
Let’s see.
I am wondering with the new completion techniques you are looking at in the Paradox wells if those work the way you think they will.
How much room is there for acceleration in terms of development in the Paradox? Yes.
So just to clarify the new completion techniques we are working on is for the Bakken.
We have had a fairly standard completion technique that we have done over the last number of wells probably the last year we have been fairly standard on how we are doing that.
Acceleration there is a couple of factors.
One and I will just rough start we do look to add more rigs over time to try to accelerate our growth there.
We have to be careful not to get ahead of the permits.
We have to be careful not to get ahead of our learning and particularly as we are now starting to move to some different areas with the second rig as well as looking at the up-hole clastics.
We could actually have a little bit of a slowdown in our production growth which will accelerate over time as we explore those new areas.
So we are trying to be very disciplined here because this is an area where industry is not been able to make it work for five decades.
We feel like we are on a really good track and we are trying not to get ahead of ourselves.
So it will be a measured growth but as soon as we feel confident we will look to accelerate the number of rigs working there.
And my last question is that assuming that you are able to add this third well lag obviously that would then require incremental capital expenditures in ’15 and everything like that so if we think about accelerating capital expenditures how would you be then thinking about the possibility of an MLP as part of accessing capital? Well there – I think we have been quite clear on how we look at funding opportunities.
And as we – last year sold non-strategic assets that’s one thing we will look at.
We will look to continue to grow our operating cash flows.
We will look to debt.
We will look to raising equity.
An MLP is one way to look at how you might divest assets.
From an E&amp;P perspective I am not sure that would make sense.
I think we might be better served as we did in 2013 to divest E&amp;P assets to – I will call the rightful owner it seems to – we get to maximize our value that way.
Alright thank you very much.
Okay thank you Vedula.
This marks the last call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning 1 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on February 18.
The conference ID number for the replay is 29265471.
Again the conference ID for the replay is 29265471.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Well again thank you all for joining us on this earnings release.
We are certainly pleased with our 2013 performance and continue to focus on execution of the growth opportunities that are really right in front of us.
Our business units are working together to add shareholder value.
And certainly we are hopeful that you might be able to attend our May - March excuse me March 18 Analyst Day and join us in celebrating us being in business 90 years.
We are scheduled to ring the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange that day.
Again we appreciate your participation on the call and we will keep you updated as we move throughout the year.
Again thank you for your interest in MDU Resources.
This concludes today’s MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Shirley and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group first quarter 2014 conference call.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 1 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern on May 15.
The conference ID number for the replay is 23827719.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 23827719.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the call over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you Mr.
Schwartz.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to our earnings conference call.
Before I turn the presentation over to Dave Goodin our President and Chief Executive Officer I'd like to mention that this conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you would like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and the Risk Factor section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks from Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are: Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Frank Morehouse President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; Kent Wells Vice Chairman of the Corporation and President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration and Production; and Nathan Ring Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I'll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Well thank you Doran and good morning.
Thank you for your interest in MDU Resources and for taking the time to join us today to discuss our first quarter results.
Our business has performed well throughout the quarter and we are pleased with the results.
Some highlights include achieving a new quarterly earnings record at construction services of $16.6 million realizing oil production growth of 14% despite a slow start in our Bakken acreage and we are pleased with our first quarter acquisition of our oil-focused acreage in the part of Powder River Basin of Congress County Wyoming.
Our investments and customer growth continue to meet increasing electric sales and drive earnings growth.
And our pipeline business experienced earnings growth from 2012 acquisition of the Pronghorn natural gas processing and oil gathering facilities.
Our construction materials business had built its largest first quarter backlog since 2007.
And at the Natural Gas Distribution business 2013 benefited from a $2.9 million gain on the sale of our preferred service business.
And 2014 generally reflects normalization in our service territories where it was colder and warmer weather in areas where we were not normalized.
This business is performing well and in a longer-term investment in customer growth prospects are very bright.
So while there were some challenges in the first quarter our business units and their teams continued to execute and take advantage of opportunities which is reflected in our consolidated adjusted earnings for the quarter of $60.8 million or $0.32 per share.
This compares with $60.1 million or $0.32 per share in the first quarter of 2013.
Our construction groups had another solid quarter achieving year-over-year earnings improvement for the 10<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter.
On a combined basis results improved by $1.9 million compared to the same period a year ago.
On a trailing-12 month basis combined earnings are now at $105 million compared to the trough of $48 million just in 2011.
Our services group earned record quarterly earnings of $16.6 million which is actually a 42% increase over last year.
This improvement was largely the result of strong growth at our outside Electric division which performs power line and substation construction.
Our construction materials business had a normal seasonal loss of $23.6 million this quarter.
And now looking forward our companies are seeing strong bidding opportunities in a number of our markets as well.
We have a combined backlog totaling now at $1.05 billion at March 31 and additional backlog has been secured in just this past month.
The $653 million we have in the backlog in our materials group is the highest first quarter backlog we've seen since 2007.
This higher backlog includes the large $55 million bypass project near Rockford City in the Bakken area.
This is the largest individual contract in the history of our construction materials company.
Part of our story here is certainly attributable to the Bakken as our combined North Dakota backlog is approximately $125 million compared to only $67 million just a year ago.
However we are seeing stronger prospects in a number of our markets.
A sound cost structure good backlogs and continued positive indicators in many of the markets we participate have us confident in a good year for our construction group as we kick off the construction season.
Now I'd like to move on to our E&amp;P business.
Here we boost our oil production 14% quarter-over-quarter despite some very challenging weather-related conditions in the Bakken.
The oil production increased along with substantially higher realized natural gas prices resulted in adjusted earnings for the quarter of $25.2 million compared to $24 million back in 2013.
We continue to have good results in the Paradox Basin where oil production grew 121% compared to last year.
This play is a key part of our oil and gas portfolio and now represents approximately one-fourth or a quarter of our total oil production up from 13% a year ago.
We have about 130 000 net acres including the recent acquisition of 35 000 additional net acres with the potential of another 20 000 acres that is under option.
Compared to our acreage position of three years ago we have nearly doubled that position.
We currently have two rigs running in the area.
One rig is focused on development and the other rig is moving into the up-hole clastics we'd like to test as well as the newer areas where we have recently run our 3D seismic.
Well cost in the Paradox are in the $9 million to $12 million range but with the higher cost come greater potential and the EURs that have an upper range of about 1.5 million barrels.
Our Cane Creek 12-1 well is approaching 700 000 barrels produced in just its 20 month life span.
It's still generating free flow production of approximately 1 000 barrels per day.
We see our capital expenditures in the Paradox expected to total 180 million in 2014.
Of course the Bakken is still our largest producing asset accounting for over one-half of our total oil production.
I mentioned just a moment ago that winter conditions in the Bakken were challenging.
Our production was certainly impacted by the conditions as we saw minimal oil production growth year-over-year.
We currently have two rigs running in the Bakken with one each in Montreal and Stark counties.
We expect to invest approximately $130 million in the Bakken this year as we continue to develop our acreage and test new completion designs and techniques which we expect to be finalized later in 2014.
We are excited about our addition of the Powder River Basin the third leg of our oil growth story.
Here we purchased approximately 24 500 net acres and what we believe will be the sweet spot of the Frontier Play.
One thing we like about this area is that it's stack pay where we have more than one horizon to develop.
We're in primarily a non-operator position at this point in time.
The operators in place are companies that we have been in business since seen in business a long time and that we do trust.
We anticipate two to three rigs drilling during the third and fourth quarters as operators' ramp up for upcoming drilling season.
Also including our acquisition cost related closing adjustments we plan to invest approximately $270 million in the Powder River Basin in 2014.
Total projected CapEx for E&amp;P group for the year is estimated at $670 million which should be partially offset by planned asset sales of some non-strategic properties later this year.
So despite a slow start to the year in the Bakken we are confident we'll achieve our revised target of 15% to 20% oil production growth for 2014.
Our E&amp;P segment is positioned well for continued growth.
Now turning to our utility business.
Our utility business had a solid quarter earning $38.3 million compared to $42.3 million in 2013.
The decrease reflects higher operation and maintenance expenses as well as the absence of $2.9 million after-tax gain on the sale of our Montana-Dakota's non-regulated appliance service and repair business.
Partially offsetting the decrease were higher electric retail sales and margins including 10% higher sales volumes and higher natural gas retail sale margins driven by rate relief.
Temperatures were no doubt colder in the plain states of our service territory this quarter but when combined with warmer weather in our Idaho utility service territory we netted a minimal increase in natural gas sales on a combined basis.
We did achieve record electric retail sales volumes for the second consecutive quarter thanks in large part to continued economic growth in the Bakken area whereas we are seeing sustained customer growth.
Our outlook for our utilities business plans include investing $1.3 billion over the next five years with a projected rate base growth of 9% annually.
A quick update on a couple of our larger projects.
Construction of our 88-megawatt natural gas turbine continues to be on schedule with the projected in line service date of the third quarter this year.
We have filed for a $7.4 million generation tracker recovery here in North Dakota.
The Big Stone Station environmental upgrades are well underway with expected completion later this year.
Here our portion of the project is now estimated at $90 million of rate base investment.
These are dynamic times for our utility group considering the many organic growth opportunities in front of us that are included in its record five-year capital forecast of $1.3 billion.
Next moving on to our Pipeline and Energy Service Group where we had earnings of $4.3 million compared to $2.3 million just a year ago reflecting higher earnings levels from our interest in our Pronghorn natural gas and oil midstream assets.
Here transportation volumes were also 43% higher when compared with the same period just a year ago.
Principally related to this were volumes associated with the Bakken natural gas processing facilities.
We have an aggressive goal to double our capital investment and as a result earnings in this group in the next five years.
Our jointly-owned $350 million Dakota Prairie Refinery is approximately now 55% complete.
This project remains on schedule to begin testing later this fall and have at in-service by the end of the year.
To date more than 620 000 man-hours have been worked since we broke around just a little bit more than a year ago.
And I'm also happy and very pleased to report that there have been no lost-time accidents on this very major project.
Currently we have over 300 workers onsite and will reach a peak of around 450 workers later this summer.
We have already hired our key management team and we're nearly fully-staffed with all of our operators.
And again we have indicated previously that our first year EBITDA projections for the plant are expected to be between $70 million and $90 million of which our share would be one-half.
Our capital projections do not include the proposed 375-mile natural gas Dakota pipeline for which open season is now well underway.
Reaction to the project from producers suppliers and marketers has been positive thus far.
However signed commitments are generally not made until the very end of the open season window.
So when that 120-day period concludes at the end of May we'll certainly have to evaluate our results and we expect to make a decision as to whether we move forward with the project within a couple of months after the open season closes.
In regards to our FERC rate case filed last October a settlement in principal was reached just late yesterday.
So we'll be working through the details and plan to file new rates early next week which will be effective as of today.
We're optimistic about the future of our pipeline business given the projects at-hand and its proximity to the abundant growth taking place in the Rocky Mountain region energy plays.
Now returning to back to a consolidated discussion.
We're pleased again with our first quarter solid results.
As we look forward each of our business lines has a bright near and long-term future.
When we think about our construction group we're seeing economic recovery underway that has also we've got capacity to continue growing our earnings there.
Our E&amp;P recently added the third lake to its oil growth strategy and continues to enhance the value of its existing assets.
And our utility is projecting that 9% annual rate base growth over the next five years which maybe one of actually the fastest growing utilities in the country right now.
And our pipeline will be brining an outstanding project online in our diesel refinery later this year.
And again is on the midst of an open season of our proposed Dakota pipeline which will dramatically expand our pipeline system.
Funding our future in a responsible manner and maintaining a healthy balance sheet also remains a top priority for us.
Our five-year capital program calls for an investment of $4.6 billion including $1.2 billion here in 2014.
In addition to operating cash flows debt and non-strategic assets sales equity will also be raised to help provide this funding.
Our current equity projection continues to be in the range of $250 million to $300 million dependent on other funding sources such as asset sale levels.
The equity is funding accretive projects including rate base growth at our utility the diesel refinery and drilling and acquisition growth at our oil and gas business as well.
We are excited about what we've returned to our shareholders in this past through stock price appreciation as well as dividend payments.
Our one-year total shareholder return as of March 31 was 41% which is substantially higher in the indices we compare ourselves with as well as our peer group.
Besides we continue our focus on creating shareholder value and we also have increased our earnings guidance a $0.05 to the range now of a $1.50 to $1.65 per share.
We're off to a good start for the year and look forward to carrying on this momentum Now I would like to thank you again for your time today.
And we'll be happy to answer any questions that you might have.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson.
Nice quarter in construction services.
Is the margin expansion more of a function of mix of work or improving pricing environment? I'm going to ask Jeff Thiede to take on that one.
We had a few large projects ramp up faster than anticipated.
We had favorable conditions in weather.
And we're still anticipating good performance going forward.
If you take a look at our outside businesses we had a strong first quarter.
But also contributions from our industrial our equipment rental and supply and the Vegas markets is improving.
We're well-positioned with our electrical mechanical fire protection excavation and supply companies.
And we're looking forward to a good rest of the year.
And kind of on that it sounds like you've been able to build on the backlog at the end of quarter in what areas are you seeing the most strength in? We're really seeing strength in all of our business volumes.
Our industrial companies have had a good first quarter.
And as the weather breaks we see additional volumes there.
Our outside line companies have decent backlog.
And even though our backlog is down we've got several pending projects primarily in our inside businesses that will help bring those levels up.
And then just lastly can you help me with some of the puts and takes for the flat margin expectations for construction this year? Are there some headwinds this year that will make it a little more challenging to exceed last year's levels? Brent I missed the first part of your question there if you could just repeat.
I think I got the last part as to wondering about margins in construction materials.
But you just broke up a little bit on the first part.
Just wondering what kind of some of the puts and takes are for the flat margin expectations for construction this year? On the construction material side our backlog margins are about flat compared to last year.
However with our higher backlog that we have we're expecting to increase some margins on the backlog as we go forward in the second third quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
First question on the guidance revision.
Can you just talk a little bit more about what more specifically drove the higher guidance? Did first quarter earnings come in above your expectations? Was it the PRB acquisition or combination? I would say you hit a couple of the items right first off.
Clearly CSG having a record first quarter for us was a nice start to the year there.
And you heard Jeff earlier just answer Brent's question about what you're seeing in some of the markets.
And then you couple that to your other point on our entry and acquisition of the 24 500 acres into the Powder River Basin play that we closed on or about I think March 6 both of those led to looking at our guidance for the year and raising it by that $0.05.
And so clearly there is a lot of the year left.
And there is influences there within our control and outside of our control from the variability when you think forward whether it would be weather commodity pricing outside our control.
Inside our control would be things like execution net backlog of $1.5 billion and construction of things that we've got as Kent and his team are learning more about the Powder River Basin play.
So those would be kind of a future look.
I don't know if that was really a question but that's why we moved it up a $0.05 at this point.
And then just looking at the Natural Gas Distribution the O&amp;M there as you pointed out was up quite a bit year-on-year.
Just talk a little bit about what drove that and also kind of your outlook for the rest of the year there? Sure Matt.
I'll turn it over to Frank Morehouse for that one.
Clearly our driving factor for the increased cost on the gas side is regulatory compliance.
We have more and more scrutiny regarding safe operations of our pipelines.
We recently have had some reviews of our control room security.
So we've had to add gas control facilities at both the Cascade operation and the Intermountain operation.
And then throughout the entire gas utility we've added Pipeline Safety Specialist with the increased focus on safe and reliable operation of these pipelines.
I think one of the important factors as we look at those increased costs as we move forward with our business plans they also include rate recovery of those additional costs as we move forward.
And the regulators take a very positive look when you're expending the O&amp;M dollar to increase your safety and reliability of a pipeline.
You get very favorable response from the regulators on that.
I guess from the sound of it I mean should we be assuming kind of similar growth then for the rest of this year? Matt are you wondering about the growth at the utility business from a throughput and a customer basis? I'm sorry Just on in terms of O&amp;M in that Natural Gas Distribution business it sounds like a lot of those additional costs will continue going forward.
So I guess I'm just curious should we kind of look at a similar growth rate or magnitude of increase as the year goes on versus last year? I think that you can see similar growth in those expenses as we move forward but that's also coupled directly with the growth of our utility.
We see growth of the utility customer base within our gas utility of around 2%.
We've got a great growth rate going on with our Electric side again recently 10% we're going to modify that I think a little.
And on the conservative side I think out for a number of years we see at least a 5% growth on that.
So again we're very positive about what we see.
We've got great regulatory relationships with all of our regulators.
And as we move forward with this as it's typical of utility business is your cost increase we'll need to go in for a rate relief on that.
And then just last question.
On the PRB you gave your total CapEx number for the year.
I was hoping you could tell us how much of that would be for drilling CapEx versus the acquisition itself? I will turn it over to Kent to talk about our PRB investment.
I think we've stated about $250 million to $270 million but he will add more color to that.
Matt we're pretty excited about the acquisition we made.
We're right on track with where we thought we'd be.
We've been focusing on the second bench in the Frontier and it's been coming in like we've expected.
In fact our main operator out there is completing another well right now.
Going forward for the year we're going to drill in the range of six to nine wells.
Right now they're in I will call it a time out period where there is a wildlife stipulations that avoid drilling activity going on.
We'll pickup a rig at the end of May another one in August.
And during the third and fourth quarter we'll have anywhere between two and three rigs running and we'll expect to focus on not only the second bench in the Frontier but also the first bench as well.
So we could invest anywhere between $50 million to $70 million over this period on top of the acquisition cost.
And we sort of expect EURs in the range of anywhere from 800 000 barrels to 1.2 million barrels but its early days we're just really starting to get comfortable with this.
But we're encouraged what we're seeing forward at this point.
And we expect this to be a part of our important growth portfolio overall the years to come.
This marks the last call for question.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 1 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on May 15.
The conference ID number for the replay is 23827719.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 23827719.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
As you can tell we're both excited and focused on executing our substantial growth opportunities that are really just right in front of us folks.
And we continue to push forward on better leveraging our expertise across our business lines as well.
We do very much appreciate your participation on this call today.
And we pledge to keep you updated as we move throughout the year.
So again thank you.
Thank you very much for your interest in MDU Resources.
This concludes today's MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern on August 19.
The conference ID number for the replay is 66196294.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 66196294.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the call over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
This conference is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you would like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Quarter and the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks from Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are: Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Frank Morehouse President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; Kent Wells Vice Chairman of the Corporation and CEO of Fidelity Exploration and Production; and Nathan Ring Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I'll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Well thank you Doran and good morning everyone.
Thank you for your interest in MDU Resources and for taking the time to join us today to discuss our second quarter results.
We are pleased to continue our strong 2014 performance with another good quarter.
In fact this is our strongest first half since 2008.
It reflects the focus of our businesses that they have on both performance as well as execution on their strategic growth plans.
Consolidated adjusted earnings for the quarter were $56.7 million or $0.29 per share up from $47.2 million or $0.25 per share in the second quarter of last year.
Our utility group improved earnings this quarter despite mild weather within our Electric Utility segment achieving a record second quarter as we continued to expand our investments in both customer growth opportunities along with various rate base opportunities.
Our Pipeline business more than doubled its earnings driven by increases at our Pronghorn midstream gathering and processing facilities.
Our Construction Services saw a record second quarter in earnings.
And at Construction Materials that group has a higher backlog heading in to our third and busiest quarter.
At our E&amp;P the first quarter acquisition of our Powder River Basin acreage has delivered positive results boosting our production as well.
Now moving on to our individual operations our Combined Utility business reported earnings of $3.3 million up for the quarter.
In fact up $4.8 million compared to 2013.
It was a record second quarter for our Electric group with retail sales margins growth related to environmental and cost recoveries along with 4% higher sales volumes driven by continued strong customer growth despite the mild weather that we have had.
Our Natural Gas Distribution business also benefited from rate recovery on retail rates that went into effect in late 2013.
Looking ahead over the next five years we are expecting to invest a record $1.3 billion with projected rate base growth of 9% compounded annually.
We plan to invest a record $300 million this year at our utility.
Of this we expect $80 million will be targeted to the Bakken region to accommodate continued electric and natural gas load growth an area where we saw 5% electric customer growth and 3.5% natural gas customer growth this quarter compared to last year.
Our $77 million 88-megawatt simple-cycle natural gas turbine Heskett 3 as we've named it is currently not only in construction but actually as of today will be in commercial operation.
Another example of our utility group executing on their business plans.
We also continue to work on the $60 million natural gas line into the Hanford nuclear site.
And we are moving forward on the 345-kV transmission line from Ellendale North Dakota to Big Stone City South Dakota where our portion of the investment is at approximately $170 million.
This is a great time for utility as we're now serving over a million customers and natural gas customers both electric and gas and growing in 448 communities.
Now I would like to move on to our Pipeline and Energy Service group where we more than doubled our earnings this quarter at $5.8 million compared to last year.
This group has benefited from higher volumes at its Pronghorn natural gas and oil midstream asset where total transportation volumes were 32% higher when compared to the same period last year.
Higher transmission rates primary the results of the rate case settlement where new rates went into effect on May 1<sup>st</sup> also contributed to our earnings increase.
Our pipeline group is very focused on a number of projects.
The Dakota Prairie refinery our jointly owned $300 million refinery is on track at approximately 75% complete.
To date over 842 000 man hours that worked on the site since ground breaking back in March 2013 with more than 500 workers on location.
We have filled most of our key acquisitions in our proceeding in a manner expecting startup by the end of the year.
First year EBITDA projection for the plan continues to be at $70 million to $90 million of which our share would be one half.
Open season proposed 375 mile natural gas Dakota pipeline project concluded back on May 30<sup>th</sup>.
The level of subscribed commitments on the pipeline as proposed is not where is like to see it just not quite yet.
However that group is very busy both evaluate and responses and working with interested parties to determine how we can move forward.
We expect to provide you a status update on our efforts this fall.
The construction of the natural gas pipeline in related processing facilities on our behalf for our E&amp;P group in the Paradox area is well underway with expected completion this fall.
We've also got the Garden Creek II project with expected completion this summer and the pipeline transmission expansion to increase capacity into the Black Hills area is expected to be in service this November as well.
We are very pleased with the projects we currently have on hand and are confident that we are in position for additional opportunities that should benefit our shareholders'.
Next at our Construction Materials and Service companies they had a combined earnings of $24.9 million this quarter.
That’s an 8% increase over last year and as a record second quarter for the services group.
This is the best combined construction group second quarter since 2008.
Net improvement was primarily the result of continued growth at our outside businesses which perform power line and substation construction as well as higher aggregate margins and volumes at our materials business.
This combined group has trended very nicely showing 11 consecutive quarters of year-over-year improvements on our results.
Looking forward our companies are seeing many opportunities with the combined backlog now at $1.15 billion as of June 30.
The backlog at our materials group is now at $764 million up $34 million from last year.
This higher backlog includes the variety of projects such as highway grading paving airports bridge as well as subdivision work.
North Dakota continues to play an important role where we now have $169 million in combined backlog.
And we're also seeing strengthening in a number of other markets as well.
Our construction teams have done an exceptional job at finding quality work in our markets.
Markets that we believe will continue to only get better and better and deliver.
We're hopeful for good construction weather as well throughout our peak season now in the third quarter as well as expecting that to continue into the four quarter.
Now moving on to our E&amp;P business here we had adjusted earnings of $22.5 million compared to $24.8 million a year ago.
This was on oil production which did increase 14% year-over-year.
The production improvement was led by an increase from the Paradox Basin of 42% as well as from the Powder River Basin acquisition.
In addition average realized oil prices improved.
These increases were more than offset by a net reduction in realized commodity derivatives and higher D&amp;A expense along with natural gas production decline which was primarily the result of our divestment of our Green River Basin natural gas assets late last year.
As announced in mid July we have signed a purchase and sale agreement to sell approximately 4 363 net acres in Mountrail County.
This is representative of our continued success where we acquire leaseholds at a reasonable price developed the acreage over time and then capture that growth through monetization.
The Bakken continues to be a key field for us.
We will continue to own 12 000 net acres in Mountrail County for total of 108 500 net acres including Stark and Richland County Holdings as well.
And we do plan to invest $125 million in the Bakken this year in drilling capital.
We continue on our testing of alternative completion techniques in the Bakken and are focused on optimizing the most encouraging technique utilizing coil tubing with cemented liners.
We now have approximately 140 000 net acres in the Paradox having just added 11 000 acres to our lease holds here in April.
We grew oil production here 42% this quarter compared to last year with the Basin now representing nearly a quarter of our total oil production up from 17% a year ago.
Paradox production was less than anticipated in the second quarter as operational issues and down time did affect several high rate wells.
These issues have broadly been resolved with facility changes and artificial lift installations.
Additionally drilling on multi-well pads and a couple of unsuccessful uphold Class II had deferred completions and production growth.
We expect to complete three very encouraging wells in August one of which is an uphold Class II.
We do anticipate higher production growth in the Paradox during this third quarter coming ahead.
Our Cane Creek Unit 12-1 well which has now fumed some 740 000 barrels since we began producing in September of 2012 was one of the wells where we recently installed artificial lift.
For the time being we are running one rig and expect to add a second rig once we have sufficient permits in place.
We anticipate investing approximately $150 million in the Paradox this year.
We are also very excited about the third leg of our oil growth strategy that is in the River Basin where we acquired some 24 500 net acres this past March.
One of the reasons we like this play is its stack pay that offers multiple horizons to develop.
This quarter two rigs were drilling and we had net oil production of approximately 2 000 barrels of oil equivalents daily.
We expect to invest approximately $260 million in the Powder River Basin this year and that includes both our acquisition costs as well as related follow on drilling capital.
We are excited about the future for our E&amp;P group which is positioned or sustained growth.
Now I'd like to return to our consolidated discussion.
We are pleased that we are able to continue our momentum to another solid quarter.
We have updated our 2014 funding requirements.
We continue to focus on growth and consolidated gross capital expenditures for 2014 projected now to be $1.1 billion of investment.
Funding this investment will come from a multiple of sources.
Operating cash flows are projected to be in the range of $600 million to $650 million this year.
Debt is expected to be in the range of $225 million to $275 million and asset sales of approximately $200 million to $300 million which does include the previously announced potential sale of just over 40 000 acres in Mountrail County.
And equity is now projected in the range of $130 million to $175 million.
This is down from our equity estimate early in the year whereby we gave it at $250 million to $300 million.
We are pleased with the company's performance thus far in 2014.
And we like the position we are in today considering substantial growth opportunities across all lines of business.
And we do continue to focus on two things that is execution and capitalizing on growth in our markets.
I'd like to thank you all for your time today.
And we'd like to be -- open the lines now and be happy to take any questions that you all might have.
Thanks again for your interest in MDU Resources.
Operator?   (Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
First I wanted to ask about the Dakota pipeline if you could just give us a little more color on where you stand there in terms of commitments and your discussions with customers of the expressed interest?   Sure Matt.
I am going to ask Steve Bietz he has been on the ground with that project add more color to that one.
Good morning Matt.
We have seen good interest in the Dakota pipeline.
As you know our open season ended in May May 30.
Responses were positive.
Really where we are at we continue our discussion most of those that have submitted responses as well as others who did not submit bids but have shown a lot of interest in the pipe indicating some that they need as a bit more time.
Early specifics around any other bids or responses that we have got are confidential at this time so not able to provide much there.
I would offer though that as we continue to have discussions with the various parties the whole new gas flaring rules well in the State of North Dakota continue to be brought up.
There are some rules that are being going to effect October 1st some flaring limits on various producers.
So that certainly got the attention of number of producers from what we have heard.
We -- I guess as we look at the project we still continue to believe it's a very good project.
It does two things.
One it provides another market for producers to move their product.
Today that's all kind of destined for the Chicago market.
Secondly it really helps deal with the flaring issues in terms of this new additional gas that can be captured it's got a market a place where to go and we think that capacity is needed.
But to move forward the project obviously we need to get commitments from those folks.
So we are going to continue to work with them.
And we are hopeful our goal is to get commitments that would allow us to really begin our pre-filing work with the FERC later this year.
So that's kind of where we are at as we indicated in the news release.
We look at updating as things move forward later this fall.
Thanks Steve.
That's helpful.
I guess can you give us any more precise timing on when we should expect an update? And also have you given any thought to I guess changing the size of the project? And I guess just finally when we get an update at this point would you expect it to be kind of a final decision one way or another this fall?  I think as we look at it we kind of left it this fall.
There is a lot of moving parts in.
If you will it's kind of a fluid process as we go through it.
So no specifics on a time in terms of the update.
As far as the project itself we are looking at some slight modifications.
The basic route remains the same.
If you look at that pipe kind of on the west end of it there is kind of a horseshoe if you will potential to adjust that a little bit may be a little straighter pipe cut off a little bit of that pipe size or length I should say.
But that's going to depend in part and kind of the commitments we received we think the original design is probably ideal for the various processing plants and activity in that area and let me think here.
Did I miss one of your questions? Well I guess well I guess I was just wondering if you think this fall you will get to the point where there is either a kind of go or no go? We are going to continue to look at the project.
Hopefully we are working with FIRC later this year.
If not I think we believe the project still makes a lot of sense.
So even if we're not to the point of being ready to move forward we're going to continue our activity to get parties to commit on a go-forward basis but our anticipation here is to provide the additional update later this call.
And just one more on the pipeline in your discussions with parties have expressed interest but who you haven't come to terms yet with.
Is there a comment sticking point in terms of tariff or length of commitment or they just kind of still grappling with these new regulations? I don't want to get into any details on that.
I hope you can appreciate that.
I don't think there is any one specific thing just kind of continue work with each of them and each have their different things that they're looking for if you will.
Okay.
Thanks and just one last one I guess for Doran could you let us know I guess how much equity you've done in the first half and should that guidance be further reduced by the planned sales of dry gas assets that you've indicated? Yes Matt so where are at first half of this year as we talked about earlier utilizing the ATM program.
We have utilized that so far this year we've issued approximately $130 million.
So the low-end of the revised range is really where we're at on a year-to-date basis through the ATM program.
So what I would say is we've also updated our asset sale range which is $200 million to $300 million that includes to David's point the sale of 4 300 net acres in the Bakken.
Also effective today we have signed a purchasing sale agreement with our sole Texas asset so that will also become a part of the asset sale range of $200 million $300 million.
And so assets sales have definitely become a key part of our funding strategy in 2014 to fund our capital investment needs still at $1.1 billion while offsetting the need for equity basically cutting our range in roughly half.
So $130 million to $175 million is our estimate for the rest.
For the rest of the year with a $130 million issued through June 30.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Cho with Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Can you provide some more color on operational issues and the downtime that you experienced during the quarter? Yes hi Christine it's Kent.
To be honest with the kind of a frustrating quarter for us operationally in the Paradox from the positive side we are really glad we've been able to continue to move the well costs down; we're seeing our best wells EURs even look better as we go forward.
So that's very encouraging.
But we've found is on our high rig wells that have been on plateau for a long period of time the 12-1 flowing 1 500 barrels a day the 18-1 flowing 1 000 barrels a day.
We need to put them on artificial lift.
In a typical field you put those on because it's still high rates and ESP but that doesn't work in the Paradox because of the paraffin and salt issue.
And so we've been -- we're going to use progressive cavity pumps and we just had a lot of operational issues with that.
So when you have a well like the 12-1 and the 18-1 that have experienced a lot downtime it really enhances your production.
So that was what the operational issues were.
Additionally because we weren't able to secure federal permits which is kind of in the sweet spot we looked at drilling on the west flanks of the ply because on the east flank where we drill the 36-1 well which is our second best well in the field we thought perhaps that same structure and production characteristics might exist on the west flank and we drilled two wells on same locations over there and we didn't get the same results.
So the combination of those two things well the Paradox is still not so potential it was a disappointing result for us in the second quarter from our production and earnings perspective but we are still very excited about Paradox.
I guess just two follow-ups on the stuff that you just said.
Are we going to see like potentially more of these operational issues as some of your other wells are going to have to go in our official lists? No I hope we learn the lessons once and apply it to the rest.
So I think what we have -- we just had some learning curve with these high rate progressive cavity pumps.
We are working with two different vendors to provide that to try to get the best service on it.
I mean it's not like you say you need technology it's about getting that technology to work in the Paradox.
I think we will get that behind us soon.
Okay.
And then the other follow-up was what exactly is going on with the permitting situation that you weren't able to secure it in the sweet spot are you going to be able to get it as a matter of when not if just may be some more color on that? Yes absolutely it's just a matter of timing.
It's not a matter of if we will get it at least I don't believe that the federal permits are just much slower coming in than we would like for the development we would like to do there.
But we continue to work with the BLM office and we will continue to do that when we have sufficient permits we will go back to operating to it.
You have a sense of time of when that could potentially be.
Like is it going to be like year-end or is it probably a 2015 event? Yes it's really difficult for us to forecast that.
But I think it's sometime in one of those two timeframes either by the end of the year or 2015.
And I mean how easy was it to put down the second rig and how easy is it going to be to pick one up later on? Yes unlike areas like the Bakken where that's really difficult to do the size of rig et cetera in the location of the Paradox that's much easier.
So we knew this was a potential risk.
So we had structured our contracts accordingly.
So there is no costs and I mean it's always hard to predict the future but we believe we can get a rig back when we needed.
And then last one on the EMP.
You gave oil production for the second quarter at 3 290 barrels per day can you tell us what production is today and then I know you've given some color for production in 3Q if new wells coming on but will you continue to give us quarterly guidance with the multi wells pads that you are doing that might cost some lumpiness in production growth.
I think we will continue to have some lumpiness and I think we should anticipate that.
I would say August is going to be an important month for us.
We've got three wells that from the drilling look really encouraging and that could add significantly to our production.
But rather than forecasted I think I will just wait.
When we have either -- we'll give you an update when we announce our third quarter earnings or if it's something significant that we feel we need to announce we will do that at that point.
But I guess since second quarter until now you haven't put on anything new.
Is that right on the oil side? Yes that's correct.
Okay.
And then last one from me.
I saw that in the press release the North Dakota's Minnesota pipeline the potential to interconnect with Alliance would this be a repeat or delivery point for your pipeline? I think probably Chris this is Steve.
We could probably do either; we would anticipate it would be a delivery point into Alliance.
Your next question comes from the line of Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead with your question.
A couple of questions Steve not to continue to kill the pipeline but just another question could you may be remind us of what the rules are that have been proposed I guess are into effect in October on the gas flowing rules and then I guess how that is playing into your discussions? Sure I can try Holly.
I am not the expert on those rules but the basics of them are that the state has set a target for gas flaring kind of the amount that needs to be captured if not meeting that target as an individual company there could potentially be shutting in some of that production to meet the target.
They would then look at that kind of on a more granular basis by field or by area as I understand it.
They've got that target set I believe it's to capture 70 -- I think it's 3% but don't quote me on that.
The rules are out there by October and then as time goes forward those percentages the amount of capture increased and the amount of flaring decreased.
So as those targets or as we move forward those targets get less and less ability that flare gas and so there is kind of a continuing movement down on that so more and more gas would be captured or there would be wells that are shut in I say shut in I think they would allow in most cases 100 barrels a day to be produced.
On the gas side? No on the oil side 100 barrels a day.
Okay.
And then may be just the last one on the pipeline it would be.
Is there any producer pushback from an end market perspective it seems like there are a lot of ablation pipelines right now targeting the Chicago market? I'm sorry any pushback from whom Holly? On just the producer side trying to get a route elsewhere than Chicago? Really that's what our pipeline trying to offer them a route to somewhere other than Chicago.
Where this would kind of serve eastern North Dakota through the Viking pipeline as well as the Minneapolis market through Great Lakes we would move into dilute Minnesota under Wisconsin and into Michigan.
So that's really I think what our pipeline is designed to do.
Perfect okay.
And then may be one question on construction you pointed to a potential weather for the rest of the guidance.
Just thinking we've had one month of your kind of peak quarter for construction now behind us as the weather cooperated thus for and that first month? Holly I'm going to ask Dave Barney to address that given he has got this $764 million of backlog that's accumulated.
So Dave you want to take that one.
Sure good morning Holly.
Yes the weather as for June obviously affected us but we had great weather in July we got a good backlog our margins are picking up somewhat on our construction backlog.
We've seen increases on aggregate ready mix and we expect those to continue throughout the year.
We just need good weather for the rest of the year to finish the work we have out there.
Got it.
And then may be one for Kent on the Paradox.
I think there is a lot of moving pieces here with the dropping the rig the federal versus state can you just tell us how were these three wells are and then I guess what the progression is as we move toward year-end and in terms of where we're going to be drilling how many wells et cetera? Right we continue in terms of number of wells we can drill we continue to improve the speed at which we drove it.
So between 45 to 60 days spud to spud and kind of -- and may be even a little bit better than that.
So that's encouraging.
So you can punch through the number of wells you drill based on the one rig schedule say through the end of the year.
In terms of the three wells two were on the eastern side of the Cane Creek unit and one is I believe it's our further south location that we've drilled which is encouraging because we just moved the rig down to the newly acquired acreage that we picked up.
If you remember we announced for the first quarter we picked up 35 000 acres.
We've added another 11 000 acres to that.
So we've got 45 000 46 000 acres down there and we're about to spot our first well down on that.
So it's encouraging on where the supply is going.
And then even on where we drilled on the northwest flank well that was disappointing those wells didn't quite turn out.
There is still lots of prospectivity that what we believe the sweet spot is continues well out into that area we were just hopeful that the northwest flank would be as encouraging as the east flank.
So I think at the end of third quarter we will have some hopefully interesting results to talk about.
(Operator Instructions).
Your next question comes from the line of Timm Schneider with ISI Group.
First of all on the pipeline would you guys ever be willing to take on a partner here is something that's 100% MDU? Timm I think as we've looked at the project we've looked at it in terms of building it ourselves but certainly wouldn't preclude the idea of having a partner if they brought the appropriate things to the table.
And I guess what would that be would that be capital would that just be an activity other systems or is it just too early to tell right now? I think certainly some commitment on the pipe potentially might be something we would be looking for or may be other benefits that I don't really want to get into Timm that would make sense and help the project itself.
Got it thank you.
And then just shifting to Paradox for a second.
Can you just tell us how much of your (inaudible) State versus Federal? That's a good question; I don't know the exact number.
I'm going to say we probably got about 10% state 90% federal.
Got it.
And then I guess kind of longer-term dropping that one rig what does that do to if you also kind of give us a sense for longer-term production growth rates out of that base.
I'm assuming 2014 won't be affected too much as you kind of complete some wells and inventory but what could be the impact be on 2015 year-over-year? Yes obviously it's got to have some impact I think more importantly though as if we continue to drill good wells with the one rig we will continue to see strong growth from the Paradox.
Hopefully it's just I call it a speed bump pause where may be we are down with one rig for six months and then we're back up with the second rig.
And so it's not a big impact.
But I think there is a lot more variability in the quality of well we drill that will impact the growth versus one rig and two rigs.
What's at the heart of the BLM issue that's just because they don't have enough people or is it just because it's more strict in the environmental front what's going on there? Timm I wish I knew.
And it's never a good thing to speculate or pass negative comments about your regulator.
So I'm just going to pass.
Got it.
Last one from me is on the Powder River basin for some of the gating factors in terms of ramping up little quicker there that's just completely contingent on your partner there? I'm sorry Timm could you say that again? I'm just wondering what the -- what's some of the factor are in terms of ramping up in the Powder River basin or is that just completely up to your partner? Yes so we are in a non-operative position and I have to tell you we're pleased with the quality of the work that our operator is doing.
We're seeing improvements and the well costs come down.
We're seeing improvements in how we're completing the well.
They've very much engaged us in helping with that.
So from that part it's very positive.
I think they are committed to at this moment a two rig program.
We would like to go to a three rig program.
But we're still in the acreage capture delineation and I think they're being wise too about not trying to go faster than they believe it's prudent.
So it's more just a little bit of a philosophy difference and but we're still seeing good production growth out there.
In March we were at 1600 BOEs and now we're at 2000 BOEs.
We don't have any new completions thus for but they will start coming as the new wells start to be completed over the next couple of months.
So hopefully that will continue to grow through the rest of the year.
And last one from me is how are the flaring regulations affecting your or going to affect you guys on the E&amp;P side in the Bakken at all? We feel really good about what we're doing.
So right now we are only flaring 6% for gas we produce which is very good.
And if you kind of look at what the flaring rules are that's kind of the close to the target and I think 2020 or something they hope to get it down to 5%.
So we're in a good place.
So I don't see this as a big impact for us we've always been focused on trying to capture our natural gas and it's only when we drill real outline areas that we aren't able to do that.
I think those rules though as Steve tried to allude those are very positive for the pipeline.
In some areas of the Bakken which we are not in it's the economics are really marginal to collect the gas and these rules are going to make that a higher priority which means there is going to be more gas collected which is a positive thing.
And Steve and his team is trying to be a part of the solution here for what's good for North Dakota and good for the country.
So I think as Steve sort of alluded it's going to maybe take a little time getting everybody on board but we need that pipeline to actually follow through on the rule.
Your next question comes from the line of Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your question.
Just a clarification on oil production.
Does the 10% to 15% range assume the three new wells in the Paradox are successful or would that represent upside? No that includes those.
It does.
Okay.
And then shifting to WBI in the past you talked about doubling invested capital in earnings and obviously Dakota Prairie is a big part of that.
But given that were already seeing a doubling of earnings in the first half of this year seems like there is a lot of upside to that target once Dakota comes online is that fair or am I missing something there?  Well certainly the Dakota pipeline but more double are invested capital and our results (inaudible).
Oh I'm sorry.
I missed the refine.
The Dakota Prairie refinery? Okay.
Dakota Prairie refinery that is part of our investment activity and we built that into our targets so we look at doubling our invested capital over this period.
Dakota Prairie is part of that doubling and I think may be what you are alluding to.
We would expect that to provide a very good return from that investment and so certainly helping our earnings on a go forward basis.
Okay.
And then last one.
I know you've done some pre-filling activity on the Wind Ridge pipeline.
Can you talk about the status and size of that opportunity and when that might its way into the base plan? Sure.
Just a little bit of background on the Wind Ridge project.
This is something that we have been working with CHS.
And CHS has announced a proposed plant a fertilizer plant to be built near Spiritwood North Dakota.
These fertilizer plants are large consumers of natural gas; it's really the feedstock for their process is natural gas.
So we work with them closely.
The project would anticipate a 95 mile 16 inch pipeline running from the northern border system up to the location of that facility.
Certainly it would be a significant investment for us with the positive returns for us.
As far as where we are at in the process we recently just initiated and requested a pre-filing process with the FERC to begin work on that pipeline.
At the end of the day this pipeline is really tied to CHS as decision to move forward or not.
So if they were to move forward to plant we would move forward with building this pipe and really that rests with CHS right now.
Great.
And are you seeing any additional opportunities similar to this?  We are out in the market every day.
And certainly having discussions with various parties nothing I am prepared to discuss today though.
This marks the last call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Just a couple follow-ups.
You mentioned that you've been encouraged by the coil tubing with cemented liners technique in the Bakken.
Are there any numbers that you can share to help put that into context? Yes sure Matt this is Kent.
So we don't have a large data set because we are only running two rigs.
So we have to take this a little bit of a grain of salt.
But in terms of middle Bakken we actually saw when we compared it to our 30-stage sliding sleeve and this is when we used our coil with much higher states count.
We actually got about a 60% improvement in EUR and rate and so that was really encouraged.
But to be honest with you we don't have a lot of middle Bakken drilling left to do.
So what's more important is what we saw in the Three Forks and there we saw a 38% improvement.
And so that's still pretty encouraging.
Now that comes at a cost of about $1.50 million more per well.
And what we are finding is there is not one solution that applies of all of our acreage.
We have to look at where we are how many wells we have already drilled in that section etc.
And so it's a small data set but at least it gives us encouragement.
And we are going to look to continue to go with the coil tubing the higher stage count.
We are experimenting with slick water and the amount of proppant we put in there particularly in the areas where we have a low number of wells in this basin unit that's where we see the biggest increase.
The flip side is where there is more wells in the spacing unit.
It's more difficult to justify the additional cost.
Thanks Kent.
That was helpful.
And then just one on the utility side.
You mentioned customer growth has remained pretty strong.
Apologies I missed this.
But could you quantify how much your customer counts were year-over-year at the end of second quarter?   Thanks Matt.
Frank here.
We are seeing customer count across our eight states at about 2%.
We also see an increase customer count rate up in the Bakken area about 3% on gas and about 5% on electric up there.
So again fabulous growth across our entire utilities segment.
Thanks a lot.
And one last question on refinery.
It's been a quite a while since you first came out with the guidance on the refinery and crack spreads and commodity prices tend to move around.
Like I don't expect that you run the numbers every day.
But could you give us a sense based on current market conditions how the returns would compare to your guidance at the plant we are operating today? I think your point is on there is a lot of moving parts in that EBITDA targets that we provided.
And we provide a range of $70 million to $90 million of which we would participate half of that.
I guess as we look at it today that's still in appropriate range for our facility.
And I guess as time goes on we feel kind of outside that range.
We'll look to provide some additional information.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Well as you heard we are undoubtedly excited and focused on executing our substantial growth opportunities that are right in front of us along with identifying new opportunities.
We do continue to push forward and better leveraging our expertise across our business units for instance our Dakota Prairie Refinery project.
We appreciate all of you participating on the call today.
And will continue to pledge to keep you updated as we move throughout the year.
Thanks again for your interest in MDU Resources.
Operator? This concludes today's MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carmen and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions) This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern on November 18.
The conference ID number for the replay is13274434.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 13274434.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the call over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our earnings release conference call.
This conference is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you would like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Quarter and the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks from Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are: Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Frank Morehouse President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; Kent Wells Vice Chairman of the Corporation and CEO of Fidelity Exploration and Production; and Nathan Ring Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I'll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Thank you Doran and good morning thank you for your interest in MDU Resources.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss the results of our third quarter as well as our announcements yesterday related to the upcoming marketing of our fidelity EMP company and our evaluation of a second diesel refinery.
For the third quarter adjusted earnings were $84.9 million or $0.44 per share compared to $92.3 million or $0.49 per share last year.
Our construction materials and services companies combined reported record quarterly earnings of $65.1 million up 6% compared to last year.
The prior earnings record came pre-recession way back in 2007.
The combined group has now had 12 consecutive quarters of year-over-year improvements.
Construction materials reported a record quarter with 12% increase in earnings and only 5% revenue growth.
They have clearly taken advantage of continuing improvements in the economy and are also benefiting from the favorable weather that is extending the final stages of the northern tire construction season.
These conditions and outstanding performance turned into the best quarter ever for Knife River.
The group has substantially completed their largest construction job in their history as well which is the $55 million Watford City by-pass in the heart of the Bakken.
This project included nine miles of four lanes with about 520 000 tons of total aggregates.
Our construction services group has had a strong year with year-to-date earnings at a near record phase.
They continue to focus on optimizing their national presence as well as securing good quality projects.
Looking forward we are seeing positive momentum at our construction businesses.
Material prices have been improving which is a good sign of an economic recovery.
And we are seeing strong bidding opportunities and have added backlogs since the September 30 combined backlog of 824 million.
With our lower cost structure improving economies our interest in resuming acquisition activity in the construction space we are optimistic that we will continue to see growth for our construction businesses.
At our combined utility group we reported a loss of $3.1 million for the quarter.
Our electric utility experienced 3% decline in sales to residential customers as cooler than normal weather affected our air conditioning load.
Higher O&amp;M expenses related to payroll and benefits were also a factor with rate recovery partially offsetting the earnings decline.
And at our natural gas utility group we experienced a normal seasonal loss.
With the plan record capital program this group is focused on a number of major growth projects.
In addition to bringing on the 88 megawatt of new gas fire generation this past August a growing customer demand has us planning for our next generation projects which could include some wind generation.
Our $90 million upgrade to the Big Stone station is on track and anticipated to be completed next year.
We also have the 345 TV transmission line that is a MISO multi-value project expected to be completed in 2019 as well as opportunities surrounding our initial investment in L&amp;G for additional L&amp;G development projects.
It is very exciting time for our utility business where we expect to grow rate based by approximately 9% compounded annually over the next five years.
Next moving on to our pipeline and energy service group here we reported earnings of $5.1 million for the quarter.
Our Pronghorn natural gas and oil midstream asset continued to produce good results with higher gathering and processing volumes.
We also benefited from the implementation of higher rates effective May 1 related to a FERC rate case settlement.
Our pipeline group is certainly positioned well to take advantage of a number of growth opportunities.
We are on track and approximately 90% complete under Dakota prior refinery.
Today we have approximately 770 workers on the site on an ongoing daily basis and we are expecting it to go into service around the end of the year.
We also like the team and the expertise we have developed on this project.
There continues to be high demand for diesel here in North Dakota currently state wide diesel consumption is averaging about 59 000 barrels per day with only 22000 barrels refined within the state.
Given this substantially under supplied North Dakota market we are excited to announce that we are seriously evaluating the building of a second refinery here.
We have identified a potential site and have started permitting work right now.
We would expect the spring 2015 construction start should we proceed with the project.
We also recently added an approximately $120 million project our wind ridge pipeline project that is designed to take natural gas off the northern border system and to deliberate near Spiritwood North Dakota where an announced fertilizer facility will be built.
The plan is for 95 mile pipeline to deliver some 90 000 MSF per day with potential for expansion opportunities.
Here are projected in service date for the wind ridge project is in 2017.
In addition we have opportunities to expand our midstream processing operations building upon our successful investment of the Pronghorn facility here in North Dakota.
We are encouraged about the growth potential we see for our pipeline group.
Now moving on to our E&amp;P where adjusted earnings were $16.6 million this past quarter.
Oil prices have decreased by 12% since last year and we did experience higher DD&amp;A as well.
We also had a natural gas production decline of 27% largely driven by the sale of non-strategic natural gas assets last year.
Since we last updated you we successfully closed on the sales of approximately 4 300 net acres for Montreal County and our operated acreage in south Texas.
We closed these on September 30 and October 1 respectively.
And as we announced in our earnings news release yesterday we plan to market our Fidelity expiration and production company.
Although we continue to see attractive investment opportunities at Fidelity the capital required to effectively grow the business we feel would compromise our ability to fund this substantial opportunities we are seeing at our other lines of business.
We expect to grow our utility pipeline and construction business units in a more meaningful way and peruse that growth with a lower overall business risk profile.
Once we have finalized our latest five year capital expenditure projections we will make that information available as well.
For the balance of this year we will be preparing some market fidelity with the expectation that a data room will be opening in early 2015.
We plan to publicly disclose evaluation information once we have concluded the marketing process.
At this time we are not going to discuss further specifics about the sales process other than to say that we expect to peruse the sales process in a deliberate and thorough manner.
During the marketing and sale process Fidelity intends to focus its operations on production.
We expect to continue to develop our acreage with three operated rigs one each in the Bakken the Paradox and East Texas.
In the Powder River basin there are two or three non-operative rigs producing good results.
Overall we have reaffirmed our earnings guidance for the year in the range of $1.40 to $1.50 per share.
Weather will be a factor in our action results for the fourth quarter as well as commodity prices.
So to wrap up my former remarks today MDU Resources will continue to focus on executing on both organic opportunities as well as acquisition related growth potential that exists in all of our remaining businesses we believe we are well positioned to succeed.
I certainly appreciate your interest and commitment to our MDU Resources organization and will be happy to open the lines to questions at this time.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Paul.
Just to clarify few things.
You guys see a potential sale should we pretty much think that this is the business is pretty very likely that you’ve tackled will actually sell this business I mean how does that term potential sale mean in other words is there what are the chances that it won’t be so like a--? Well Paul in the news release we note that we have retained the services of our financial advisers to assist us in this process.
We do plan to market the company.
We talked about the timing for preparing for a data room starting in early 2015 and then Paul we are going to allow the process to continue at that point and we need to determine at the end of the process what exactly we will do but we do believe that it will be a potential sale.
Okay.
With respect to I know you guys aren’t going to get very specific on evaluation stuff is there any update we might hear about in terms of proving and probable or does the tax basis of the assets and what have you how should we think about all that? Paul I think you helped answer that one in your prefacing comments.
I think we will be getting ahead of ourselves to talk about those details.
At this point in time I think those will be certainly discussed at the appropriate time.
Okay.
In terms of the company going forward potentially without this business how should we think as you mentioned you guys will be a lower risk entity how should we think about what the potential capital structure amount of leveraging might have in that business in the company as a whole without Fidelity? Let me do a quick walk through at our business units as I see them Paul.
Let me think about our pipeline and energy service business clearly with the first refinery nearing completion at about 90%.
We are expecting to be on service date at or about the first of the year and then announcing today that we are evaluating and have already started the permitting process of second refinery yet to officially proceed on that but I will say we are well under our way.
I think that helps you understand some of the growth opportunities that we have at the pipeline and energy service.
You combine that with the pipeline project in eastern north Dakota $120 million pipeline project that would be for the fertilizer plant and we do know north eastern north Dakota is under serviced from a pipeline perspective and so we will need to determine the appropriate size and how we kind of help find the market over there.
When I turn to our utility group we are already in a record capital program.
We have announced previously 1.3 billion.
We talked about some of the generation aids some of the environmental upgrades keeping up with the growth that we are seeing in the Bakken.
We don't see that going down.
In fact we see that likely trending higher.
When I think of our both construction businesses really for the past well since the great recession hit we really ask those businesses to I will say work on their cost structure work on their organic growth but really from an M&amp;A perspective we haven’t consciously deployed capital there in a meaningful way and so this will be a change but it's more of resumption to our growth that we had from 1992 to 2008 where we required almost 130 companies largely construction companies that were part of a roll up strategy.
So we would see that the M&amp;A activity to I will say resume in more meaningful way at our construction businesses.
Turning to your capital question we would expect to provide more details into the market following board approval for our capital budgets and we would pledge that we will keep you updated as soon as we have that fully approved internally but I think that gives you some direction there notwithstanding as we see Fidelity as the part of the overall business mix.
Okay.
I understand.
Okay but then in terms of the credit outlook the credit rating outlook has that changed in terms of your goal in that or should we think about potentially changing as well with respect to the sales or --? Yes.
So our credit ratings are BBB+ at two of the agencies or both of the agencies.
We would see that certainly continuing if not slightly strengthening based on this but clear that’s up to the rating agencies and we have to demonstrate to them as well.
I don't believe this lessens are – I don't think this increases our risk any I think it actually potentially lessens it but that’s really up to the rating agencies ultimately.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of Christine Cho with Barclays.
Good morning.
Good morning Christine.
I guess let me start with the potential elimination of capital intensive E&amp;P businesses like you mentioned your E&amp;P businesses are much more stable I might be getting a little ahead of myself but is a potential change in the dividend policy on the table meaning could you possibly take your payout ratio up and respecting that you don't want to talk about the marketing process but would you be able to kind of give us color on what the potential use of proceeds would be? Yes Christine and I think we don't want to get ahead of ourselves today as we just announced the marketing and the potential sales for the business.
I will pledge to you in the market that we would update you as appropriate through the process.
I do think dividend policy is always a conversation that we have with the board on an ongoing basis and that clearly would have to be decision made into the future as well that I don't want to speculate on today.
Our business mix would change a little bit as a result of the potential sale and outside of that I just don't want to get ahead of ourselves here today.
Okay.
And then it's probably no co-incident that we started to get a little bit of look into all the other projects you are contemplating the second diesel plant and the wind ridge pipeline some things at the utilities kind of can you – which one are you most excited about and how should we think about where most of the opportunities are? I mean is it pretty much bleak between all of the segments or is it kind of skewed towards something else kind of any color there? I would add some color on and maybe just a little more detail on my earlier comments when I think between the utility and the pipeline and midstream business we have considerable line of sites for those types of investment and I noted those so I don't want to repeat myself but I think we highlighted some of the more specifics there.
I think the added emphasis here though beyond those which is very much line of site and we will commit to provide the market the capital allocation we see for the next five years going forward.
We would anticipate doing that here in the not so distance future.
Is the change at our both our construction businesses and the internal commitment to resume that acquisition activity that hereto for the last I’ll say about six to seven years has really been absent and that would be more of an added and that there is a necessary direct line of site there but clearly given our footprints we have in those business we think we are well positioned to start looking at whether it will bolt-on or other type of acquisitions.
Okay.
And thank you and then I guess just at the diesel topping plant it looks like the cost went up slightly while EBITDA expectations came down a bit.
Can you talk about what drove those changes and then with respect to the second plant that you are thinking about are you going to take on a partner for that as well? Christine I will turn that over to Steve Bietz because Steve has been the team who has been working entirely to get the first unit to this point and they are right in the throes of this evaluating the second unit.
So Steve? Thanks Dave and yes we do have plan to work on here.
As it relates to our capital cost I guess a slight uptick from what we had disclosed previously we had a very wet late summer early fall.
We got about 7-8 inches of rain on the refinery site.
That certainly had an effect on overall construction cost.
And then secondly we have added some additional cost just to give us more certainty on the commissioning side.
We have added some additional resources there to help us on the commissioning.
So that’s the biggest driver from the capital perspective.
As far as the EBITDA forecast we lowered those slightly again as we look today I think and you look across the industry frac spreads have come down some so we have reflected some of that in our forecast.
And then secondly as we have gotten more clarity on some of the cost as we look at some of our rail cost they are a bit higher than what we had originally anticipated.
So that drove us to drive that a bit downward.
Relative to the second refinery I think Dave has touched on it.
We are certainly in a very good position to move forward with that.
We have got a team that demonstrates our ability to move forward with that.
In terms of the partner we have talked some with Calumet on the second refinery and exactly how are two companies participate in the second refinery that's really to be determined down the road.
Okay.
Great.
And then last question from me with respect to the oil production guidance I thought you had revised it earlier in the year down to 10% to 16% and that had already counted for the sale of the Montreal assets.
Am I mistaken just more curious if that wasn’t like the driver for the revision this quarter and then you talked about wanting to focus on operations at E&amp;P this year but we noticed well I noticed that there were no hedges put on and I don't think the oil prices have started to deteriorate until after third quarter so just – is that something that you are not looking to do given your marketing process just more color there? Yes Christine its Kent.
The combination of the sales and also the production challenges we have had in the paradox have let to the 3% to 7% production growth.
So it's the combination of those that at least is there.
In terms of the hedging yes I certainly wish I had anticipate the big drop in the oil production but we didn’t and with the backward dated curve we are fully hedged in the fourth quarter of this year.
Limited hedges in the first quarter of next year and the curve was so backward dated obviously now I wish had done something different.
But that's what we have done in hedging.
And then with our decision to market the company we will probably be fairly passive in terms of our hedging particularly in light of what current prices are today.
Perfect.
Thank you so much for the time.
Thank you Christine.
Your next question is from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brent.
Yes actually most of my questions were just answered but the decline in backlog in both construction businesses is this more of timing issue and could you kind of discuss the overall pipeline and the degree of its ability you have right now? I am going to call both Dave Barney and Jeff Thiede to answer that but I will just preface that because Dave Barney isn’t very good at this about talking about turning that major backlog in the third quarter from backlog into net income into that record quarter but with that leading Dave would you talk about our backlog going forward? Okay.
Good morning Brent.
We had – we worked quite a bit of backlog in the third quarter.
Actually 288 million of backlog compared to 205 million backlog in the third quarter of 2013.
So we worked up quite a bit of backlog.
But this schedule looks very positive for almost all our areas Brent.
So it's just the matter of executing on what' out there and adding to our backlog.
If you look at our backlog it's about $50 million off and that's about our Watford city job but we expect to add good backlog with good margins going forward Brent.
Jeff.
Good morning Brent.
We have had few quarters of higher than typical backlog in our business.
We have focused on those projects and the large significant projects that we completed has given us a proven track record on successfully executing those large projects.
We have done that through our planning our safety our productivity of collaboration.
So we have seen good results as a result of that.
Meanwhile we have – we are looking for good opportunities to refill that backlog where we can be successful in all the areas of our business.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Brent.
Your next question is from the line of Matthew Tucker with KeyBanc.
Hey good morning Dave and team.
Good morning Matt.
Dave could you first just talk a little bit more about the timing of decision to peruse sale of fidelity obviously commodity prices have come down quite a bit in the past few weeks and you just recently countered these operational issues in the paradox so I guess why now initiate the process versus waiting a few weeks or months to see how these things play out? Yes that's fair.
I would characterize it Matt and we have had these conversations been on the various investor tours etcetera.
We ongoing have a conversation with our board and evaluation of our business units and they determine what’s the right mix where is the capital being allocated how do we think about the businesses at a point in time and how we think about the go forward basis.
And I would say more recently we had a comprehensive internal review again with our board of directors along with some outside advisers looking at I will say all the growth potential at our business lines that we have and in essence it comes down to are we – would it be effectively compromising some of the gross opportunities we see at some businesses by continuing on the same path that we have been on.
So this comes down to somewhat of a capital allocation question as we think between growing centralized the business different of business have different capital needs and (inaudible) ongoing for some time Matt certainly time state is perfect but on a go forward basis one can never could predict commodity prices but we can see the line of site for certain growth opportunities of projects that we highlighted here today and so that I think is the overall driver here.
It's ongoing.
We continue to evaluate.
We think right now this is the best strategic direction for the corporation.
Thanks Dave and a couple of follow-up from that.
Would you be – would you consider selling fidelity and pieces if you can't find the buyer for the whole entity and would you pull the trigger on sale if it would be diluted to earnings per share? Yes so far as the business at Fidelity E&amp;P it would be I will say our initial preference to look at it as a company or an entity type sale a collective sale that being said we will keep our options open as other possibilities and we will just have to see what the process holds in that regard.
And I guess I won't get ahead of ourselves other question relates a little bit proceeds and use of proceed and what do we expect that to be and how that might affect the earnings per share and various tax advantages or not I think those questions are better answered once we go through the process and determine what the process yields we would be in much better shape rather than speculate at that today.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then we discussed at length the operational issues that you encountered in the Paradox space and is there any update you can give us on the progress you have made there since the Analyst Day? Yes Matt it's Kent.
In terms of our artificial lift issues specifically with the 12 one and the 18 one we have had those consistently on production for the last month and a half or so ever since we last talked in September.
And so that's been good.
Now what we need to do is go through the optimization phase combine the two of them that has been producing between 800 barrels a day and we need to look to increase that over the next month or so.
So we have centered ourselves up to do that.
In terms of the pressure trendy analysis work that we have done we have looked at that.
It looks like the wells were not damaged and the issue there is the reservoir is just tight and this is where our work on tracking the wells we have been so fortunate to display to not have to frac wells and I think in some cases that will still be the case going forward in another cases we will need to look at fracing these wells and we will be doing our first fracs week.
These are not the big natural fracs that we have to do in other places like river basin or Bakken would be lot less stages lot smaller and so we are looking forward to doing that.
I am sure we will earn something in the first one and we will probably look to do the second one shortly after that kind of opens up that area that’s been tighter.
And then Matt just back to your earlier question on the whole company we kind of see Fidelity as the unique opportunity for the right investor.
We are pretty much completely focused on the Rockies down so it's kind of the unique Rockies platform where someone could come in with some really good cash flowing asset a great organization in place and so put aside the oil price because obviously we like that higher but it could be a unique opportunity for someone to make a move into the U.S.
oil shale platform.
Thanks Kent that was helpful.
Last question apologize if I missed this but there is an update on the Dakota pipeline and what's your level of optimism at this point that you will still be able to get commitments necessary to move forward with that project? Thank Matt.
I will ask Steve he is much closer that than I’m to talk about the Dakota pipe.
We are still pushing hard in terms of our marketing efforts of the pipeline.
And I think we have seen some developments that we are continuing to pursue those and as long as we see interest associated with that project we continue to try to advance that project.
Nothing to report new today but working hard out at it I think bottom-line we see we really continue to believe there is a need for the pipeline with reduced flurrying increased gas production in the area.
We think there is a need for it and we are going to keep pushing forward with the project.
Thanks a lot guys I’ll jump back in the queue.
Okay thanks Matt.
Your next question is from the line of Timm Schneider with Evercore ISI.
Hey guys just a couple of quick ones.
In terms of the proposed E&amp;P sale Dave would you say this was something you guys looked at the couple of years out in the curve and you said $80 or so and that was main driver was it really you didn’t think you you have to write acreage in the right places? I would say Timm when you think about the capital deployment we touched on there already some today but when we fast forward even our own internal review of our business opportunities whether it’s be the pipeline or midstream the utility and then thinking about acquisition activity at the construction businesses that is the major driver right now as to how we effectively grow those businesses without compromising them and that really is the driver as we see it today.
What’s the legacy decline rate at the EMP business if you were to stop drilling just overall? Timm I don’t have a good because it’s really very – we have very low decline rates in our Baker and Bowdoin Anterior Creek fields and of course higher in the Bakken Paradox the wells stay flat for quite some time.
I don’t have a good number for you.
We don’t intend to completely stop drilling unless oil prices continue to cause this to want to do that.
Now I think we are clearly looking to slow down a bit because one thing we’ve always learned is oil prices decline it takes there’s a delay till the cost structure comes down and we won't let that play there is no reason to continue to drill in a high $70 oil world if you are still affording costs that are supportive of a $100 well.
So we will hesitate but we won't stop drilling.
And you guys have to tax spaces on the E&amp;P business? Hey Timm this is Doran.
We haven’t publicly disclosed that I think what we would want to do is may be give you a little bit more color commentary once we have more specifics around how the process plays out.
Got it.
Last one from me the size of the potential other stopping plans should we think about that kind of the same size as the one you already have that $20 000 because I think that way you don’t need to get the EPA parameters if I remember correctly? Timm I would say if you think about number 1 likely number 2 would look very similar if not a twin.
Got it.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Thanks.
Good morning.
It’s Faisel from Citigroup.
Just a few questions.
Good morning Faisel.
Good morning David.
Would you consider also spinning off the E&amp;P business.
Faisel I think the process that we’ve set up and have a number of outcomes and I think we need to just go through that process before marketing a bit and determine what we best do at the end of the process.
So I don’t want to get ahead of ourselves again and I have said that more than once today but I think that’s as transparent as I can be as to not predicting the future with total certainty.
Okay and then how the pro-reserves change very much as at the end of the year your last year report.
Yes we haven’t disclosed what are our reserves is we only do that once a year but there is nothing to be concerned about if that’s what your question is.
Okay.
Got you.
And then you said you won't stop drilling but you are looking to slowdown.
Can you sort of provide little more angularity on it how many rigs are you running or you running how many rigs do you plan to sort of ranch it down to? Yes.
So we currently have one rig running in the Bakken and we would expect that to continue we have one rig running in the Paradox and depending upon permitting and how our track works etcetera we could either continue with that or take a slight positive in that program and then we have one rig in East Texas and when it finishes well it’s on it was always set to come down for a few months period till we complete the first two wells and then decide how to continue on with the program.
Okay.
As you think about sort of the sale process here how does that factor in and also into you are the build out of you’re the refinery in North Dakota I mean in theory you are sort of someone integrated between production and refining.
So is there I guess by sort of selling the E&amp;P business do you lose some of that integration? Faisel this is Kent I will just say something and then maybe turn it over to Steve as well.
And let me just finish I didn’t want to forget our non-operated rigs in the Powder River basin as Dave talked about before we’ve got two to three rigs running in the Powder River Basin as well and we would expect that to continue on but those are non operated rigs and we will just have to see what happens there.
In terms of the refinery and our production in the Stark County I mean whether we looked at it as a natural hedge but whether we are operating that production or someone else’s the decision on whether that production goes to the refinery was always going to be a third party arrangement between the two and so I think that won't change.
Steve? We would need to pay a market price for that.
So it does create as you mentioned an internal hedge for us but from an operational prospect and integration there really not much effect.
Okay got it.
Do you guys have any well reserves in the Powder River to report of any IP rates? We had alluded earlier that we drilled a first really good first frontier well which we have and because there is still acreage to be picked up our partners there are do not want to release that information so we won't be but we are very encouraged in both the first and the second frontier in the Powder.
Okay.
Thanks guys appreciate the time.
Yes thank you Faisel.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc.
Hey guys just a few follow ups.
On the requirement of Prairie refinery the new guidance you provided for the first year of operations is that kind of a good run rate to you is it beyond the first year or is there any reason that the run rate would revert back up to your previous guidance? Matt that’s really based on a full one year kind of run rate.
So and as you go forward it would be similar with the same assumptions as we look at the refinery and think about 2015 I think there we would just need to see what challenges and how well we bring up and commission the plant well it will be up and running on day one or it may take us a little while to work out a few bugs but the rate that we have disclosed is kind of a full 12 months run rate.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then as you are evaluating the second refinery I guess where the key considerations what would prevent you from moving forward with that second refinery and also would you plan on that being developed in another 50:50 partnership with Calumet or someone else or would you be going it alone? I guess in terms of the economics of the plant obviously on the onset I would expect them to be somewhere to the first refinery how are we are going through a market stay both and kind of the input of crude in a specific location as well as the products that are produced to diesel so forth and our ability to market those and what value received for those so that’s part of it.
We certainly have learned a lot through the first refinery and how does that knowledge and that all play into our construction cost and so forth and how do we kind of look at that in a different location so we are going to work through the economics but I think as we said here today I would expect them to be similar.
As far as Calumet I mentioned earlier we certainly talked to them about this potential second refinery and really how Calumet has to participate in the second refinery will determine that down the road.
So not going to get ahead of ourselves to use in Dave’s term.
Okay thanks Steve and then last question on construction services do you like the margins there were lighter than they have been in the past several quarters.
In contrast with the construction materials business where they’re much stronger but could you just comment on what the reason was for the decline in margins there and is that kind of some one-off or is there some kind of changes in your pricing backlog or market conditions that implies you could continue to see some margin erosion going forward? Yes Matt there are lot of forces that contribute to the margins especially the competitive pressure that we are seeing on the margins we have some projects that have finished in the past that were just phenomenal and they closed very strongly.
So when you comparing it going forward our margins are good or continuing emphasis on execution along the lines of safety and productivity we are seeing benefits and we are seeing good returns.
Additional bidding activities I have a good mix for us coming forward with a combination of negotiated work this is going to help improve our margins and our continued focus on operational excellence is going to help out.
So we have good margins.
We have come up some excellent projects in the past and we are looking forward to bright future.
Thanks guys.
That's it from me.
Okay.
Thank you Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Sarah.
I have seen the press release it still states that the EPS growth expectation is in the 7% to 10% range and I am curious if that holds with and without the sale of the E&amp;P segment and whether that reflects the current oil price environment? I think Sarah when you think about all the disclosures in there that's based on as we see the company today and as we evolve overtime whether through this potential sale process and other investments we will be providing a full update certainly if not before but certainly at our end of the year call on or about the 1st of February there.
And we would update that along with all the other parameters of our business at that time as well.
Okay.
And then with the likely sale of fidelity do you still a natural fit between the regulated segments and the construction business and can you determine us of the thought process and keeping those under the same umbrella? Yes thank you for that one.
I think when you think of the businesses under MDU resources as we currently have certainly there is some synergies among the business units and some of them is probably some greater ties in synergies between certain parts of the units than others.
So clearly the pipeline and utility have some very close operating synergies between them.
When you think of the construction businesses they really respond from our regulated businesses in a sense from building power lines for ourselves to building power lines for others for instance or extracting coal from the ground to moving extracting minerals and sand and gravel and aggregates from the ground.
I think they are all very good businesses.
I think when you think about us resuming the M&amp;A activity or our construction businesses that gets me a bit excited as we think about growing in scale there.
And then the line of site both the pipeline midstream and utility is very much line of site and of course execution will be the key on our businesses to perform but I think it makes good sense as we see it today.
That being said we always got to review what our portfolio is and how we view it in the best interest of our shareholders.
Got it.
Thanks Dave.
Thank you Sarah.
This marks the last call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Time on November 18.
The conference ID number for the replay is 13274434.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 13274434.
Your next question comes from the line of Rosemarie Tevelow with Tevelow Associates.
Good morning.
Morning Rosemarie.
I have a question regarding the environment in the Bakken in general.
Have we had since this decline in the price of gas and oil particularly? Has there been a reduction in production overall in the Bakken and what is the environment there right now for production there and also additional initiation of production because some people have sold their acreage and I would like to know what the environment is.
Rosemarie just so I captured your question is it more related to the environment around the oil production and sale over or the overall business environment whether it be midstream pipeline utility construction activity? Both of those would be helpful.
Okay.
I will touch on maybe the broader view that see given the spread in backyard here and then I will call in Kent to maybe add some color if there is more to be added.
The production continues to increase by both oil and natural gas.
We see that month over month and you can catch that up in North Dakota industrial commission website Lynn Helms is a Director of that.
They publish that information on a monthly basis.
That continues to grow.
Clearly there is more gas that's being captured now and so that will require more midstream processing and more pipeline takeaway.
When we think about our utility business we are in the throes of our fall rush right now meaning before things freeze up to get as many service lines and main extensions and primary electric extensions in before the thunder gets frozen you might say that is not necessarily slowing down.
It's on a very consistent pace you might say.
When we think about the oil and gas in particular I think the drilling rigs add about 190 or so today plus or minus 1 and 2 and that's held I will say pretty constant.
Again with increase spud release time on the rigs they can drill them in it varies but we are in the mid to lower tens actually.
So the overall activity is still quite brisk I would say.
At the same time we haven’t seem to sustain oil prices in the $80 range for an extended period of time to see if that makes a major effect but clearly in the short term we haven’t seen it from an overall business perspective.
We just had ribbon cutting day Barney was with the governor of North Dakota here little about ten days ago or so or last week cutting the by-pass on Watford City $55 million the town is enthusiastically and the truck by-pass around the community and we envisioned the North Dakota DOT budget probably going up not going down.
So I think it's in a bit of a trying to catch up to the growth that we have seen.
Jeff has got I will say 200 plus electricians out of our refinery today working on the refinery project.
So overall business is very strong as we see it across our business lines and I am just turning to Kent here.
Is there anything more to add in particular that I missed on the oil and gas side? No Dave I think you said it well.
I mean Rosemarie the Bakken is one of the great oil basins in this country and we will continue to be for some time clearly as the price of the oil come down most oil and gas companies essentially reinvest all of their cash flow.
Cash flow is reduced so over time we probably will see some slow down at investment but we typically see then is cost come down too.
So it's sort of mitigated somewhat.
On the environment side and I don't know if you are asking that as well we are as an industry bringing gas flaring down which has been an issue we are especially proud of what we have been able to do and MDU and fidelity we are on any given day our flaring varies a little bit but it's in the low single-digit as a percentage which is extremely good.
And we have made a conscious effort to collect all of our gas for years and clearly everybody is headed in that direction.
We are just proud of where we are today.
Thank you.
Thank you Rosemarie.
At this time there are no further questions.
And I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Well thank you.
And as noted earlier we will peruse the marketing and potential sale of fidelity with the thoughtful and deliberate approach.
We believe our utility pipeline and construction businesses are well positioned for growth for example our evaluation of second refinery and we intend to continue develop them to their full potential.
We expect to create greater long term value for MDU resources shareholders by focusing on the successful growth businesses and we also appreciate your participation on our call today.
Thank you again for your interest in MDU resources group.
This concludes today's MDU Resources Group conference call thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group’s 2014 Year End Earnings and 2015 Guidance Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 pm Eastern today through 11:59 pm Eastern on February 17<sup>th</sup>.
The conference ID number for the replay is 58359497.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 58359497.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
This conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you would like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion on factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10 and the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks from David Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are - Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Nicole Kivisto President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Natural Gas; Pat O’Bryan President of Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production and named President and CEO of Fidelity effective March 1 upon Kent Wells’ retirement; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; and Kent Wells Vice Chairman of the Corporation and CEO of Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production; and Nathan Ring Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I'll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Well thank you Doran and good morning.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our year-end results as well as guidance for this year.
We had solid business performance from all of our units in 2014 which is a testament to our management team and the employees’ ability to execute even in light of challenges presented by lower commodity prices and unfavorable weather impacts.
Consolidated GAAP earnings for the year totaled $297.5 million or $1.55 per share compared to $278.2 million or $1.47 per share in 2013.
Our construction services businesses reported a second consecutive year of record earnings of $54.5 million.
And that our construction materials business earnings also improved with a GAAP earnings of $51.5 million and adjusted earnings of $59.9 million.
On an adjusted basis construction materials earnings were its highest ever for the first second half of the year.
Adjusted earnings were 18% higher on 3% revenue growth.
Our construction businesses combined adjusted earnings for the year are at their highest level since 2007 and continue a trend of four consecutive years of stronger combined earnings year-over-year.
Asphalt margins increased as well as ready-mix concrete in aggregate volumes and margins.
Earnings were also higher because of our ability to execute on key contracts at our outside and industrial construction service operations.
Our utility business reported earnings of $67.2 million with electric earnings increasing 5% as a result of a 4% increase in electric retail sales as well as rate recovery.
Natural gas earnings declined including a $4.3 million unfavorable weather impact along with some higher O&amp;M expenses.
At our pipeline group earnings were substantially higher at $22.6 million with higher transportation rates primarily related to the partial year effects of a rate case settlement back on May 1<sup>st</sup> along with strong results from our 50% ownership in the Pronghorn natural gas and oil gathering and processing facility.
Earnings from exploration and production business were $96.8 million on a GAAP basis and $82.1 million after adjusting for unrealized share value changes in derivatives.
Oil production increased slightly led by 25% increase in the Paradox basin and production from the purchase of the Powder River basin assets partially offset by a sale earlier in the year of some of our Bakken assets.
Natural gas and natural gas liquids production decreased as a result of asset divestments.
So we had a solid 2014 and as we look forward we’re focused on execution of our business plans and investment opportunities at our utility pipeline and energy services and construction businesses.
We are proactively managing our businesses to address recent oil price volatility.
Recall that we recently announced the decision to delay the marketing of our Fidelity E&amp;P business.
Until such time that we sell Fidelity we are focused on maximizing its value.
For example we are focused on lowering our capital cost structure.
We have already reduced general and administrative cost by over 25%.
And we’ve laid down our rigs and look to further reduce our cost structure before we begin to drill again later this year.
Another step to managing our business in the current commodity price environment is reflected in an updated to our capital expenditure forecast.
Net capital expenditures for 2015 are now estimated at $692 million reflecting a shift from some capital primarily to 2016.
Specifically capital expenditures associated with a potential second refinery and acquisition capital at the construction businesses have been delayed.
We’ve also updated our capital expenditure plans for the E&amp;P business to reflect a full year of capital expenditures in 2015 where before we were estimating only partial year for that business.
Our E&amp;P group expects to be self-funding and operate at or below the cash flows that it generates.
We have determined that our E&amp;P business does not yet qualify for discontinued operations accounting status.
We will keep you posted on that.
However in the interest of providing you with a comparable look-forward with greater clarity as to how MDU Resources will look after the sale of the E&amp;P business we have provided consolidated adjusted earnings including our utility pipeline and energy service and construction companies and excluding our E&amp;P earnings.
As reported 2014 adjusted earnings on this basis were $206 million or $1.07 per share.
That compares to adjusted earnings per share of $1.01 per share in 2013.
We’ve also initiated 2015 adjusted earnings per share guidance in the range of $1.05 to $1.20.
Our all-in GAAP guidance including the E&amp;P business is at $0.80 to $0.95.
Now turning to operational updates our construction companies continue to take advantage of improvements in the economy.
Our construction materials business has operations in 17 states with $438 million in backlog as of the end of the year.
They are focused on continued volume and margin improvements.
Our construction services group is licensed to operate in 44 states and is focused on optimizing their national presence and securing good quality projects.
Here our end of the year backlog totaled $305 million.
And we continue to pursue both organic and M&amp;A growth opportunities at each of these businesses.
We have delayed acquisition capital originally forecasted to 2015 and assumed it now moving into 2016.
However if we identify the right opportunities this year we will pursue them.
We continue to see positive momentum at our construction businesses.
And with our lower cost structure improving economies and our interest in resuming acquisition activity in the construction space we are optimistic that we’ll continue to see long-term growth for our construction businesses.
Moving our discussion now on to our utility group.
Earlier Doran introduced Nicole Kivisto who now joins us today.
Nicole was recently named as President and CEO of our utility group.
She has a 20-year history with our company most recently as Vice President of Operations for Montana-Dakota Utilities and Great Plains Natural Gas a role which included oversight of the Bakken region one of the most challenging utility regions in the country from a labor resource and infrastructure standpoint.
Prior to that she was Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
So she certainly has a broad financial expertise as well.
Nicole is an outstanding leader who is widely respected across our utility group’s management team and is ideally suited to lead the group’s continuing growth.
The utility group has a five-year capital program that’s a record nature across the eight states with plan investments now totaling $1.8 billion projecting a rate base growth of approximately 11% annually on a compounded basis.
Investments are planned in new generation transmission and distribution to serve a growing customer demand.
An agreement was recently signed to purchase the Thunder Spirit Wind project.
This is a 107.5-megawatt wind farm that will be built this year in North Dakota at a cost of approximately $200 million.
We have filed for advance determination of prudence with the North Dakota Public Service Commission on this project.
We expect to complete a $360 million upgrade to the Big Stone Generating Plant this year of which our share will be $90 million.
And we also have plans to construct 19 megawatts of natural gas-fired generation near our Lewis &amp; Clark station at Sidney Montana.
And we expect this to be online later yet this year.
In addition we’re working on the $340 million 345-kV transmission line that is a MISO multi-value project expect to be completed by 2019.
And our share of this would be one-half investment.
Although a prolonged period of lower commodity prices may slow utility Bakken region growth into the future we’re still seeing good customer growth rates of 5% for electric and over 3% for natural gas.
We expect to invest another $60 million in this area in 2015 alone.
Our utility is in a great position focused on execution the substantial identified projects and timeliness of related regulatory recovery on our planned investments.
Now moving to our pipeline and energy services group.
Here we have a five-year record CapEx plan totaling $1.1 billion.
On the near-term horizon we expect to begin commercial production of our diesel fuel and other products coming out of our Dakota Prairie Refinery here in the second quarter of 2015.
EBITDA for the first full year of production is projected to be in the range of $60 million to $80 million with our share being one-half.
Demand for diesel in North Dakota continues to be well above local supply levels.
We’re also evaluating the potential development of a second refinery within the state.
We’ve identified a potential site and have started some of the preliminary permitting work.
We’re continuing work on acquiring right of way and easements as well as filing for applicable permits for the approximately $120 million Wind Ridge Pipeline project in eastern North Dakota.
This project is designed to make gas off the northern border system and deliver it near Spiritwood North Dakota where an announced fertilizer facility will be built.
The plan is for a 95-mile pipeline to deliver 90 million cubic feet per day with a potential expansion opportunities to serve communities in growing markets in eastern North Dakota.
Our projected in-service state for the Wind Ridge project is in 2017.
In addition our pipeline group recently entered into an agreement with an anchor shipper to construct pipeline and to connect the Demicks Lakes gas processing plant in northwestern North Dakota to deliver natural gas enter a new interconnect with the northern border pipeline.
Project costs are estimated in the $50 million to $60 million range.
We are encouraged by the growth potential we see for our pipeline group as it continues to pursue new opportunities and expansion of existing facilities and services offered to its customers.
Before we move into an operational discussion of our E&amp;P business Kent Wells who joins us on the call today has announced he will retire on February 28<sup>th</sup> from his positions as Fidelity CEO along with Vice Chairman of the corporation.
We appreciate the role Ken displayed in leading Fidelity’s transition from a gas-centric business to a very much balanced production portfolio.
As Vice Chairman of MDU he’s also played a key role in our corporate strategy and success planning processes and were well-positioned to have a smooth transition in direction and leadership at Fidelity.
Pat O’Bryan who joins us today on the call has been president of Fidelity since last July and in addition he was recently named to succeed Kent as Chief Executive Officer for Fidelity upon Kent’s retirement.
Pat joined Fidelity in 2011 as Vice President of Drilling and Completions.
He has 26 years of experience in the oil and gas business including executive and asset general management.
Drilling engineering and technology management and production and reservoir engineering supervision as well.
Pat’s leadership and deep industry experience will be very important during the pause on our plans to market Fidelity and we’ll contribute to the success of marketing in the business when the timing is appropriate.
At Fidelity we expect to spend approximately $111 million in growth capital expenditures here in 2015.
We expect to minimize investments in the first half of the year as we work to lower our capital cash structure to better align with lower commodity price environment.
As I mentioned earlier we allowed our two operated rigs to expire in December.
On our non-operated Powder River Basin acreage one rig has expired and the second rig is set to expire soon.
We have flexibility on the timing of our capital investments this year.
We anticipate commencing drilling in the second half for the year as long as our return thresholds are met.
In the Paradox basins we recently completed the Cane Creek Unit 28-3 well in mid-December.
This well will slowly ramp up to about 600 barrels per day utilizing an 11 64-inch choke and flowing tubing pressure of approximately 2 600 psi.
The production rate has held relatively constant for the last three weeks.
This early indication shows this well to be a strong producer.
We also did a very small frack on the Cane Creek unit 32-1 well in the fourth quarter and it is flowing approximately 150 barrels of oil per day with a flowing tubing pressure of 1 800 psi.
We find this very encouraging.
This production level is more than double the pre-frack rate of the well after it was originally drilled without fracking completion techniques.
Our plans in the Paradox Basin for 2015 include commissioning and startup of the gas gathering and gas processing facilities and drilling of new wells and recompleting some existing wells for production enhancement.
In the Powder River Basin we expect to work on completion of backlog wells as well.
In the East Texas Cotton Valley we recently completed our first horizontal well the Poovey Mark Poovey 1H well.
Here the initial production rate peaked at 11 million cubic feet per day declining to recent rates of 9 million cubic feet per day.
We expect to drills and complete additional horizontal wells in East Texas this year.
This year in the Bakken we will look to work on the completion of our 2014 activity in a carryover mode.
Again the focus of Fidelity is on maximizing the value of the assets to ultimately market the business for sale including lowering our cost structure.
So to wrap things up as we think about 2014 and into the future we’re excited about the future of MDU Resources Group.
We expect to grow our utility pipeline and construction business units and to pursue growth with a lower overall risk profile as well.
We have substantial investment opportunities that underlie a record $3.9 billion five-year capital plan investment program.
Our financing strategy for 2015 includes $778 million in growth capital expenditures that will be funded in large part with cash flows from operations.
We are committed to a strong balance sheet as we do plan to use some debt financing largely at our utility group to fund growth projects which I discussed earlier like the wind project and that are included in our capital expenditure estimates.
And as we do each year we will continue to review our portfolio of assets and execute asset sales where it makes sense.
Based on our current forecast we are not projecting the need for equity issuance as part of our financing plans for 2015.
We are in a very good financial position.
Our balance sheet is strong our credit ratings are solid at BBB+ and stable and our liquidity position from our various credit lines that back our low cost commercial paper programs is extensive as well.
And we have continued our track record of dividends now paying one for 77 straight years and increasing it for 24 straight years one of only a handful of companies that can say the same.
I am confident that we are well-positioned to produce significant long-term value as we execute on our business plans and the opportunities we have in front of us for the benefit of our shareholders and achieve that while operating with a lower overall business risk profile.
I appreciate your interest and commitment to our MDU Resources organization and would be happy to open the lines to questions at this time.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Hello? Good morning Paul.
Hi.
I wanted to ask you about the beneficial tax impact in the fourth quarter.
Could you tell us what caused that and how much it was? Thank you Paul.
I’m going to ask Nathan Ring our Chief Accounting Officer to answer that.
Nathan? Good morning.
Thank you for the question.
The impact in the fourth quarter which also relates to the annual impact was actually [ph] probably the most significant item relates to favorable resolution of the 2007 to 2009 IRS audit.
So there as in past years in accordance with the accounting rules namely FIN 48 we established reserves for that audit associated with uncertain tax positions.
As we closed those open years in 2014 many of the tax positions reversed the previously established reserve.
This was approximately $7 million of which the majority related to the exploration and production business unit.
We also had some higher tax deductions which relate to our Section 199 deduction from our non-regulated business units.
Those two make up the majority of the variants in the fourth quarter and for the year related to our effective tax rate.
So the total amount was $111 [ph] million is that correct? For the IRS audit that’s correct.
And what about for the other? For the higher benefits that’s approximately - for the Section 199 that’s about $5 million.
Okay.
And that’s after tax? Those are all after tax numbers.
Okay.
And then is there any benefit in 2015 from tax activities such as this? Say that again please.
Is there any continuing tax benefit that we should be projecting in 2015 or beyond - Yes so the items that I referenced up for example the higher benefit to the Section 199 those are items - credit deductions that we have on an ongoing basis each year dependent upon our qualifying production income which we’ll have from our non-regulated businesses.
The FIN 48 activity in prior years we’ve had some accruals.
As we’ve had those on certain tax positions in future years we likely will have some other accruals and reversals that relate to those.
As we will look beyond - Do you have an - Sorry go ahead.
- amount? We don’t have an estimated amount for those but they’ll likely be in the same range as we’ve had in the past.
So during the fourth or in 2014 our effective rate was about 30%.
In prior years we’ve been around call it 33%.
We anticipate being within that range on a go-forward basis.
Okay.
And then the unrealized gain in 2014 at the E&amp;P business is there any projection for unrealized gains in 2015 in that long - Paul you’re referring to the unrealized hedge position that we have at Fidelity? Yes.
I mean I believe that the 2014 numbers included unrealized gain and I was wondering if there was a similar expectation or loss expectation associated with the $40 million to $50 million excluding the ceiling test exams.
Yes Paul this is Kent.
Of course the - when we changed from hedge accounting that created this unrealized hedge value that we take out of our adjusted earnings.
And we only have hedges in 2015 so there won’t be that - there will be during the years some perhaps unrealized but by the end of the year those should all cancel out.
Okay.
And then just when we look at Steve the CapEx numbers the E&amp;P looks like $111 million and it sounded like that was sort of a run rate associated with what you guys were going to be generating in terms of cash.
And then in 2016 you guys don’t provide any numbers.
How should we think about the disposition of that business? And just in general and if you weren’t to dispose of it would you still be basically spending in terms of what the cash flow would be driving or would there be something else we should think about? Yes Paul I’ll start and then maybe Kent or Pat can add some color.
But as we noted in the release our plans at present do not include a sale of Fidelity in 2015 and basically beyond that period.
So that’s why we wanted to provide more clarity as to a full year of run rate of capital at Fidelity.
In 2015 prior - the $111 million versus the - we said $116 million was our partial year of CapEx when we announced the potential sale of the business back in early November.
So beyond that we will continue to monitor market conditions until we feel the timing is appropriate for the selling of the business which is why we provided greater clarity into ’15.
But beyond that we’ll continue to update the market as the timing of marketing the business.
And that’s why we chose not to extend into 2016 capital expenditure forecast.
It would be my expectation that we’d operate that business within cash flows on a go-forward basis.
Okay.
And then just finally I’ll let other people ask questions but just the tension of the one-timer what caused that? Could you just explain what that withdrawal - the pension withdrawal thing actually means? Sure Paul.
I’ll ask Doran Schwartz to address that one.
Yes thanks Paul.
So on our multiemployer pension plans first we do give a bit more information in our Form 10-K on the various multiemployer pension plans that we do participate in.
These are union plans.
They’re not company-sponsored plans.
We contribute into them based on how we negotiate with the unions on generally an hourly type rate.
We’ll pay an X amount per hour and then those become managed by union and their representations on behalf of the union employees that we utilize at our various construction companies.
And so that’s kind of the background on it.
This particular plan was perhaps a bit unique in that the number of employers in their multiemployer pension plans so there’s multiple employers contributing into the plan.
But this particular plan the number of employers participating became very low over time.
And so really to reduce our risk we made the decision to withdraw from the plan and essentially fix our liability.
We participate in other plans.
Some are well-funded some are under-funded but the number of participating employers tends to be much larger so the liabilities are spread across a bigger base of participants.
So a little bit unique as it relates to this one plan where we saw the risk profile being higher because of a limited number of employers.
And obviously our risk would go up the fewer the employers that participate.
So we took the proactive step to lock in the withdrawal liability to fix our liability.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Yes.
Thank you Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Ellinghaus with Williams Capital.
Hey guys.
How are you? Hey Chris.
Doing good how are you? I’m good.
A couple of questions.
The Thunder Spirit Wind farm can you give us a little color on your expected approval timing? Yes.
This is Nicole.
I’ll go ahead and take that.
At this point we would anticipate mid-year to see in terms of the advance determination of prudence.
So some time mid-year probably for sure by July.
Then that gives you - you expect that gives you enough time to complete construction for the year? Yes we’re anticipating construction by the end of the year yes.
Okay.
Have you guys got any thoughts on Obama’s infrastructure budget proposals and how that might affect construction businesses? Chris that’s a pretty wide ranging question.
I think we would look at it more on a market-by-market basis when we think about our construction activities.
For instance I mean we are tied to some of the energy-rich states.
For instance Texas and North Dakota Wyoming Montana and we watch very closely - well not only the Federal but obviously the state budgets and what they’re looking at from a state budget funding mechanism.
So I think we would also not only look from a federal level but also from a state level in that regard.
And so I guess I would say we’d look at that but at the same time I mean we’d like to look for a longer extension to Federal Highway MAP-21 funding beyond what we currently see today too.
But we’re also very focused on state DOT budgets.
Okay.
So you’re not particularly excited by the president’s proposal so far? I’ll ask Dave Barney to maybe discuss this business in a little more detail as it relates to that.
We are excited about it.
But to get it passed I think it’s going to be really tough to get through any of the houses or Congress.
So we’d like to see it passed but it’s going to be tough to get a gas taxed or - I think they’re looking on his proposal on a corporate tax for overseas.
And I think that’s going to be a tough thing to get passed.
So yes we’d be excited to see that passed absolutely.
Okay.
Can you give us any color into your thought process on the Fidelity marketing in what you’re - do you have any asset figure [ph] targets for oil prices or just what’s your thought process sir? Hey Chris it’s Kent.
Obviously our goal is to make sure we market it to maximize the value for our shareholders.
And while it was relatively obvious and easy to make the decision to differ our marketing process it will be a little more challenging to decide exactly when to start the market again.
But what we’re doing is we’re taking advantage of this time to do some things that will position it better.
We’re clearly focused on getting our cost structure down to be competitive in a $50 to $65 world.
We’ve already made the adjustments to our G&amp;A or overhead.
We’re working very diligently on our operating cost and most importantly on our capital structure.
We dropped a rig at the end of last year and we expect that by the second half of the year we’ll be able to get the capital structure in place that we can get back to making profitable economic investments going forward.
Those things will all be important in driving the maximum value of Fidelity.
Now the other important part is picking the right business environment to sell into.
And we’re monitoring a number of different things.
And we haven’t pegged in oil price but we’re looking for a number of different things to make us believe that that would be a good investment environment for potential buyers.
And so we’re monitoring a lot of things.
And when we get our cost structure on the right place and we see that business environment that’s when we’ll look to put it back on the market.
Okay.
Thanks for the color guys.
Thank you Chris.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Matt.
My first question is a fairly broad one.
If oil prices do average about $50 this year as you’re assuming in your E&amp;P guidance can you talk about how that would impact your growth expectations for your non-E&amp;P businesses? Sure.
I’ll start with that Matt and then I may call on our business heads to add some further color.
We are taking that into account even as we think about our EPS guidance range for this coming year because commodity prices and energy activities has differing effects across our business lines.
And so as I think about our utility business it was noted in my comments that we’ve got quite a backlog of projects there from a momentum perspective.
And so we may see a small slowdown in customer connects in the Bakken area in particular.
But as we think about our eight state region the CapEx budget we have this coming year and over the next five years really are at record levels.
And those are recovered through a regulatory process.
So I mean there’s obvious slowdown in a few customers potentially.
But some of that I almost see offset by some of the industrial loads that we’re seeing on for instance like a refinery in Western North Dakota.
We factored some of that in in our construction businesses.
We see probably near-term probably not a big slowdown in infrastructure because there’s a backlog of that in particularly the Bakken area.
And we’re quite between our materials group.
It’s quite active out there I mean like completing our largest project ever Watford City bypass very successful.
We’re watching the state legislature here in North Dakota.
While they haven’t come out with the final bill yet there seems to be a strong appetite for some surge infrastructure funding to catch up on some projects there.
And when we think about our construction services group while we’ve got some ties into more energy producing states we operate and license in 44 different states.
So we’re probably more tied to the economy in general there.
And so some of the potential consumer discretionary spend that we see that may come from this may actually benefit some of our markets potentially even in like Las Vegas where there hasn’t been much construction activity for the last several years and we’re quite tied to that market.
So we see it there’s some pros and cons tied to that without getting in the great specific.
Pipeline business thinking about Steve’s business.
He talked about as we think about some of the producer-driven projects.
We could see that potentially being pushed off somewhat and somewhat comment on that.
On the flip side I think some lower energy prices for a sustained period of time only probably help those consumer-driven projects where someone’s looking for low-cost energy over an extended period of time like a fertilizer plant probably only helps that kind of a project.
So those probably weren’t real Matt would maybe put on a bore [ph] into a certain business.
I’d be glad to - but that was a broad question with a broad answer.
It was great color.
Thank you.
Also in a recent past you’ve talked about long-term target of 7% to 10% EPS CAGR is that still your expectation and is that value excluding E&amp;P? Matt the short answer to that is yes.
And I would do it as you think about the utility pipeline and energy service construction materials and construction services group for 2015 in the guidance range we provided.
That would be I’ll say a reset to our base year and 7 to 10 would be built upon that as we forecast going ahead.
Got you.
Thanks.
And then just to drill in on one business in particular in the construction services your backlog ending the year was down fairly notably year-over-year.
And your mid-point of revenue guidance implies some growth this year.
So can you help us understand what’s given you the confidence in seeing growth in that business this year? Thanks Matt.
This is Jeff.
I’m very confident in our ability to get work.
Nevertheless we’ve seen a decrease in large projects being built.
And we need to stay disciplined to make sure we can hold our margins and through execution and operational excellence we like our position.
We have some pending projects that are really exciting that will and should hit our backlog.
We’re not overly concerned about it but we’ve got a very focused group of people looking at opportunities that are going to help us be successful.
Thanks a lot guys.
I’ll jump back in the queue.
Okay.
Thank you Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of Timm Schneider with Evercore ISI.
Hey good morning.
I just had a couple of questions on Fidelity.
The first one is this something - is Fidelity something against your looking to sell as an entire business unit or is that something that you would consider piecemealing in terms of the different asset bases? Yes.
Timm this is Dave.
We’ve said in past calls - and I would only reinforce it on this call that certainly it’s our plan and desire to sell Fidelity as an entire entity and that it’s got a nice portfolio balanced portfolio of oil and along with gas assets and some associated NGLs.
I mean clearly that’s our intent to sell it as an ongoing entity.
We’ve got a talent pool there and a group of employees that know how to manage and kind of maximize the value there.
That’s certainly our intent.
Would we exclude and preclude any offers for pieces and parts of it I think we have to think of the shareholder there.
But clearly our intent is to sell it as an entire entity.
Got it.
And then the other question I had is decision to delay the marketing of Fidelity was that more of a preemptive strike in terms of proprietorial [ph] oil prices rebound? Or was that actually you guys going out testing the market and there was just a big disconnect between kind of a bid and ask.
Timm I would say it’s more the first part of your question and answer then the latter part in that our view was there was quite a bit of instability and volatility in the world market for oil.
And we just felt it wasn’t an appropriate time to put what we feel is a very valued business up for sale in a I’ll say an unstable and volatile environment.
And so until we see some stability in that that would be one of the factors that - Kent mentioned we’re looking at a number of factors.
As the timing of the asset and the business that would be one of the net - really was a very unstable time.
And until we see that levelizing and stabilizing that’s the time we’d look to commence the marketing process.
Got it.
And then just I guess an accounting question for me.
At what point can the E&amp;P business be included in discontinued ops just once you guys have - once the marketing process starts up again or once an actual sales data stood out of the org [ph]? Yes Timm this is Doran.
There’s eight specific criteria that are out there as it relates to meeting the requirements of being discontinued operations yet meet all eight.
And so we’ve concluded we don’t meet all eight of those as of year-end.
I mean on an ongoing basis we’ll continue to work with the external auditors that we have and make that determination going forward.
Of the eight certainly the marketing process would be one of those factors.
But you have to meet all eight.
So I think we’ll just keep you updated here as we go through the year.
All right thank you.
Thank you Timm.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brent.
Yes and historically you guys have been very consistent with the dividend and in good times and bad.
But just in light of your outlook for 2015 and kind of the near term challenges out there with E&amp;P can you just remind us of any covenants or restrictions on the regulatory side or elsewhere to be aware of as it relates to kind of ongoing dividend payment? I would start as an overall statement Brent in that we noted in my formal comments about the 77 years of uninterrupted dividends and increasing over the last 24.
We certainly view that as an important part of shareholder value and a means in which returning some of that investment back to our shareholders.
And we view that as very important on our shareholder base.
As it relates to certain covenants or financing arrangements I’m looking to Doran here to see if he could add some color to that.
But I think as a backdrop I think that should be your main takeaway is we believe that long-standing and commitment to dividends is very important.
Got it okay.
Yes.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up on questions around backlog and services I had a similar question.
In the material side obviously you’re projecting some growth here into 2015.
I haven’t seen significant pickup in backlog there.
Is it existing state DOT budgets and kind of the pipeline quotation levels you’re seeing right now that gives you the confidence in that or is it kind of an embedded sort of macro outlook? Brent I’ll ask Dave Barney to add some specific color there.
But when you think about year-over-year backlog in a nutshell if you actually took out on a I’ll say a pro rata basis our single largest project our Watford City bypass we’re actually probably net add or depending on the timing of the project our backlogs are as strong as they were a year ago when we think about our construction materials.
But maybe Dave could add some color on a state-by-state basis.
Is that what you’re thinking about or asking about Brent? Oh no.
I’m just trying to get a sense beyond the backlog what kind of gives you the confidence in the growth there just based on what you think - When you talk about growing - you’re talking about revenue growth in that we’ve increased our forecast to now $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion where we came in last year about $1.765 billion? Correct.
Correct okay.
No Brent I - this is Dave.
I believe most of our earnings - our revenue growth will be coming from the DOTs.
We have very strong DOT budgets out there.
Even with the oil markets down most of the DOT budgets have been set already.
Texas is strong we’re going to see a very strong bid letting [ph] coming out here in North Dakota Alaska is looking good California is recovering.
We are concerned with the oil prices and the markets we’re in [ph].
But we think the DOT budgets will be very strong for us this year and that’s where the earnings - the revenue growth will be coming from.
Great thank you.
Thank you Brent.
Your next question is from the line of Dave Parker with Robert W.
Baird.
A couple of quick questions maybe just for a little more color on just year-over-year growth.
And thanks for answering the question on long-term growth objectives but when I look at ’15 guidance versus ’14 and I add in your EBITDA contribution from the diesel topping plant that would seem like that would move the needle enough just to get us year-over-year growth yet the outlook for construction seems to be pretty strong that we’re at clearly heightened CapEx investment at the utility.
So I’m wondering what - maybe the utility is there regulatory lag in ’15 until we get the CapEx into the revenues and therefore the earnings contribution at the electric and gas group so is that kind of a soft year-over-year earnings there? Or am I missing something else at some of the other businesses? Hi Dave.
This is Dave.
I’ll try to shape up how we think about the - we call it the upside and downside to our guidance range.
And I think there’s a number of factors I’ll say more spread across the business units that as we think about our $1.05 to our $1.20 range for the four remaining businesses oil prices can both be an upside and a downside to our business.
And certainly lower energy prices can help the economy I mentioned that earlier and may result in more construction activity.
In certain markets increase in oil prices could likely support continued energy development which helps our businesses benefit from oil shale development.
It also can be a factor in the timing of when we begin the marketing of the Fidelity business.
Certainly you mentioned the refinery.
I think that’s one of the things we think about it’s got the potential for a strong earnings impact in 2015 versus some of our base case assumptions.
And so our guidance depends on what happens with the price of not only the refined products coming from that but also the inputs of the crude oil which in certain - we’ve seen some very favorable input pricing here as of late so that that crack spread is held in there.
Overall the economy is a consideration as we think some of our construction businesses are tied to it.
We did have weather as a factor in 2014.
We planned for normal weather at our utility throughout the year.
We indicated some of the earnings decline from a weather effect was about $4.3 million as a negative to our natural gas business notwithstanding some of the I’ll say normalization that we’ve got in three of our eight states.
But that comes into play as we think about our guidance range.
We’ll continue to update our guidance throughout the year as our business results come in.
Critical here is really execution with whether it’s the refinery in as we now expect it in the second quarter getting out into the field appropriately with our construction businesses is very important.
And as we think about just the overall project management and managing those margins on construction is important too.
So that’s probably a long answer Dave that kind of say we look at it across the businesses and there’s a variety of factors.
So that $1.05 to $1.20 it’s based on a number of assumptions that we’ll continue to update throughout the year.
All right thanks.
That provides a lot of good helpful insight.
I noticed that just rough back of the envelope kind of calculations on earned returns on my guess for your rate base looks like we’ve gone from kind of double-digit returns on rate base to single-digit and I see you’ve got a very active regulatory schedule this year.
So I imply that that regulatory activity this year is to try to get earned returns closer to authorized levels.
Is that a fair assumption? Yes Dave.
Nicole will take that one.
Yes that would be fair.
As you saw in the news release we are looking at multiple rate cases in terms of 2015 and getting those executed so fair statement Dave.
Great.
And my last question on capital structure and potential changes for planning going forward I know with a little bit more cyclical business in E&amp;P and at Fidelity with the potentially changing mix there any thoughts on what your long-term kind of capital structure may look like post ’15 or ’16? Yes Dave this is Doran.
I think one of the things that we are certainly thinking about is moving forward post sale of an E&amp;P type business is the overall business risk profile is going to be different.
No doubt we’ve heard some of that feedback from our credit rating agencies.
But I think that one of the great things about that too is that even at maybe a lower overall business risk profile we still have this opportunity to continue to invest and grow at again at - hopefully at least 7% to 10% growth rates long-term as we talked about before.
So I think it’s a great story from that perspective.
I think in terms of the cap structure on our lower business risk profiles we invest into the utility and grow.
We had it at 11% per year.
We grow the pipeline business with some of the FERC regulated projects that we have there like the wind ridge announced project.
And we grow our rate base that only adds to the solidification of the base of earnings and cash flows from a regulated source.
That serves well also to help support the dividend that Dave talked about over time too that we’ve increased now for 24 straight years.
I would say from a cap structure perspective certainly we are committed to a strong balance sheet Dave.
We have been forever.
I think that’s one of the big reasons why we were able to come through the great recession stronger coming out of it than we did when we went into it.
And I think that positioned us well to take advantage of a lot of the opportunities in the late 2000s and early 2010 ’11 timeframe  So we’re committed to a strong balance.
We’re not going to over belabor but I would say certainly we would have opportunities to use our balance sheet in relation to operating under lower business risk profile.
But utility is pretty much a 50-50 cap structure.
Has been that’s kind of our target; we’ll be going forward.
The largely non-regulated business on the non-utility side historically we targeted 30% to 35% debt to cap.
We might operate a little higher than that but again committed to a strong balance sheet.
Perfect.
Thanks Doran.
Great answers I appreciate it.
Yes yes.
Thanks Dave.
Your next question comes from the line of Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
In terms of pushing out the refinery CapEx is that more of a function of the pre-construction process taking longer than expected or is it just a discretionary move to preserve capital this year? Sarah this is Steve Bietz basically our focus today is to get the refinery up and operational.
So we want to get that completed before we really dive deep into our second refinery.
Again that’s planned for the second quarter.
We also planned to take some time to think about things that went well and things that we’re challenged with our first refiner and use those.
Lessons learned to really put together our plan here for the second refinery with some of the changes in the oil market as well I guess a little better breathing room to do that.
So that’s really what’s driven our decision to slide that out.
Got it.
And then if the EMP sale isn’t realistic again in ’16 do you expect CapEx will be pushed out again? Or is this just a one year delay in construction with strength been [ph].
Sarah I would say it’s too early to tell at this point because we put together five-year plans.
And it’s a continuous rolling five-year plan that’s refreshed every year.
Clearly today we view that there would not be expected sale to business in ’15.
It would be beyond that.
And so the current CapEx forecast would be with the expectation that we’d look for a sale sometime in ’16.
But again we’d have to kind of readdress that as time went on based on market conditions et cetera.
So again that’s how we forecast and that’s how we look at things.
But we continue to refresh that forecast based on the timing and the marketing process.
Got it.
Is the goal there to avoid needing to go to the equity markets or is that not necessarily the consideration? I would say the primary goal there is to maximize shareholder value for that business in the right I’ll say commodity oil price forecast futures environment.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Thank you Sarah.
This marks the last call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be available for replay beginning at 1 pm eastern time today through 11:59 eastern on February 17<sup>th</sup>.
The conference ID number for the replay is 58359497.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 58359497.
And we do have a follow-up question from the line of Timm Schneider with Evercore ISI.
Yes.
Just quick follow up for me.
How should we think about the debt that’s deep into the business [ph] whereas differently once you sell that business should we expect then any changes to interest expense as a result of potential debt pay down from the proceeds? Timm it’s Doran.
So here’s how I would think about the debt.
Out of - we’ve got a couple of billion dollars I think [ph] in the Press Release just under $2.1 billion of debt.
Largely half of that - roughly half of that are regulated operations; the rest is across the unregulated businesses that we have at the non-utility business and pipeline business.
And so we don’t necessarily break that out by BU.
But what I would say is as we take a look at Fidelity; they have a mix right now of short-term commercial paper and longer-term maturities.
Some of those maturities come due in 2015 and ’16.
We will look to basically refinance those with essentially shorter-term financing which could include commercial paper of some type of term loan with the bank.
And then the longer-term maturities with Fidelity as other maturities come due at other business units we might look to redeploy some of that debt elsewhere within the corporation and we would finance that with lower cost options as well.
And then that gives us optionality upon the actual sale to either repay that debt or redeploy the fund somewhere else in the corporation.
Again we’d have to take a look at the balance sheet at that point in time make our decision about whether we’d want to repay or redeploy the funds.
First preference again is to commit to a strong balance sheet.
So we’d take a hard look at that.
But that’s our plan to finance the debt associated with Fidelity as we think about leading up to the sale.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Timm.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Well thank you.
And as we’ve noted earlier and discussed on the call we will pursue the marketing and potential sale of Fidelity both with tactful and a deliberate approach at the appropriate time.
We do believe our utility.
Our pipeline and construction businesses are very well-positioned for growth.
And we intend to continue to develop them to their full potential.
We expect to create greater longer-term value for MDU Resources shareholders by focusing on the successful growth businesses.
And above all we appreciate your participation on our call today.
We want to thank you for your continued interest in MDU Resources Group.
Thanks for tuning in.
This concludes today’s MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Angela and I will be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group's First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern today through 11:59 PM Eastern on May 19th.
The conference ID number for the replay is 12424597.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 12424597.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our earnings release conference call.
This conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you would like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Steve Bietz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Nicole Kivisto President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Natural Gas; Pat O’Bryan President of Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; and Nathan Ring Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I'll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Thank you Doran and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our first quarter results.
We are positive about our long-term growth potential despite challenges we experienced during this first quarter.
We have record capital investment opportunities at our utility and pipeline businesses a refinery that is now in production and clear momentum at our construction materials business as well.
Along with increasing bidding opportunities at our construction service business with a combined backlog between both construction materials and services now approaching 1 billion.
Several factors negatively affected our results for this quarter.
Some of the warmest winter weather on record affected utility earnings by approximately 6.6 million.
Although the pipeline bid benefit from last year's rate case the company incurred higher start cost for our Dakota Prairie refinery as the time neared to commencing operations impacting this year's first quarter by about 1.9 million.
The Construction Service Group sold underperforming non-strategic assets in the first quarter recording an expense of 1.4 million and our Construction Materials Group had a true-up of a multi-employer pension plan withdraw liability of 1.5 million related to the same plan for which an estimate was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014.
These items on a combined basis totaled 11.4 million or [$0.066] per share of a negative impact to the first quarter earnings compared with last year.
So including these items consolidated adjusted earnings for the first quarter totaled 22.8 million or $0.12 per share compared with 35.6 million or $0.19 per share in 2014.
On a consolidated GAAP basis which includes our exploration and production business we reported a loss of 306.1 million or $1.57 per share reflecting a 315.3 million after tax non-cash write down of oil and natural gas properties pertaining to the quarterly ceiling test.
Turning to business unit results and operational updates.
Our utility businesses reported earnings of 29.8 million.
Earnings were positively affected by the implementation of the environmental cost recovery rider and the electric generation resource recovery rider in North Dakota.
And we continue to see strong current growth in the Bakken area with increases of 4.4% in electric customer accounts and 3.6% in natural customers in the first quarter compared to a year ago.
More than offsetting these items were significantly warmer winter weather across our service territory resulting in a $6.6 million earnings effect with the natural gas sales decline of 14% along with a slight decrease in electric sales.
While we do have weather normalization in North Dakota South Dakota and Oregon we do not have natural gas weather normalization in our remaining five states of operation.
Higher O&amp;M cost largely as a result of a planned outage Big Stone generating plant also impacted earnings quarter-over-quarter.
Even the substantial growth in investment of our utility timely regulatory recovery is a primary focus.
We have pending natural gas rate increases cases in Wyoming North Dakota Oregon and just last week we received PSD approval for 2.5 million annually on our Montana gas phase.
We have filed in North Dakota for advanced determination of prudence for the Thunder Spirit Wind project as well as an update to the environmental cost recovery rider as well.
We expect to file electric rate cases in Montana South Dakota and Wyoming and natural gas cases in Washington Minnesota and South Dakota with most of these cases expected to be filed this year.
We continue to expect this business to grow substantially over time with the investment opportunities ahead.
Rate base growth is projected at 11% compounded annually over the next five years including plans for a record 1.8 billion gross capital investment program.
New electric generation and transmission and electric and natural gas distribution investments are planned to serve the growing customer demand and to enhance reliability along with system integrity.
Specifically three projects completed this year include the $200 million Thunder Spirit Wind project to be built here in Western North Dakota a $385 million upgrade to our Big Stone generating plant of which our share is approximately 90 million and the addition of 19 megawatts of natural gas fire generation near our Lewis &amp; Clark Station in Sidney Montana.
In addition we are working on a $340 million 345 KV transmission line that is MISO multi-value project expected to be completed in 2019 with our share being one half.
Our utility is really in a great position focused on timeliness of regulatory recovery along with our planned investment in executing on the substantial [identified] projects as I just recently laid out.
Next at our Pipeline Group earnings were 4 million including that 1.9 million after tax increase in our portion of the startup cost related to the refinery.
Absent these costs earnings would have been up 1.6 million or 33% quarter-over-quarter.
This corresponds to transportation volumes which were 30% higher driven by strong growth of off-system transportation volumes.
Also benefiting earnings were increased rates from that favorable rate case settlement we had May of 2014.
Gathering and processing volumes also increased at our Pronghorn facility but were largely offset by lower processing rates.
And as we announced yesterday along with Calumet our partner on the project the Dakota Prairie refinery the greenfield refinery built in the U.S.
in nearly 40 years has commenced operations.
With more than two-thirds of North Dakota's diesel fuel currently imported into the state the refinery is well positioned to meet strong regional demand and additionally local produce supplies of diesel fuel.
We expect to begin sales of diesel fuel as the plant ramps up during the month of May.
Construction of the facility began just back in March 26 of 2013 and it is located 4 miles west of Dickinson North Dakota.
We had more than 800 workers that were on site at peak construction and the plant was constructed with zero loss time accidents over the 2.1 million man hours worked to build the facility.
The facility is designed to process some 20 000 barrels per day of locally sourced Bakken crude and the production slate includes up to 7 000 barrels per day of diesel approximately 6 500 barrels per day of naphtha and about 6 000 barrels per day of atmospheric tower bottoms or ATBs.
Naphtha will be used as a diluent to transport heavy oil by pipeline or as a feedstock in natural gas production and ATBs can be used as feedstock for lubricating oils and other refined products as well.
We continue projecting EBITDA contribution for the first full year of operation of the refinery to be in the range of 60 million to 80 million and this will be shared equally by our partner Calumet.
As we look forward we have a number of additional growth opportunities at our Pipeline Group that are included in our five year record capital expenditure program which totals 1.1 billion.
A $120 million Wind Ridge pipeline project is a 95 mile natural pipeline designed to deliver approximately 90 million cubic feet per day off of northern border system and deliver to near Spiritwood North Dakota where an announced fertilizer facility will be built.
We are continuing work on acquiring [indiscernible] as well as filing an application on the project.
Potential really also exists for expansion of the pipeline to serve communities in growing markets in Eastern North Dakota.
Our projected in service date for the Wind Ridge project is in 2017.
In addition our Pipeline Group has an agreement with an anchored shipper to construct the pipeline to connect the Demicks Lake gas processing plant in Northwestern North Dakota to deliver natural gas into a new interconnection with the northern border pipeline.
Project costs are estimated to be in the $50 million to $60 million range and we are also continuing our evaluation of a potential development of a second diesel refinery here in North Dakota.
We are encouraged by the growth potential we see for our Pipeline Group as it continues to pursue new opportunities and expansion of the existing facilities and services offered to our customers.
Now I'd like to move on to our construction businesses.
Here we reported a combined loss of 9.8 million for the quarter.
Our construction materials business had its best first quarter since 2007 narrowing our seasonal loss by 38% compared to the first quarter last year.
Favorable weather was a positive for this business in the first quarter allowing us to get out an earlier start on the construction season this year.
We are pleased that our construction materials business is really gaining momentum.
Trialing 12 month earnings net of the withdrawal liability recorded for that multi-employer pension plan is now at 70.3 million up from annual earnings of 26.4 million just back in 2011 which was the low point during the great recession.
Returns on capital have more than doubled over that time period as we continue trending with higher margins with that lower cost structure now in place.
We have seen an increase in volumes of aggregate and asphalt sales up 26% ready-mix concrete volumes up nearly 16% however levels are still approximately only 60% of peak volumes so we still have capacity to handle more work in our markets without requiring a significant amount of near term capital.
Backlog also continues to trend up now at 664 million as of March 31st and the bidding environment continues to be strong with incremental work being secured in a number of our markets.
At our construction service businesses workloads declined in the first quarter compared to last year's all time record quarterly earnings largely as a result of the closing out of several stronger margin large projects a year ago.
And although we are seeing strong bidding opportunities the timing of new project awards did not allow us to offset or replace those workloads.
First quarter also reflects a $1.4 million expense after tax associated with the sale of certain non-strategic and underperforming assets.
Backlog is lower this year than the prior year however it is up from year end.
We are pursuing opportunities that we believe will be reflected in the backlog and workloads later this year.
For example we are a finalist on a substantial transmission project that is expected to be awarded within the next month.
With regard electric and mechanical work we have been verbally awarded a sizable institutional project that we are pursing another with an expected award date later this year.
We also have been awarded a pre-construction service base on a project with the construction phase expected to be awarded again later this year.
And we are awaiting contract award for another sizable project to be in construction in the second half of 2015.
Along with this and on the industrial side the level of maintenance work has increased and we are in the planning stages on several larger projects for upcoming turnarounds.
Overall bidding opportunities are increasing with an improvement of securing work with actually better margins.
There are pending project opportunities in all of our regions and equipment sales and rentals do remain very strong.
We believe these projects and others that we are pursing will have a significant positive impact to the backlog revenue along with margin at construction services.
With our lower cost structure improving economies and our highly skilled operations teams in our Construction Group we continue to be economic about the long-term growth for our construction businesses.
Now I would like to move on to our Exploration and Production Company Fidelity.
From an operational standpoint we are living within cash flows and we have recently added some hedges to reduce that volatility of cash flows for the near term.
Our focus on lowering the cost structure has resulted in a 15% reduction in lease operating expenses that we plan to continue to pursue additional reductions.
Our general and administrative expenses have also been reduced.
We are moving forward with plans to maximize the value of reserves with recent positive well results in both the Paradox along with East Texas.
We are pleased with the production levels of our assets noting the majority of our production decreases are due to prior year asset sales with some additional impact from lower capital levels.
We certainly like the stability that we have seen in oil prices as of late.
And we will pursue the marketing and sale of our E&amp;P business as we determine appropriate.
So I would like to wrap things up.
As we continue to be excited about the future of MDU Resources Group we have substantial investment opportunities that underlie a record 3.9 billion five year capital investment program.
We expect to fund our $755 million in planned gross capital expenditures for this year largely with cash flow from operations.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
Our credit ratings are solid at BBB+ stable and our liquidity position from our various credit lines [netback] our low cost commercial paper programs is extensive.
And we have continued to track our record of paying dividends for now 77 straight years and increasing it for the past 24 years.
We are only one of a handful of companies that can really say the same.
So I am confident that we are well positioned to produce significant long-term value as we execute on our business plans and the opportunities we have right in front of us for the benefit of our shareholders.
I appreciate your interest and commitment to MDU Resources organization and I would certainly be happy to open up the lines to questions that you may have at this time.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital.
Congrats on the refinery start up.
I wanted to ask is the guidance for the refinery [if you look at that] is being based on current market conditions or is that more of a long-term average run rate? Matt I will take a shot at that Steve is in the room here as well.
I appreciate the congratulations it's been quite a project and effort in just 25 months we were able to complete that project from groundbreaking to now start up.
So I want to provide also hats off to Steve and the team over there.
I would say it's more a long-term as we look at differentials as we give that guidance of that 60 million to 80 million in EBITDA we know differentials widen and they will narrow but we're going to be very transportation advantaged with the sizing or the location of this plant given we'll capture that crude price going out and being processed out of state and then refined product being brought in.
So again I would look at it over the longer term and it's not a point in time.
Thanks should we assume that there is some ramp up period here before you can kind of get to the full run rate? Yeah Matt this is Steve you know as we sit here today and as we kind of design the startup we've been right around 10 000 barrels a day.
And I think as you think about the refinery typically would look to ramp that up to the maximum in a fairly short period of time kind of a matter of days given this is a newly commissioned equipment and facility we're doing that on more measured approach ensuring safety and just kind of bringing things up as we go.
As I think about I our objective here is to continue to move that up and expect if there's any big issues as we go we would be up to our 20 000 barrels a day say by the end of this month somewhere around there.
Great thanks Steve.
And then one just with respect to a potential second refinery you've indicated you'll probably spend most of this year analyzing that.
You know on paper based on the cost from the guidance for the first one the supply demand situation it would seem like it makes sense so could you just talk a little bit more about you know what factors that you have to consider or in any other anything else that prevents you from moving ahead more quickly with that? Well I think [indiscernible] to get the first one up and running so that was really where our focus was at.
So we put this on the shelf a little better and at least on the back burner.
We have been doing some work associated with the second refinery from a [citing] perspective as well as some of the engineering work.
So we're making some progress there and we've got some meetings planned over the next couple of months relative to some of the equipments so forth for a second refinery.
We want to understand also the market the crude oil acquisition market that where we're buying crude and the market for diesel in several locations.
So those are all factors that we're studying.
I guess I think the good news here is that we've got our first one up and running and can now shift our attention over to spend more time on the second one and certainly apply the lessons learned if you will from the construction of the first one where there is opportunities to do a better job to reduce cost and make a second plant actually more efficient so.
Thanks a lot.
And then just one on shifting gears to the potential sale of Fidelity I know you don’t want to show your hand too much but is there any more color you can give us in terms of what you are looking for in order to start marketing that have you had any conversations any sense you could give us for potential timing or what you are looking for from oil prices before you begin that process? Yeah Matt I will take that one.
You know we're going to certainly pursue the marketing and sale of our E&amp;P to maximize shareholder value as you might expect.
I noted in my comments we are encouraged by the stabilized oil pricing environment that we're seeing and we look at other various factors rig count supply demand what's happening internationally how much M&amp;A activity is there what's happening on what might be some acquires balance sheet so far as debt and equity.
So we kind of roll that all in and we will make the decision at the appropriate time.
I think you answered during question at the onset of your question we won't play a lot of cards here but we are encouraged I will say by some local indicators more recent indicators I will say.
Okay thank you Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with DA Davidson.
One more on the refinery.
Is the guidance embedding a similar level of startup cost into Q2 or is that mostly behind at this stage? Yes Brent as you think about the start-up cost those are some I'll say typical expenses that we've got at the refinery we've got north of 70 employees out there and while some of those costs we're able to capitalize many of those costs we got expensed.
So we've got leases for railway and different things.
So those are more typical expenses if you will.
And as you think about going forward in the first quarter we didn’t have revenues to really offset those so as we go forward you're going to see revenues coming in and some of the costs certainly that were capitalizing will move over to the O&amp;M side.
Got it.
And then Dave we're starting to see some other construction material suppliers out there showing some really solid pricing momentum and I know you don’t break it out and your geographic footprint is a little different from others but can you talk through your expectations and initiatives for materials pricing for Knife River? Yes Brent to get margin improvements on materials and our construction backlog and as we continue to see [there is also] recover we expect that trend to continue in the near future.
So it's definite positive and our volumes continue to grow as our volumes continue to grow we expect margins continue to follow that trend.
Your next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just on the construction business favorable weather.
Does that take does that impact your earnings in the other quarters does it take any business from other quarters or it's just additive? Paul as your question more of a did we work ahead some work as opposed to a wet spring or how does it impact the backlog is that more of a way you're looking at? Yes yes you got it does it pull any work from future periods? Paul this is Dave Barney yes that definitely is going to pull a little of work from probably April we might see a little low but we have a good backlog we've picked up quite a bit of work in April and we expect the volumes to continue to increase and like I said margins continue to increase we don’t see a big drop off for the rest of the year.
Okay great.
And then on the pension expense I think you guys had this last quarter and is it just sort of a catch up or sort of fine tuning it or is there something else going on? Hi Paul this is Doran.
I think you characterized it the right way we made an estimate at the end of the year we had some new information that allowed us to true-up that estimate here in the first quarter.
So that's essentially what's you are seeing.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital.
Hi got a couple of follows ups.
I noticed you saw pretty nice customer growth on a year-on-year basis in the Bakken region can you comment on kind of more recent trends are you continuing to see growth on may be a quarter-to-quarter month-over-month basis so if you can just provide kind of an update on how you view the economy in that region? Certainly Matt this is Nicole I will answer your question.
As Dave alluded to in his remarks we did see electric customer growth in the Bakken at 4.4% quarter-over-quarter on the gas side we saw 3% 3.6% growth rate.
Really when you look at year-on-year we added around 20 000 customers and about 3 400 of those came from the Bakken.
So you can see that although the Bakken activity is clearly exceeding national averages in terms of growth rates we're seeing growth across really our entire system.
On an overall basis we had customer growth around 2%.
And then if you are getting to the question on what's the run rate going forward that's really hard to predict it has come up a little bit from the historic levels but we still anticipate strong growth out there in the Bakken and quite frankly across our entire territory.
Okay great.
And I just wanted to ask on the construction services side could you provide a little more color on the non-strategic [indiscernible] assets that you sold and do you expect to continue with that type of activity this year? Matt thanks for the question this is Jeff.
We sold our electrical supply and distribution business which was based in Las Vegas head office is in New Mexico Texas and North Dakota this was not a strategic part of our business and we do not anticipate any other moves like that that we're looking we're actively looking at strategic acquisitions across the country.
[Operator Instructions].
This marks the last call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern today through 11:59 PM Eastern on May 19th.
The conference ID number for the replay is 12424597.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 12424597.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
In closing I would like to make sure everyone understands it.
We believe our utility pipeline and construction businesses are really very well positioned for growth and we intend to continue develop them to maximize shareholder value.
We expect to create greater long-term value for MDU Resource shareholders by focusing on the successful growth businesses.
And when I think about our Utility Group the 1.8 billion of investment over the next five years Nicole noted the higher than national average growth in customer.
When I think of our Pipeline and the Refining Group now we call it a Refining Group now that we have a refinery online the first one in America in almost 40 years and you heard between our construction businesses having about 1 billion in backlog between materials and services I think we're well positioned as we think about this year and beyond.
And as noted earlier we will pursue the marketing and sale of the Fidelity when we believe the time is appropriate.
We appreciate your participation on our call today and again thank you for your interest in MDU resources.
Operator? This concludes today's MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kelly and I'll be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on November 17.
The conference ID number for the replay is 57967847.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 57967847.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you Mr.
Schwartz.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings release conference call.
This conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you'd like to view the slides go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks by Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who are available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are; Nicole Kivisto President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Martin Fritz President and CEO of WBI Holdings; Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; Pat O'Bryan President and CEO of Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production; and Nathan Ring Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I'll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Doran and good morning and welcome everyone.
Thank you for taking the time to join us today.
First before we review third quarter earnings I did want to discuss the divestment of Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production assets.
We are pleased to be nearly complete with the sale process.
We have entered into five separate purchase and sale agreements and closed on one of the agreements in October.
The remaining four sale agreements are expected to close before year-end.
The aggregate sale proceeds from the five agreements and estimated tax benefits is expected to be approximately $450 million.
The sale prices are in line with current and prospective market conditions and commodity price expectations and we believe are fair when compared with recent oil and natural gas asset sales closed by other companies.
Debt repayment is planned as the primary use of the funds.
Under the agreements in place today by year-end we would have executed on the sale of assets representing more than 90% of our year-to-date production.
We do have one remaining small property that we continue to market that is our Cedar Creek net profits interest asset.
Closure on the sale of these assets allows us to focus our capital allocation on the growth at our utility pipeline and energy services along with our construction businesses.
Now moving on to the quarterly results.
For the third quarter our consolidated adjusted earnings totaled $74.9 million or $0.38 per share compared to $68.2 million or $0.35 per share in 2014 an increase in earnings per share of 9% over last year.
Our electric utility had a good quarter with 7% sales growth along with recording a new system peak partially offset by a normal seasonal loss for our natural gas business.
And at our pipeline and energy service group we continue to see commodity price challenges directly affecting our refineries economics.
Our pipeline business though is solid with transport volumes up some 19%.
Our construction materials business had record earnings that were 25% higher on only 4% revenue growth with operating income improving across all regions.
While our construction services business had lower workloads this quarter backlog additions were very strong.
Now I'd like to move on to the individual business units.
At our utility business we reported combined earnings of $300 000 for the quarter.
Our electric business had a record quarter with $12.6 million of earnings.
Our natural gas business had a normal seasonal loss offsetting the effects of lower volumes and a decrease in operation and maintenance expense.
We continued to experience good customer growth this quarter with overall annual growth of 4.7% for electric and 1.8% for natural gas.
In the Bakken area electric customer counts were 6.9% higher and natural gas counts increased 3.7% compared with last year.
Our utility group is focused on a number of organic growth opportunities which are expected to lead to substantial rate base growth.
The Thunder Spirit Wind farm which includes 43 wind turbines totaling 107.5 megawatts is well underway.
Currently there are 35 wind turbines constructed and six producing electricity with the project expected to be fully complete by year's end.
The total cost is estimated at $220 million and we recently filed with North Dakota for a renewable resource recovery rider to recover the investment.
And as a reminder previously we did receive advanced determination of prudency on this project earlier this year.
Our Big Stone South to Ellendale that's at 345 kV joint venture transmission line now has more than 90% of its easements secured.
This project has an expected completion in 2019 and our share of the cost is estimated to be at $205 million.
We've recently filed with MISO on revenue requirements for recovery of the cost for this project.
In addition the 19 megawatt natural gas fired generation near our Lewis &amp; Clark Station in Sidney Montana is well under way and expected to be in service yet this year.
And we are receiving potential future generation options.
We're reviewing future potential generation options for larger scale resource that we have now included in our Integrated Resource Plan filing just this past July.
This filing indicates a 200 megawatt resource addition to our fleet needed by the 2020 timeframe.
Our utility group remains focused on regulatory recovery where we have obtained approval and implemented some $18.9 million in annual revenue increases to this point this year.
In addition to the MISO filing that I mentioned earlier in the third quarter we filed an application with the Minnesota PUC for a natural gas rate increase of approximately $1.6 million and we filed an application with the North Dakota PUC for an update to the generation resource recovery rider along with the renewable resource cost adjustment rider for Thunder Spirit mentioned earlier.
This is a total request of $25.3 million.
The generation rider covers investments in Heskett III brought into service just August of 2014 and the Lewis &amp; Clark addition that we again plan to have on yet this year.
Our current pending regulatory recovery filings now total $55.2 million.
We also expect to file a natural gas case in Washington yet this year and an electric case in Wyoming in early 2016.
Our utility has many line of sight opportunities for long-term growth and continues to focus on providing safe and reliable service to our customers at economic rates while obtaining timely rate recovery.
Now moving on to our pipeline and energy service group.
We had an adjusted loss of $1.2 million for the quarter.
Earnings were impacted by operating results of the refinery and lower realized prices at the Pronghorn facility.
Partially offsetting this were the regulated transportation pipeline volumes that were up 19% year-over-year.
Our after-tax portion of the refinery's loss was $5.8 million for the quarter the result of challenging market conditions including low diesel and naphtha prices along with historically narrow local Bakken basis differentials which affected the crude acquisition pricing.
In the long run we expect market conditions for the refinery to recover.
As planned we did have the unit down for a couple of weeks in the quarter for some optimization projects and recently for a couple of days for some repairs to the hydrogen plant.
Otherwise we're generally pleased with the plant performance.
We currently have a couple of expansion projects that we're focused on within the pipeline group.
The North Badlands expansion includes a 4-mile loop of Garden Creek II pipeline and measurement and associated facilities expected to be in service in the fall of 2016.
The Northwest North Dakota expansion project includes modification of existing compression a new unit and re-cylindering.
The project should be complete by next summer.
As we look forward we are encouraged by the potential we see for our pipeline and energy services group.
We are focused on improving existing operations as well as accelerating growth.
It is our goal to become the leading pipeline company and midstream provider in our operational areas including expanding existing facilities and services.
We're also evaluating expansion into other basins.
Next I'd like to move onto our construction businesses where on a combined basis we reported higher earnings totaling $73.5 million up from $65.1 million last year.
On a 12 trailing month basis our combined construction businesses had adjusted earnings of $125 million exceeding our peak annual earnings from the pre-recession year of 2007 when these businesses earned a total of $120.8 million.
Specifically the construction material segment had their best quarter on record.
Earnings for the quarter were $68.8 million up 25% compared with last year.
Margins were higher across all product lines and volumes were higher for all products with the exception of ready-mix along with higher construction revenue and margins.
The construction materials worked up a lot of backlog this part quarter; however they are positioned well with currently $533 million in backlog as of September 30.
This is 11% higher than what we saw last year.
Our construction materials team has done a great job of focusing on maintaining an efficient cost structure and growing profit margins and are well positioned for continued growth with our substantially strategic located 1.1 billion tons of aggregate reserves.
At our construction services business earnings were $4.7 million compared to $9.9 million last year primarily due to the completion of several stronger margin large projects that we had in 2014.
We have focused on replacing those jobs; however the timing of new project awards has not allowed us to replace last year's workloads.
Yet we have continued to add to the backlog this quarter with backlog now standing at $458 million at the end of the quarter.
This is up some 32% from a year ago and it's the third consecutive quarter of backlog growth.
So to highlight a few areas we would like to – we have increased backlog substantially in our Northwest region with commercial and high tech projects.
Our industrial division has seen increased levels of maintenance work and we're optimistic of our potential opportunities in the Gulf Coast region.
And we have continued in pre-construction phase on a couple of large projects with construction phase expected to be awarded by early in 2016.
We have pending project opportunities in all our regions and believe these projects and others that we're pursuing will have a significant positive impact to the backlog revenue and margin going forward.
And with our lower cost structure and our highly skilled operation teams in our construction group we continue to be optimistic about the long-term growth for our construction businesses.
So now to conclude we have faced a number of challenges this year.
With the sale of our exploration and production business nearly complete and the opportunities we have at our utility pipeline and energy services and construction business units I am confident that MDU Resources is positioned for long-term growth.
We expect to fund our approximately $583 million in planned gross CapEx this year largely with cash flows from operations along with some debt and proceeds from non-strategic divestitures.
We are currently working on an updated five-year CapEx forecast to include the years 2016 through 2020 and expect to provide that information a couple of weeks from now.
We have continued to maintain a strong balance sheet solid credit ratings and a good liquidity position.
And for 78 years we have continued to provide a competitive dividend to our shareholders.
And as always we are committed to operating with integrity and our top priorities are to operate safely and create superior long-term value.
Thank you for your time and attention today.
We'd be happy to open the lines and answer any questions at this time.
Operator? Your first question will come from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Matt.
Inc.</span></strong> Congrats on the E&amp;P sale announcements.
I guess first question can you just provide any more color on the Cedar Creek property why that seems to have been more challenging to sell so far and the level of interest you see in it and your level of optimism or kind of your expectation on finding a buyer for that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Matt I'll ask Pat O'Bryan.
He is here in the room today to address that.
Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production Company MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yeah Matt thanks for the question.
We did have interest in our Cedar Creek net profits interest project asset there.
And when we looked at the offers versus what we felt the value of the asset is we just felt like that we should continue marketing particularly given the fact that what we get is a monthly check which is our net proceeds from the asset.
There are no operations or engineering capability requirements and there is no capital investment needed.
So we are continuing to market it and when we get the appropriate – a good price for it then we'll move forward with that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Pat.
And is there anything you can tell us about the buyers on your other side of the five other sales? And if you don't want to name names can you at least give us a sense of kind of what type of buyers those are? Fidelity Exploration &amp; Production Company MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure Matt.
Obviously we have confidentiality clauses in all of the purchase sales agreements but I can – so won't be able to disclose the names of the companies but I can tell you they are all private E&amp;P companies.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Shifting gears.
I noticed in the press release and your commentary you kind of changed the language in terms of the expected utility rate base growth.
Could you talk a little bit about why that change? Utility Group MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yeah Matt.
This is Nicole.
I can answer that question.
We are currently as Dave indicated in his talking points in the process of developing our long range capital corporate-wide and we will be releasing that over the next two weeks.
And so one comment that I would provide as the utility looks at its capital with the recent release of the Clean Power Plan we are currently evaluating what that means for us.
And in terms of the capital we do not expect at this point to have anything in that capital forecast related to the cost of compliance.
It's just a little bit too uncertain at this point but we will be coming out with our new capital numbers here in a couple of weeks.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Matt...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Sorry? No I was just going to say Matt – this is Doran – the one thing that I'd highlight too around the capital forecast that you'll see it will be more line of sight as it relates to capital over the five-year forecast fewer placeholders.
We had some of those in last year and they are making any necessary changes for some of those projects that didn't materialize over the course of 2015 obviously that will be reflected in the 2015 forecast as well so just again the highlight as you see that forecast coming out here in the next couple of weeks would be much more line of sight than the last year's five-year forecast.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Doran.
And then I guess as a follow-up to that you talked about kind of some level of the utility CapEx the prior plan being at risk and have a prolonged Bakken E&amp;P downturn scenario.
Are you starting to lean more towards that – I mean lower for longer camp where you might kind of take some of that out of the next five-year plan or does that still look kind of needed at this point? Utility Group MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I believe in the past as we've got that question Matt.
When we look at 2015 – I guess just to give you a little perspective in 2015 – we expect to spend still around that $60 million of capital in the Bakken region.
As we've been asking folks to compile forecast over the next five years looking to next year we do expect that number to come down a little bit and as we look out into the years beyond 2016 as I've indicated previously we believe that number is still going to be in that $20 million to $25 million range.
However when you take that in the mix of the entire capital program for the utility again I would just echo the comments that that is a pretty small share of our overall capital program.
So we do anticipate that the capital will come down slightly in the Bakken area over the forecast period as we would expect our customer growth rates as well.
But I would highlight that we do continue to benefit across the States from a higher customer growth rate than the average.
So hopefully that provides you a little commentary around the Bakken area.
We do expect the capital and customers to come off however are still focused on the remaining capital we have across our entire service territory.
Inc.</span></strong> Make sense.
Thanks Nicole.
I had a few more but I will jump back in the queue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you Matt.
Next question will come from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
I was wondering if you could tell us what the weather impact was year-to-date and for the quarter versus normal? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You want us to walk through each of the business lines Paul giving weather impacts? No.
Maybe a few of the more major ones but no – I was just speaking just in general.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll take first shot at that.
I'd say weather at utility was more of a normal third quarter when we think year-over-year more of a normal quarter there where we did hit some air conditioning loads but offset by some cooler attempts so somewhat normal.
I think we had a very favorable weather when we think about our construction businesses provided Mr.
Barney and his team a lot of opportunities to be out in the field and putting – laying down product that was certainly helpful.
But I would say weather wasn't kind of one move or one way or the other for the quarter kind of somewhat normal not really what (22:33) we expected.
Okay.
That's great.
And then you guys mentioned M&amp;A opportunity at the utility business.
I was just wondering if you could sort of comment on some of the valuations that we have been seeing in the sector and how you guys might feel about – I mean we've seen some recent announcements.
And how should we think about your approach to his potential opportunity? Utility Group MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Nicole.
I'll take that.
We do continue to look at our business obviously and beyond just the organic growth.
One of the positives that we've focused on in the past and we'll continue to focus on is just what we can deliver from an organic perspective.
Our rate-based growth is above what you see and a lot of utilities and so our primary focus of course is executing on that organic growth.
Now over time and even as recently we continue to monitor the M&amp;A market just like you're commenting on.
Certainly the valuations have been higher than we've seen in the past.
And we also have seen the pace of that acquisition environment pick up.
We will continue to monitor that but at the same token maintain what we believe is our financial discipline on any execution of a transaction there.
So I guess to leave you with the takeaways we've got great organic growth within our existing businesses but we will continue to monitor the M&amp;A market.
Okay.
And so when you look at those valuations could you see yourself doing a transaction at those levels? Utility Group MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> I guess what we'll have to do in each particular case is continue to monitor where we're at corporate wide in terms of the utilities position within the overall corporation.
So that is something we'll continue to monitor.
I think you can't never say never I guess.
We'll continue to monitor those things but I will tell you that as a corporation we do maintain a financial discipline when evaluating prospective deals.
Okay.
And then...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Paul I can add just maybe just a little more color to that in the fact that clearly we watch what multiples are being offered into the market and the pace at which the recent deals have really come about.
Nicole did mention our financial discipline that's very important to us as well.
And so while we look at that I think you really have to look at this on a case-by-case basis so that's what we've seen from – as we watch some of the more regional consolidation going on that's really what it looks like and we still think that that opportunity still presents itself more in our neck of the woods over the longer term.
Okay.
And then in terms of the refinery outlook and stuff you guys mentioned some initiatives that you guys have been undertaking what have you and I was wondering if you could share with us sort of the outlook this quarter in terms of turning the situation around at the refinery in the near-term.
WBI Holdings Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Hey Paul.
This is Martin.
How we sort of think about it is I with (25:38) the team is there are things we can control and things we can.
Obviously we would be unaffected by the pricing in terms of the bases in the Bakken and in terms of diesel and naphtha sale prices have been down though they are starting to climb back.
So things that we can control is we've just started marketing a winter diesel product that's good to 40 degrees below.
Depending on the weather we think we could get anywhere from $0.10 to $0.20 premium.
And we're also in the process of – we don't use biofuels and blend because of where we're financially we're actually going to file for a potential refund of a couple of million dollars.
And then with the start-up and sort of break in process we have a lot of contractors we've been using to keep things up to speed.
We see that leveling off and becoming a little more lean and mean on that side.
And then also we're in the process of working through debottlenecking.
Our crude tower can do 30 000 barrels per day.
It's going to take us couple of years to work our way through but we're going to continue to work on that and currently obviously we're at 20 000 barrels per day.
Okay.
And then just finally on the E&amp;P sales can we assume these are cash sales? Are there any contingencies or any financing situation where MDU's going to be financing it for some period of time or what have you? Are these basically cash sales? Yeah.
Paul this is Doran.
I'll just give you some flavor I think as we think about the Fidelity sale.
As it relates to the PSAs those are our cash deals.
But as we think about the deals in the broader context from a strategy standpoint impact on the stock we feel like it's good to clear an overhang of uncertainty around the stock and allow us as Dave mentioned to focus our capital allocation on the remaining business units.
We think the value is fair if not better to recently announced deals.
From a use of proceeds perspective as we announced $450 million.
About $325 million of that is in the cash proceeds; $125 million relates to net operating loss refunds or carryforwards due to selling certain assets below the tax basis.
So we would anticipate as we announced use of proceeds to repay debt essentially at Fidelity allocated debt.
And a lot of that will happen here in 2015 about $300 million and then the remaining $125 million will happen probably into 2016 potentially 2017 but primarily 2016 as we monetize those NOLs on future tax returns.
And I'd just also say as it relates to the balance sheet we do like the stronger credit profile that we have credit rating of BBB plus and stable and post Fidelity we view that as even stronger going forward.
So a little bit of color commentary on our view on the sale.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Paul.
Your next question will come from the line of Christopher Varga with Evercore.
Hey guys.
It's Timm.
Everything has been answered.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Timm.
Your next question will come from the line of Mike Hacke with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Mike.
Inc.</span></strong> So I just wanted to go back to the balance sheet really quickly.
Understanding that you'll take some of the proceeds or all the proceeds to reduce debt in the near-term I mean how much flexibility do you think you would have to run with a little bit higher debt now that E&amp;P is out of the mix and to what extent do you think you'd be taking advantage of that on a go-forward basis? Yeah Mike good question.
That is a conversation obviously that we need to have with the rating agencies both that follow us have us at a BBB-plus stable outlook.
Clearly the business risk profile is stronger by reducing our exposure to commodity prices going forward.
I think what we've said in the past is our primary funding mechanism is using operating cash flows.
We do utilize the balance sheet going forward too using debt.
And I think that will continue.
I think one of the things you will see though Mike is our debt to cap ratio for example has risen.
It's higher this year than last year.
And there is some – a couple of primary reasons for that.
One is obviously the write-downs that we've had at Fidelity this year but again that will reverse itself a bit as we get refunds or cash proceeds in from the transaction and repay the debt.
The other thing too Mike is I think just by definition as we invest in our businesses going forward a lot of our capital is at the utility that by definition will require more debt because we fund that at a 50-50 debt to cap target.
So as we invest in that strong investment program that will pull up the debt to cap ratio just due to that and still in our view maintain a strong balance sheet.
So we're willing to use the balance sheet Mike but still committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's all for me.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Mike.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey follow-up for Doran.
Can you tell us how much debt is allocated to Fidelity? And would you be able to tell us expected interest savings from the paydown with the Fidelity proceeds or maybe just at least the weighted average interest rate on the Fidelity debt? Yeah.
I certainly can Matt.
The amount of debt at Fidelity and it's allocated debt is $425 million at the end of September and roughly $300 million of that is short-term debt and $125 million of that is longer term debt that we would deal with after 2015.
Interest expense so far on a year-to-date basis through September at Fidelity on an allocated basis is roughly $11 million and again we'd anticipate the majority of that to go away as we repay debt here by the end of 2015.
There will be some in 2016 but substantially taken care of by the end of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And then maybe one for Martin in terms of expanding into additional basins Martin could you comment on how you're thinking about organically doing that versus via M&amp;A? WBI Holdings Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Matt I would – obviously we want to be financially disciplined.
I think we're in a great position in the Williston Basin and the Bakken region to grow organically.
Obviously things are slowing down but because of our pipes here we have an opportunity just like the two projects you saw where we're adding additional compression or looping pipelines.
And we're in the position where we've actually done the tail gas piping for other midstream providers because our folks get it in very effectively.
We've got a good engineering department and a great internal construction team.
Obviously they're strong in what I would call the flat areas over the hills but probably not the big mountains.
So as we look around we would probably look to get a beach head in some of the other similar basins that would have similar topography.
We could try to grow organically there and we do focus but it's hard to get into basins if you don't have a foothold folks tend to dismiss you especially in a down-market.
So I think you will see us actively looking.
I think that's one of the silver linings in this slowdown.
There are a lot of midstreams out there that are starting to feel pain as you know they tend to run a year or two years behind the production company pains especially a lot of – there's a lot of folks out there backed by private equity who've got essentially acreage dedication contracts.
And I think in the year ahead you're going to continue to see some of those folks have to put things up for sale.
So I think obviously it's on a case-by-case basis for us and if it's at right price and we'll have to be financially disciplined.
And we're actively out looking and that's our plan.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Martin.
That's very helpful.
And then final question from me is it still a plan to announce the new five-year CapEx plan in a couple of weeks but to wait to announce 2016 guidance and your financing plan until the fourth quarter call? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes Matt that would be correct.
We have our board meeting actually just next week.
That's a major topic for our board to review and act upon.
It would be our five-year CapEx.
And so on the heels of that we would look to release that five-year CapEx plan.
Again as Doran mentioned earlier more of a line of sight CapEx plan certainly in the early years of that just to set some expectations there as we think about that.
And then overall guidance for 2016 would be – with fourth quarter release on or about February 1.
Inc.</span></strong> Sounds good.
Thanks and I'll...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Inc.</span></strong> ...see you at EEI.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Thanks Matt.
Your next question will come from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Brent.
Hey Dave or Jeff it seems like you have heard a bit more around labor challenges in the construction market.
Are you seeing similar challenges on your end? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Brent your question was – questioning about labor challenges at each of the construction business was that your question? That's correct.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Maybe we'll start with Mr.
Barney and then move on to Mr.
Thiede.
Knife River Corporation MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Hey Brent.
Hey.
Knife River Corporation MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> We've seen labor challenges in certain areas especially North Dakota even though it's starting to settle down a little bit now with a little bit of slowdown in the energy market.
We're getting a few more good employees there.
Overall we are having more of a labor challenge with drivers than anything else.
We're having hard time filling our trucks but our team's doing a good job of getting them into seat but we do definitely have some inexperienced people out there in that.
But yeah overall it's starting to improve.
MDU Construction Services Group Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Brent this is Jeff.
We're seeing some pressure on competition for employees in our labor area.
Our outside business is getting alignment into the trade and also up through the ranks.
It has been one of our challenges we're seeing at nationwide.
But also where we've expanded our equipment business we are increasing our labor force there.
So we have connected with continuing education organization within the local area in addition to being involved in the apprenticeship training to be able to provide some outreach into the high schools to be able to get people into the trades and provide a good carrier in our industry.
And Jeff as you see that labor market tightening does that tends to help your margins over time? MDU Construction Services Group Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Well it can.
It's a supply and demand situation.
So it does.
At the same time we have to deliver our services for our customers.
So the challenges for us is to be able to attract people into our industry confident people get them trained and get them to operate safe and productively to be able to address the work demand that we're seeing in our business.
Okay.
And then maybe back to Dave year-to-date revenue growth has been real solid for the materials and contracting but it was a little bit slower this period.
Do you think you pulled in some work into the first half or are you walking away from a little more business that doesn't meet your margin requirements? Knife River Corporation MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> We definitely are more disciplined on our margin requirements on our construction backlog.
As you know we had a record backlog in May of this year of $833 million.
When you have a nice backlog Brent you can be a little more picky on what's you're going after.
And with the market improvement and with the momentum we're seeing in our industry you can definitely continue to raise your margins and be able to more picky about what work you're going to take.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Brent.
This marks the last call for questions.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on November 17.
The conference ID number for the replay is 57967847.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 57967847.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I'll be your conference facilitator.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the MDU Resources Group 2015 Yearend Results and 2016 Guidance Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern Time today through 11:59 PM Eastern Time on February 18.
The conference ID number for the replay is 9233329.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 9233329.
The number to dial for the replay is 855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Doran Schwartz Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MDU Resources Group.
Thank you.
Mr.
Schwartz you may begin your conference.
Thank you good morning everybody.
Welcome to our earnings release conference call.
This conference call is being broadcast live to the public over the Internet and slides will accompany our remarks.
If you'd like to view those slides please go to our website at www.mdu.com and follow the link to the conference call.
Our earnings release is also available on our website.
During the course of this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although the company believes that its expectations and beliefs are based on reasonable assumptions actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ refer to Item 1A Risk Factors in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and the Risk Factors section in our most recent Form 8-K.
Our format today will include formal remarks from Dave Goodin President and CEO of MDU Resources followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Other members of our management team who will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A session of the conference call today are: Dave Barney President and CEO of Knife River Corporation; Nicole Kivisto President and CEO of Montana-Dakota Great Plains Natural Gas Cascade Natural Gas and Intermountain Gas; Martin Fritz President and CEO of WBI Energy; Jeff Thiede President and CEO of MDU Construction Services Group; and Nathan Ring Vice President Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for MDU Resources.
And with that I'll turn the presentation over to Dave for his formal remarks.
Dave? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Doran and good morning.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss our 2015 yearend results as well as guidance for this year.
Our businesses had some notable successes last year including record earnings at our construction materials business.
Our utility group executed well on a record capital budget and continued to experience good customer growth.
Our pipeline group had record throughput for the third consecutive year and we made good progress on the sale of Fidelity's assets and each of our businesses is carrying good momentum into 2016.
However I am not satisfied with our overall earnings performance in 2015.
Consolidated adjusted earnings for the year totaled $180 million or $0.92 per share compared with $205.5 million or $1.07 per share in 2014.
On a GAAP basis we had a loss of $623.1 million or $3.20 per share compared to 2014 earnings of $297.5 million or $1.55 per share.
Most of that loss occurred in the first three quarters of 2015 and is largely associated with our oil and gas business Fidelity and our decision to exit that business.
I am pleased to report that we have nearly completed the sale of Fidelity's oil and gas assets.
We have closed on the sale of four asset packages and we have signed a purchase and sale agreement on a fifth asset package as well.
These five sales represent more than 93% of Fidelity's 2014 production.
We are continuing to market the one remaining asset package.
As we reported previously aggregate sale proceeds from related tax benefits for the five sales are estimated to be approximately $450 million.
We plan to use these proceeds primarily for debt repayment.
And this strategic shift will allow us to move forward with a lower business risk profile which we expect will include above average regulated capital expenditure growth at the utility.
Now let's take a look at how our businesses performed last year.
The first order of business is to say congratulations to Dave Barney and his team at Knife River.
Our construction materials business had record adjusted earnings last year of $90.6 million.
Adjusted earnings rose by 51% on 8% growth in revenue.
So they are doing an excellent job of managing costs and margins.
Aggregate and ready-mix volumes increased by 4% and asphalt volumes were up 11% and margins were up across all product lines.
The earnings growth has spread across every one of Knife River's regional operations.
Knife River had a record yearend backlog also of $491 million which is 12% higher than the 2014 yearend backlog of $438 million.
This backlog does not include a $63.4 million contract awarded to Knife in January here in 2016 to reconstruct a portion of Interstate I-29 near Sioux City Iowa.
This will be the largest contract in Knife River's history.
This is a great start to the year and we are optimistic about additional opportunities now that Congress has passed the $305 billion five-year federal highway bill.
Our construction services business reported adjusted earnings of $25.2 million.
A priority in 2015 was rebuilding workload commitments after completing several higher margin projects in 2014.
That helped them achieve two consecutive years of record earnings.
That effort was successful.
Their backlog at yearend now stands at $493 million about 62% higher than the $305 million at yearend in 2014.
This is their highest yearend backlog since 2008.
Our total construction backlog now is more than $1 billion so these businesses had a great start to the year.
And margins at both businesses are expected to be slightly higher this year as well.
To provide some additional clarity in guidance we are now adding EBITDA ranges for each business segment in addition to what we have provided in the past.
Here we have projected 2016 EBITDA between $215 million and $235 million for construction materials and $65 million to $85 million for construction services.
Now turning to our utility business our utility business reported earnings of $59.5 million.
Weather during the heating season was warmer than prior year across our eight-state service region resulting in a $7.2 million earnings impact from lower natural gas sales and lower residential electric retail sales.
Other factors included higher O&amp;M expense higher depreciation depletion and amortization expense due to increased plant additions which is included in rate cases for potential recovery.
This was partially offset by natural gas and electric rate increases in several jurisdictions.
Our utility group is coming off a record year of $464 million in capital investments last year.
These include the Thunder Spirit Wind generation facility that began operating here in late December completion of a new air quality control system at the Big Stone plant and infrastructure improvements in our natural gas business.
The customer base continues to grow across utilities' eight-state service territory.
The total customer count is now at about 1.05 million an increase of about 2% over 2014.
The utilities also have been working hard to recover their investments along with a reasonable return.
Since the beginning of 2015 the utility has implemented $28.5 million in final rates and $20.8 million in interim rates.
Pending cases total an additional $38.9 million along with request to finalize the interim rates that have been implemented.
The utility expects to grow its $1.8 billion rate base by approximately 7% compounded annually over the next five years.
Projected 2016 EBITDA for the utility group is between $245 million and $265 million.
Turning to our pipeline and midstream segment here we had adjusted earnings of $23.9 million and these reflect lower processing revenue at our Pronghorn facility lower natural gas gathering volumes and lower storage service revenues due to lower interruptible storage withdrawals.
These decreases were partially offset by higher transportation rates and record transportation volumes for the third consecutive year.
The pipeline and midstream continues to grow its traditional northern Rockies base and its two 2016 expansion projects underway.
The North Badlands and Northwest North Dakota projects will connect third-party processing facilities to interstate pipes and add approximately 88 000 dekatherms per day of capacity.
At the same time the business is also evaluating expansion opportunities in other basins and these will come primarily through acquisitions.
At WBI Energy our projected 2016 EBITDA for the pipeline and midstream business stands at between $60 million and $70 million.
Our refining segment includes the company's 50% interest in the Dakota Prairie Refinery which began commercial operations just in May of last year.
Our share of 2015 refining results is an adjusted loss of $20.5 million.
Earnings were impacted by unplanned outages in October and November due to equipment problems that have since been repaired.
Economics have also been affected by historically low Bakken differentials from the West Texas Intermediate pricing which has reduced the discount for our oil feedstock.
In addition reduced oilfield activity in the Bakken has decreased the demand for diesel fuel along with the slowdown in Canadian tar sands development has also reduced the demand for naphtha.
Our share of projected 2016 EBITDA is at a minus $25 million to zero.
As we talk about our overall guidance for 2016 you will see that refining has been moved from the pipeline business to a separate segment.
This will provide investors with transparency both on the refinery and the value of our regulated pipeline business.
We're excluding it from adjusted guidance because the refining industry tends not to give earnings guidance due to the volatility and unpredictable nature of the key commodity assumptions supporting its financial results.
We believe this approach to adjusted EPS allows for a narrower more meaningful range for investors while still providing sufficient guidance for investors to evaluate the refining segment.
We are initiating 2016 adjusted guidance in the range of $1 to $1.15 per share.
Adjusted earnings guidance includes results from the utility pipeline and midstream and construction businesses.
GAAP earnings per share guidance which includes results from the refinery is expected to be in the range of $0.85 to $1.10 per share.
So to wrap things up I would like to key on several points.
We are firmly focused on improving our financial performance and growing our businesses.
We are positive about the future of MDU Resources along with our five-year CapEx plan of $2.3 billion.
This reflects our confidence in our opportunities to grow and execute our business plans.
This plan includes $342 million in 2016; we do not plan to issue equity to fund these expenditures but instead expect to fund them from operating cash flows.
And I would be remiss if I didn't note that we remain committed to our common stock dividend.
We are proud of our rich dividend history which includes 78 years of uninterrupted dividends and 25 consecutive years of dividend increases.
I appreciate your interest and commitment to MDU Resources and would be happy to open up the lines to questions at this time.
Operator? Your first question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Matt.
Inc.</span></strong> Dave I think you kind of pre-answered my first question a little bit.
I was curious if you'd be willing to share some of your commodity price assumptions underlying the refinery guidance for the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we can give you some ranges there Matt but again there are only going to be some ranges involved here.
And so I will turn it over to Martin to give you maybe just a little color what we are thinking about the plant in general and maybe touch on the commodity side.
WBI Holdings Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Hey Matt obviously we want to control the stuff we can control in the operational and pricing just to give you an idea of magnitude probably the biggest thing as you are aware of the fact that it is the Bakken basis.
So basically every dollar move in Bakken basis moves at about $7.5 million roughly rounded in the direction.
Where we are in Bakken basis historically is it's been in the $8 to $10 range.
Recently we've been seeing it in the $3 to $5 range mark as recently in January and February it's actually been ticking up a little bit.
My gut is in the forecast over this year that's kind of the range we are expecting with it coming back over the longer term in terms of the basis for what the cost of transportation either rail to the East or West Coast which runs about $10 or piping down to Houston which runs into that $8 to $10 range once you stack the various rates so hopefully that gives you a little bit of flavor.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful and I guess it would also be helpful to get your current thoughts kind of longer term strategically thinking about how the refinery fits in with your longer term plans? WBI Holdings Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yeah obviously longer term – short-term we are working on optimizing where the plant is at.
Longer-term you know this is a business you have to get in on scale not just one refinery you have to have several or else you would exit.
Obviously we may not be the right long-term owner but at this point that decision hasn't been made.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it thanks.
And then you discussed back in the fall an arctic diesel product that you were hoping would fetch a premium how has the traction been with that and I guess – I mean I assume it is pretty mild fourth quarter and did that kind of impact your ability to get that premium? WBI Holdings Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yes absolutely.
The combination of mild plus our outage related to our hydrogen plant impacted that.
What we are seeing on cold days right now is we are seeing sort of an $0.08 to $0.10 premium; on the warm days it's basically selling for number-two diesel so we are seeing it fluctuate in there.
We are expecting next year probably to come back.
We did have somebody earlier in the year approach us for a deal to sign a bunch of it at $0.10 premium obviously we did not take at this point but longer run we think over the time period that we think it will – the margin sort of in that $0.10 to $0.20 probably range of premium.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
And then shifting gears to the utilities given all the rate activity that you've recently completed and have pending and the overall weather headwinds you experienced in 2015 and I guess I was surprised the utility guidance wasn't a little bit higher.
Can you maybe just discuss how you are baking in pending rate decisions into the guidance and maybe also give us a sense for what you are assuming in terms of customer growth in O&amp;M? Utility Group MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Sure Matt this is Nicole.
As we look ahead you've got pretty clear line of sight in terms of the regulatory activity we have in our case.
I know particularly you are probably wondering okay we've requested this much what will we receive of those requests? A couple of things to keep in mind as you think about 2016.
One is several of these cases we do have hearing dates scheduled but for instance if you look at Washington that case will not be implemented that's we are thinking that will be late in 2016.
So you kind of have to go down by state to determine at what point we'd actually get the release in the 2016 plan.
So again that's kind of a staggered approach depending on the state.
We do have hearings set in most of these cases and where we can get interim we have implemented interim rates as you saw in the news release as well.
So I guess with all of our capital and the record capital that we executed on here in 2015 and the pending rate cases we do anticipate as you saw in the news release upside to our 2016 earnings.
So does that help give you a flavor in terms of I mean each state is going to be a little bit different.
I could comment on what we've gotten historically we've executed on some natural gas cases in North Dakota South Dakota and – North Dakota Wyoming and Montana and in those cases we got about 70% of our request.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's very helpful Nicole.
And I guess apologies if I missed this but where did you finish up 2015 in terms of customer growth? And I guess what are you kind of expecting going forward can you comment on – I'm sure you may be seeing some slowdown in North Dakota given what's going on with the Bakken activities and maybe if you could just comment on what you are seeing there? Utility Group MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yes on an overall basis we ended 2015 up about 2% on customers as it relates to the Bakken Matt.
We actually still saw some pretty good increases in the Bakken area.
Our electric Bakken growth was up 5.5% on the customer side and gas was up 2.3%.
If you compare those Bakken growth rates to last year they are actually pretty consistent down a little bit on the gas side.
Of course the question we're getting is 'well why is that with all the slowdown?' As a reminder we are not serving the wells and rigs.
We are serving the communities.
And what we think is happening in terms of that growth still being steady for us in 2015 here is that folks are moving from temporary to permanent housing in the communities in which we serve.
We do expect as you would as well that that would slow down here a little bit in 2016.
We're projecting around 1.5% to 2% growth across our territories and as I always remind people I know that Bakken gets a lot of the focus but we do operate in eight states and we see growth across all of our eight states going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Nicole.
And then I just wanted to ask on Construction Services your backlog for the quarter is the highest it's been in several years.
Your revenue guidance suggests pretty nice growth but still maybe not as high as couple years back.
Just curious what you're seeing? Are you assuming or seeing some kind of slowdown entering the year? Maybe just kind of comment on those assumptions.
MDU Construction Services Group Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Okay Matt.
This is Jeff.
Thanks for your question.
Those two years were record years for us 2013 and 2014 and we obviously didn't experience that in 2015.
We were working on our backlog.
Our backlog dropped in 2015 and it did impact us in 2015.
So we have secured $493 million of backlog.
It's the highest it's been in 2008.
Primarily we're seeing some growth opportunities in the outside transmission market where we picked up a 130-mile transmission project in the Midwest.
We've got a project with the Department of Homeland Security in the Midwest as well and we're also starting to see some increases in the healthcare work and mission-critical work.
And last but not least our solar renewables group we have two projects underway and we're getting ready to start a 50-megawatt solar facility in the Southwest where we're designing we're constructing we're also the owner of that plant.
So most of these projects are contributors to that backlog number.
We look at 2016 as a positive year going forward.
And couple the backlog with the work that we have the higher margin work that's never in our backlog we're looking positive at 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
I had a couple more but I'll give others a chance.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Brent.
On the refinery I know market conditions have been tough there.
There seemed to be lot of moving parts though this quarter and in terms of the unplanned outages is there a way we can think about the drag on earnings this quarter for that segment? WBI Holdings Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Brent we were down almost approximately a month.
It was all related to the hydrogen plant and we are past that.
We're probably going to have some issues with our vendor on that plant but ultimately we think we've got that handle.
So on a go-forward basis we're really happy with where operations are in terms of operating the plant day-to-day.
I would characterize what we put out there as a 90% target in terms of about 21 days maybe for the year outage and so that's the guidance.
I hope that helps.
Okay and then a follow up and excuse me if this sounds like a stupid question but you mentioned the guidance includes an expectation for 90% utilization in 2016.
I guess that just seems high to me given kind of the demand outlook.
I guess why would you expect it to run at these levels or why does it make sense to continue running at these levels if we're going to continue to see losses? WBI Holdings Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Well there is still a margin on diesel.
It's not as robust as it was.
So ultimately that is – as long as there is a margin we will continue to operate at a percentage.
If we don't see it we would obviously take it down.
Our marketing group has also been having some success taking some diesel out of the basin also.
So we think that over the whole year period we think we'll probably be able to attain those levels but obviously one of the things you see in our guidance is we have given a range based on pricing because that's one thing we've learned over the years we can't control and so you've got to operate as well as you can and react to when it's there.
So obviously if we are having negative pricing we would turn down the plant.
Got it.
That's helpful.
Appreciate that.
And then any guesses on when the federal transportation bill starts to kind of have a broader impact on state lettings or your business overall? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes Brent I'll ask Dave Barney to comment on that.
It directly affects his business in a positive way.
Dave? Knife River Corporation MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Hey Brent.
Hey Dave.
Knife River Corporation MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> We're excited about the (25:55) long-term transportation bill finally passed it's definitely going to be a positive impact for our industry but we don't expect much to come out of it in 2016.
We're excited about the potential of bringing 2017 and beyond but 2016 we don't see much movement.
Okay very good.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Brent.
Your next question comes from the line of Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Sarah.
So just looking at 2015 if we add back the $0.03 to $0.04 of weather and then exclude the refinery loss comparing that to the midpoint of 2016 guidance it looks like the growth there is less than 1% or so.
So can you just help us understand looking at the various segments why you're not seeing much underlying growth into 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So if you compare year-over-year as you neutralized out there when we think of 2015 when we think of even at the Construction Services business Jeff already talked about the margin and the backlog that we had in the 2015 really a reloading year looking at that differently given our point in time now with year-end backlog here starting 2016.
So believe that to be a positive.
We do see at our Pipeline and Midstream business where we talk about commodity exposure that we have at the refinery there is still some commodity exposure we have within some of our processing that we have particularly in western North Dakota so that would be some exposure that we'd have there.
I think some offsets to that year-over-year certainly would be Dave Barney's business with the strong backlogs.
Dave touched on that.
We've got some federal highway funding may not be a large influence we believe in 2016 but actually be beyond that.
And then as we think about the utility business while that record capital of $464 million last year invested in the business was a record on top of the record year before that.
Nicole and her regulatory team have very extensive outline of all the regulatory activity.
She touched on the timing of completing those cases based within statutory requirements very state by state some are six months some are out to 11 months to 12 months and so we've factored that in so far as recovery of those investments.
So I know it's a longer answer Sarah but there's really separate drivers for each business.
And if you'd like to get into more detail by each I'd be happy to do so.
Yes and Sarah this is Doran.
We did try and give a bit more transparency and guidance as it relates to each business unit from 2015 going into 2016.
If you go back in the press release to each of the business unit sections and take a look at operating income and add back depreciation that's pretty close to what you'll find for EBITDA for 2015 and then we are giving the EBITDA ranges so for example at the utility if you were to add that up it's about call it $215 million and then we've provided our guidance range for 2016 at $245 million to $265 million.
And so if you do that by business unit it gives you a feel I think for some of the growth that we're anticipating at least on an EBITDA basis to try and help you modeling 2016 versus 2015.
Okay.
And then on the construction business it looks like in Q4 results were down 30% earnings were down 30% and the press release talks about lower aggregate margins and lower equipment sales and rental margins.
Can you comment on those trends and whether you expect that will persist into 2016 or if it was something unique about Q4? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes thank you Sarah.
We'll answer that separately.
I'll ask Dave Barney here and then after Dave talks about the materials group we'll then have Jeff Thiede talk about services because each had separate drivers there.
Dave Barney? Knife River Corporation MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Hi Sarah.
Hi.
Knife River Corporation MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> First in the fourth quarter Sarah weather had a significant impact on our earnings.
We had quite a bit of rain in our Northwest region and the California region and even in Texas.
So we had weather impact for us in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Okay got it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jeff.
MDU Construction Services Group Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yes and Sarah this is Jeff.
Our fourth quarter was the highest quarter for us last year.
So we've built some momentum into 2016 with our backlog increase.
We think that's going to be a positive for us going forward.
That should translate into a better year.
Got you.
And then one last one shifting to the utility I see the 7% rate base growth is unchanged from the November update.
Does that reflect the impact of bonus depreciation? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sarah you broke up a little bit on the call here.
I got part of that but if you could repeat your question I want to make sure we get it? Sure.
So the 7% rate base growth is unchanged from the November updates and since then we've had the extension of bonus depreciation.
So just wondering if that 7% rate base growth already reflects the impact of bonus through 2019? Sarah this is Doran.
No it does not.
We are evaluating whether or not to elect bonus depreciation.
One of the factors there as you know we had significant net operating losses generated from Fidelity in 2015.
And that could potentially impact us in terms of our ability to realize certain credits in part of the utility and some of the other business units.
And so we're evaluating whether or not it makes more economic sense to not lose perms for the benefit of the temporary differences and then as to an election or not an election of bonus depreciation with the recent extension.
So we haven't quite made that decision yet but it does not reflect bonus depreciation at this point.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you Sarah.
Your next question comes from the line of Timm Schneider with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Just one quick follow up on the refineries.
How much of the I guess shortfall versus guidance or initial guidance is tied to the volume declines versus just margin? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Can you repeat that? I'm sorry.
Yes so I'd like to know how much of the impact is there in like volume declines less trucks in the Bakken or what not versus margin impact? WBI Holdings Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> The majority right now is the margin impact.
It's on where our base has moved and where diesel pricing has moved.
Great.
Got it.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Timm.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
A lot of my questions have been answered but I wanted to follow up on Sarah's question about bonus depreciation and whether or not you will take it.
Isn't it sort of a question of I guess do you have the discretion as to whether or not to take it with respect to the regulatory jurisdictions that you are in? Well so basically Paul the decision point there with the regulators is what's the better deal for the customer and so that is what will drive the decision.
And if we lose certain credits because we've built up a significant tax loss which impacts our ability to take those credits if that results in a worse deal for the rate payer then the case can be made not to elect bonus depreciation.
But those are the conversations we're having with regulators currently to evaluate what's the better option for the rate payer.
Can you defer any of these? So in other words you've got tax assets that have to be used or – they can't be deferred.
Is that where we're at this point that even if you need deferral of these if you were to elect bonus depreciation you couldn't defer any of those? Utility Group MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yes this is Nicole and I'll just weigh in to echo what Doran was saying.
Really what we're doing is evaluating that at the corporate level in terms of the election just as he said.
The other thing I would add on to that though is on our wind assets we are still getting the PTCs and accelerated depreciation.
So we'll monitor the overall benefit or not of bonus depreciation basically on a year-by-year basis here and do what's the best for the customer.
Okay.
I guess what that would sort of suggest though to Sarah's question though is meaning – the rate base impact one would think would be somewhat factored in one way or the other I guess and that's why I'm a little bit confused by.
We can talk about this I guess offline I don't want to – maybe it's too complicated to get into right now.
But let me ask you this with respect to the Montana rejecting the interim increase and the sort of statements that were made by the commissioners et cetera could you just give us a little bit of a flavor as to what you're encountering just generally speaking with the substantial CapEx that you guys have with the regulatory and economic environment that you're encountering particularly in the Bakken related areas if there's any change in terms of your outlook in terms of growth in general at the utilities? Utility Group MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yeah I guess what we've got in the news release really reflects the growth we're currently anticipating.
So from a rate base perspective we are still comfortable with that 7% CAGR that we're publishing.
Now that is lower than what we've previously stated and of course one of the main reasons is we just finished as Dave mentioned two record years of capital.
And so you're building up a much larger base.
So when you look at our rate base the projects that are in there are really identifiable line of sight projects.
In terms of the capital outlay in the Bakken we did note in the news release that certainly that has come down but even as of last year we were projecting that in the out years of our forecast that capital outlay in the Bakken was going to range in that $25 million-ish per year.
And so when you look at that over all the capital we have certainly that's only a very small piece of the capital that we have in place.
So that kind of gives you a perspective and I commented earlier on the customer side we are looking at the 1.5% and 2% growth on the customer side.
In terms of the regulatory arena the additional commentary I'd give you there Montana you specifically asked on the denial of interim.
There were couple of factors I think that came into play there; one we were pretty close to our hearing date and so I think the commission said let this play out at the hearing.
And in terms of some of the commentary in the marketplace on the Bakken and the slowdown when you look at what we built out we have really the assets that we're seeking to recover the large ones are environmental or capacity additions.
On the environmental side really those dollars – the question has come up around the Clean Power Plan and noting that should we be putting these investments in our coal facility.
When you look at the investments we made at the time that Clean Power Plan was not in place but even so we had modeled those over much shorter lives and really said even if this coal facility is on a shorter timetable would this still be the best investment for our customer and the answer was yes so we did proceed with those investments.
On the generation side in terms of the capacity needs and the build out that we did in the Bakken even with what we've put in place we still are projecting capacity shortfall here in 2017.
So I guess I believe that these were prudent investments.
To the extent that we could we did seek ADP in the states that we could for these investments and we were granted ADP so far none of those projects have been denied and in the cases that we've completed.
So does that answer the question? Yes you've covered the – yes thank you very much.
And then in terms of just in the construction material business given the large amount of public – of the backlog that's been public as opposed to private just in general I mean from a GDP economic cycle perspective how sensitive should we think of that business being to a potential economic slowdown that some people might be worried about going forward? And then were you guys more resistant perhaps to what economic cycle because of your public exposure than other one.
Knife River Corporation MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Yeah Paul right now with the DOT budgets that we see out there the long term transportation bill just getting passed we're not too concerned but obviously if we have a slowdown in the economy it definitely will affect us.
Sure but it'll be probably less than – because it is public....
Knife River Corporation MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Obviously less than what we saw in 2008-2009.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
VP &amp; Controller</span></strong> Paul excuse me this is Nathan just to go back to help clarify the bonus depreciation question that you had earlier the election of bonus depreciation specific to the utility and I think you alluded to this a little bit it may defer the use of some of those credits to later years which then could possibly expire.
So what we are analyzing is this bonus depreciation play out compared to the expiration of those credits and whichever one is better for the utility that's one that we'll elect and so that's the decision process that we are going through.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay thank you Paul.
.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey I just had one follow-up left maybe this is for Martin.
Back at the Analyst Day and then in the materials today you commented on examining the potential expansions of the midstream business outside of the Bakken region.
Could you comment on kind of where you are looking what's looking attractive in terms of what type of assets and regions whether you are looking at organic expansions versus acquisitions and maybe how far down that path are you at this point? WBI Holdings Inc.
MDU Resources Group Inc.</span></strong> Hey Matt thanks good question.
To give you a little background we recently just brought on Keith Crawford as the Vice President of Business Development.
Keith was formerly with Energy Transfer and Regency Partners to get us set up for this.
We see within the next year or two in my opinion I think there is going to be a lot of acquisition opportunities in the midstream space.
What we would like to do is we've got a great engineering and back office and construction team and they are very good in the flat and rolling hills area so we'd like to take them and apply it to other areas.
Obviously I am agnostic it's everything at a price right where the deal is because typically the area is obviously like where we've got a strong gas strength.
So obviously Marcellus Utica come to mind it's one of the few places where they've adapted to the lower pricing and you can continue to – some producers produce profitably in natural gas space.
Things like the Permian is probably a little over bought but some of the other Texas basins those type of areas is what we would be looking at.
Yes we do try to sell organically outside but it's really hard without a sort of step-in (42:33) acquisition.
So the vision would be to get an acquisition in one of these areas and then from that build off organically from there on so I hope that helps.
Inc.</span></strong> Very helpful thanks Martin.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Matt.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 PM Eastern today through 11:59 PM Eastern on February 18.
The conference ID number for the replay is 9233329.
Again the conference ID number for the replay is 9233329.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you operator.
As we noted earlier we believe our utility pipeline midstream and construction businesses are well positioned for growth and we intend to continue to develop them to their full potential.
We expect to create greater long-term value for our MDU Resources shareholders by focusing on the successful growth businesses.
We also appreciate your participation on the call here today and thank you for your continued interest in MDU Resources.
Thanks again.
This concludes today's MDU Resources Group conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.