Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2012 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; further downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; ability to compete effectively; customary risks related to conducting global operations; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; the usage of a significant amount of our cash and resources to launch new North American automotive programs; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; unfavorable tax laws; ability to implement and profit from newly acquired technology; and the future trading price of our stock.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer of Methode Electronics.
Thank you Manny and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2012 fourth quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
For fiscal 2012 sales of $465 million and earnings per share of $0.22 met our financial guidance.
We are pleased with our year-over-year consolidated sales growth of 8.6% driven primarily by our Automotive segment which was offset by declines in our Interconnect segment a direct result of continued softness in the appliance market and the sale of our optical business in the fourth quarter of last fiscal year.
In the quarter-over-quarter comparison consolidated sales grew 5.9%.
Again strength in our Automotive segment offset challenges in our Interconnect and Power segments.
We posted full year net income of $8.4 million or $0.22 per share compared to $19.5 million or $0.52 per share in fiscal 2011.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 net income was $5.8 million or $0.15 per share compared to $10.2 million or $0.27 per share in the same period fiscal 2011.
For both periods of fiscal 2012 net income was negatively impacted by higher foreign income taxes.
For the full year of fiscal 2012 income taxes decreased net income by approximately $0.09 per share compared to fiscal 2011 where the tax benefit contributed $0.11 per share which resulted in a $0.20 EPS swing year-over-year.
Additionally there were other events which skewed the year-over-year net income comparison in the full-year period which are detailed in our release this morning.
As we have discussed over the last several quarters design development and launch costs in both our Automotive and Power Products segments continue to impact net income and gross margins.
Additionally vendor production and delivery issues and increased sales of products with a higher prime cost further affected our North American Automotive income.
In total the development and launch costs and vendor charges lowered our fourth quarter net income by approximately $1.7 million or $0.05 per share and lowered our gross margin by 1.3 percentage points.
In the full year these costs and charges lowered net income by $7.9 million or $0.21 per share and lowered our gross margins by 1.7 percentage points.
While vendor production and delivery issues for the Ford center console program impacted fiscal 2012 by $3.3 million we made significant progress throughout the year to vertically integrate Advanced Molding and Decoration or AMD.
The integration of the GM intricate paint process for automotive center consoles is successfully producing decorative components for approximately 40% of the Ford products we supply with the balance expected to produced by the second quarter of this fiscal year.
The team is now focused on the Ford paint line to be used for the General Motors center console components.
Once the integration is complete the charges associated with the vendor production and delivery issues should be eliminated and gross margins should improve.
Additionally our Ford center console program currently carries a higher prime cost due to the high purchase content which reduces the program's overall gross margins.
In fiscal 2012 our production of Ford center consoles doubled over fiscal 2011.
Therefore even though sales increased our margins decreased due to the increased sale of products with a high prime cost.
This should also be mitigated by the vertical integration.
We also incurred costs related to the design development and launch of the General Motors center console program for the next generation of truck platform.
In fiscal 2012 we incurred $4.6 million for the launch of automotive programs and anticipate approximately $4.5 million during this fiscal year in total launch costs for the General Motors program.
The majority of those costs occurring in the first 2 quarters of fiscal 2013.
These costs will ultimately absorb as the product launches and revenue is realized which will begin in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year.
While these costs are having an impact on our results now the General Motors center console program had a total anticipated revenue in excess of $0.5 billion over the life of the program.
Finally in our Power Products segment product development costs for Eetrex were approximately $0.6 million in the fourth quarter and $2.4 million in the full year.
We estimate similar development costs for fiscal 2013.
This investment will result in a suite of products applicable to a wide variety of applications for not only e-vans but also stationary power systems.
Specific to stationary storage we are developing a solution that will move battery backup from being -- not being just an insurance policy to an active battery solution that will reduce energy cost and improve data center performance.
Now turning to our review of our individual segments.
In the fourth quarter Automotive net sales increased to 12.7% and in the full year improved over 20% due to the higher sales from the Ford Center console programs as well as from our transmission lead frame and steering angle sensor products.
The acquisition of AMD contributed almost 46% of the North American Automotive sales increase in the fourth quarter and 40% in the full year.
It is important to note that AMD was breakeven at the gross margin level.
Automotive segment gross margin decreased in the fourth quarter and full year comparison impacted by the vendor issue the higher prime costs for the Ford Center console costs related to the launch of the GM program and AMD sales at breakeven.
Again our targeted gross margins for automotive are low- to mid-20s which we anticipate reaching once the General Motors center console program is fully launched in the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
Of note Methode was successful in negotiating a $1.2 million investment tax credit for fiscal 2012 from the Maltese government.
Interconnect sales decreased approximately 1% in the fourth quarter and 8% in the full-year comparisons attributable mainly to lower appliance sales in North America as well as the sale of our optical business in April of last year.
These lower sales were partially offset by increased sales of data and safety remote control products.
As we mentioned last quarter we anticipate reduced appliance sales will continue through the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
However as we also announced last quarter TouchSensor has been awarded the touch user interface for a larger client's OEM laundry platform.
The platform which launches in the second quarter of this fiscal year will be used on multiple major brands and represents $30 million to $40 million in annual revenue and full run rate fiscal 2014.
We are anticipating sales of approximately $15 million to $20 million in this fiscal year.
Interconnect gross margins fell on the fourth quarter and full year again due to lower sales.
Our Power Products segment saw approximately 11% lower sales in the fourth quarter due mainly to lower product demand from a key customer and the full-year sales improved just over 3%.
We are cautiously optimistic that first quarter sales will improve modestly over the fourth quarter.
Power Products gross margin decreased in both reporting periods mainly due to product mix and the Eetrex product development class.
Additional gross margins were impacted by the loss of a customer who qualified a less costly alternative which Power Products did not offer.
Without the new product development class gross margin would have been 18.5% in the fourth quarter and 21.2% in the full year.
Our target gross margins for this segment is in the high-20s which we anticipate achieving in fiscal 2014 as more products launch.
Now moving to see -- moving to what we see for the next several quarters.
Although we ended fiscal 2012 with strong sales performance in the fourth quarter we anticipate the first quarter of fiscal 2013 to bring lower sequential sales as the first quarter is typically our weakest sales quarter.
These lower sales in conjunction with the costs associated with numerous new product launches is expected to result in modestly above or below breakeven earnings per share this first quarter of fiscal year 2013.
However in the second and third quarters we anticipate the launch of TouchSensor's laundry platform along with the launch of multiple automotive products in Europe will boost second and third quarter sales and earnings.
Product launching in Europe includes busbars for Nissan and Renault electric vehicles steering wheel and hidden switches for Ford and ergonomics which is for Volkswagen Jaguar and Fiat.
In the fourth quarter the launch of the General Motors center console program combined with the second and third quarter launches of the laundry program and automotive programs in Europe it's anticipated to make that quarter our strongest in sales and earnings for fiscal 2013.
This anticipated progression throughout fiscal 2013 is in line with our original projections.
As such we are reiterating our full-year fiscal 2013 guidance of $495 million to $525 million in sales and earnings per share of $0.52 to $0.67.
We remain on track for record sales of $630 million in fiscal 2014 and over $700 million in fiscal 2015.
Now let me summarize some of the product development and new business awards and opportunities that occurred in the fourth quarter.
Our European Automotive operations booked $7.8 million during the fourth quarter in new business closing fiscal year 2012 with over $40 million in new annual business peaking at fiscal year 2015.
This business includes expansion of programs with Ford and Fiat as well as new awards for Renault's electric vehicles.
In Interconnect TouchSensor has made significant progress on cost reducing one of the key elements of their products specifically through its work with another Methode division TouchSensor has developed a new capability to digitally print circuits directly to connectorized substrates.
This approach while still at the concept stage could potentially replace primitive circuit boards TouchSensor normally uses to carry the touch technology and reduce or eliminate one of the most expensive elements of its billed materials.
Also in Interconnect electronic recently demonstrated its new ruggedized touch screen at a recent trade show which was well received by multiple customers.
Electronic also received prototype orders for radio remote controls for a welding system and a bridge crane as well as receiving its first production order for an explosive-improved controlled system for oil load to meth heads from a large energy-related company.
In our Power segment we have received new awards for a variety of products including heat sinks and busbars that will launch in fiscal 2014.
The group also had several wins for a new liquid-cooled chill plate designs which demonstrates the group's move in developing higher -- highly engineered solutions.
In summary with all this -- all the activity this year in launching new programs we also continued to focus on developing new technologies and processes which is a key element of our long-term strategy of providing our customers technology that enhances their products and our competitive position and ultimately results in improved margins for Methode.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will provide further details regarding our financials.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone.
Since we provided sufficiently detailed information about -- and affecting our consolidated segment results in both the press release and the 10-K I'll keep my comments very brief today.
Let me talk about cash was a little bit -- Don mentioned that that resulted in about a $0.20 EPS swing from last year to this year.
In fiscal '12 we've reported a tax provision of $3.2 million that's an effective tax rate of about 28% and that was primarily comprised of $3.1 million for taxes upon won profits primarily in China and the Philippines.
We also had  $2 million of withholding tax expense on dividends paid out or going to be paid from our subsidiary in China to our Singapore subsidiary.
Those 2 items were offset by $1.2 million benefit from negotiating the monetization of the tax credits related to our Malta operation Don mentioned that in his comments.
And also we have an additional $700 000 tax benefit due to the change in the valuation allowance for unused investment tax credits in Malta.
Last year in fiscal 2011 we recorded a tax benefit of $4.1 million.
That was primarily comprised of $2.1 million foreign taxes on our foreign profits.
We also had a $2.7 million benefit primarily related to the expiration of the statute of limitations on certain tax reserves and also a $3.5 million benefit related to the sale of our 75% ownership in Optokon.
Looking forward in -- to 2013 we would expect our effective tax rate to be in the low- to mid-teens.
This assumes no significant change in the valuation allowances or unused investment tax credits in Malta or for the net operating losses in the U.S.
Even though the tax rate in China increased to 25% from 12.5% effective January 1 of this calendar year we still see the fiscal 2013 consolidated effective tax rate to be reduced as we see increased profits in Europe and better sheltered by investment tax credits or lower tax rates.
And we continued to benefit from lower -- from the net operating loss carryforwards in the U.S.
Looking at cash flow.
We generated $24.8 million cash from operating activities this year compared to $17 million last year.
Looking at CapEx in fiscal 2012 we spent $32.1 million for capital expenditures and acquisitions.
Of this amount $6.4 million was for the acquisition of AMD.
Looking at fiscal 2013 we expect to spend somewhere between $25 million to $28 million for capital expenditures in the year and with most of that front-end loaded in the first half of the fiscal year.
For fiscal 2012 our depreciation and amortization expense was $16.2 million.
Looking at fiscal 2013 we expect depreciation and amortization to increase to between -- somewhere between $18 million and $20 million for the year.
Looking at debt.
At the end of fiscal '12 we had $48 million borrowed against our line of credit.
Currently most of our cash is located outside the U.S.
While we eventually expect to generate cash in the U.S.
primarily through future domestic operations it will be necessary to continue to borrow from our foreign affiliates or under the credit facility for the near term.
Management continues to work with its consultants to review efficient opportunities to repatriate cash back to the U.S.
In line with the review of those opportunities to repatriate cash we did look at our accounting assertion with respect to foreign earnings.
Methode considers all of its foreign earnings to be permanently reinvested in those foreign operations.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal '12 however we identified $38 million of undistributed foreign earnings for repatriation to the U.S.
We therefore recorded the deferred tax expense of $9 million.
This expense was offset or reduced in our net operating lost valuation allowance by the same $9 million.
Therefore there will be no income statement impact in the quarter.
The ability to bring this cash back to the U.S.
will help pay for capital and other expenditures anticipated to be spent to design develop engineer and launch the General Motors center console program and will reduce the amount of additional borrowing under our credit facility.
Don that concludes my remarks.
And Doug thank you.
Thank you very much.
Manny we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Let's start the discussion here on the launches and how they're going at Ford.
Are you at the point now from a Ford product perspective that most of those are behind you and that you're running at a pretty normal rate there today? That is correct.
Both U car and D car [ph] are launched.
So now we are -- we're at full launch and really the only issue that's left is to complete the vertical integration of the painting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the GM launches when do you start incurring cost on that? Do you -- you said that's going to be Q1 and Q2 predominantly? Or Q2 and Q3? Q -- well we've been incurring them for the last year but it will ramp here in Q1 and Q2.
And then ultimately we'll launch in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then how much of what you learned in the foreign launch can you leverage into the GM launch to sort of derisk that launch for you? I think the lessons learned on the Ford launch in which were much more complicated from a painting standpoint we'll pay -- I think as evidenced as we launch GM.
Potentially Methode has learned how to paint and laser etch on a volume basis of very intricate several pass painting.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of what your launch with GM is there any new technology or manufacturing process there that could be a potential concern? Or what'd you learned from Ford to get you over the hump on those? I would say -- I don't think there is anything new there that's higher volume but we're used to that.
I can't go into product too much.
But I would say there's nothing -- there's no new technology being launched on -- well let me stop there to work with -- GM has not announced all of the product configurations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a real near-term thing as you look at -- across some of your businesses that have relatively short cycle Automotive side you look out of and get more -- couple months or so.
In terms of changes in production schedules incoming orders what are you seeing there? Are things getting better or are they getting worse or stabilized? In the U.S.
I would say that things have stabilized.
In Europe that tends to vary month-to-month.
In Malta vertical has a number of smaller -- smaller relative to GM and Ford smaller product launches.
And so those tend to be a little more volatile and a little less predictable.
But in the aggregate Europe we're seeing is a little soft.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last item here.
As we look -- I don't know that you guys if you put this number together presented it this way at all.
But if we look at your new business launches your incremental revenue here in the next couple of years have you gone through it presented those at all in an annual basis of -- like as '13 '14 '15? Yes we have.
And we've outlined I think what the Ford launches have done and what GM I believe we discussed laundry.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm thinking more in -- that you put those together in aggregate but the new --six months ago or so that you put the numbers out there what you expect your revenues to be from new business to be.
And you've announced new things since then-- I'm just curious whether you've updated that.
We've not updated it since last November.
Research Division</strong> Okay that was more my question particularly.
Okay great.
I'll come back with a couple of other ones.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Jeremy Hellman with Divine Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First one for me just kind of thinking about business that you're pursuing for over the course of the next year that would come in a few years.
Hence do you have -- can you give us any sense of the GM scale either on auto or even on the appliance side? Do you have anything that you're working on that might layer in as we think in a few years out beyond what's already in the plan? No.
Mainly Auto business we're looking at model years '15 '16 and '17 now both on Auto and -- appliance is probably a little more near-term but we're probably looking for -- now so let's just say '15 in the plans as well.
Continuation of our business with Ford and GM moving center consoles into other OEMs we're pursuing that.
But really we can't give you the details on that but that's really our -- our strategy is to continue in Auto in the center console area and also in the transmission area which represents -- from our Ford sensing technology that should -- we're launching our first sensor in '15 that will reach full ramp in '16 and that could carry over -- that goes into '17 and '18 those tend to be 6- 7-year programs.
Lead frames we continue to pursue those.
T-76 transmission has been well received.
So we're seeing -- we've got really 2 plants for producing that now.
In the appliance area laundry is a new area for us so we're anticipating that that's well received by the consumer that will see the business there.
And then Malta continues to pursue not only its standard hidden and ergonomic switches but the power as well.
So we're -- our intent we've said we'll reach over $700 million and our intent is to keep that going.
We have the -- we certainly have the opportunities to do that and of course we need to book them.
But -- and obviously launching all these programs successfully goes a long way to giving confidence to our customers that we can take on more business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned the investments you're making in Eetrex.
Once you've gotten to where you got the technology where you want it what about the scale of business that you're going to be pursuing there? And are we talking $20 million give or take type of stuff? Or more a 9-figure type of potential business? I mean there's 2 areas that we're -- 2 main areas we're pursuing that I mentioned in my prepared remarks the e-vans that's developing slower than we anticipated but we also see that that is commercially viable.
And there you could have one program that's $10 million or $20 million depending on again how the customer's product is refit.
Stationary storage which is perhaps a more near-term market that's a -- as data centers and others transition away from lead acid batteries that's a -- that could be a $100 million opportunity market if that becomes a wholesale chain within the marketplace.
So we're not looking for Eetrex.
A better way of answering is we're not looking for Eetrex to be a $10 million $20 million subsidiary of Methode.
We're looking forward to reach -- Power in general to become a significant segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
And then one more for Doug.
Just Doug in terms of drawing down on your revolver and then the cash overseas what -- I'm trying to think about it in terms of the either positive or negative carry that you've kind of net-net have with the situation.
And then the $38 million of repatriation funds was that subsequent to year end? Or is that prior to year-end closing and already in the balance sheet? No that that will be prospective the $38 million or so.
And I think what -- we've talked about cash in the past Jeremy and the fact that we've -- in the last couple of years especially with our  restructuring and the downturn in the market here in the U.S.
that we saw a lot of our profits are building up offshore and also cash building up offshore.
With the launches that we had in North America for GM and Ford the TouchSensor opportunities that put a demand on domestic cash which we decided to borrow cash under the revolver there which -- it's a cheap debt.
And we've got to the point in the fourth quarter where we did identify just 2 discrete items that totaled at $38 million and we did change our -- the overall APB 23 assertion on those earnings.
So what that does that allows us to bring the cash back in probably sometime in fiscal '13.
We use that cash then in the U.S.
and that will again limit the amount of additional borrower we may need to do under the revolver.
Until we get to the point where we do launch these programs and eventually we are going to be profitable and cash flow positive in the U.S.
So it's more of a timing thing.
And I think we'll look at this as a positive and to be able -- the ability to bring back that $38 million is I think a very -- just very helpful in the big picture to repatriate some of that cash back to the U.S.
But leave the rest of it out there for reinvestment.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And your revolver is LIBOR plus 1.5 right? At the -- I know it's right here remember? [indiscernible] Currently at the current rate? Yes it is 1.5 of the current...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one the whole -- on that thread.
The cash that you do have overseas what currency is that denominated in? And where is it held right now? Sure.
Again there's a -- most of it is either going to be in euros or in Asia.
We hold that in renminbi right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there -- have you gone through any kind of an analysis on whether you would need a -- and what the cost would be of moving that from euros to Swiss francs or a non-euro currency? Yes.
We're looking at -- we look at that all the time and we try to use the fact that we do have foreign subsidiaries in Europe some are in U.S.
currency denominated and some are euros denominated.
So we try to use that to -- as a natural hedge to -- a hedge to the balance sheet.
But we do watch that and we do -- we are looking at the renminbi in particular and that may be a case where the use of a forward contract or some derivative of some sort might make some sense for us.
Research Division</strong> And with the euros are they held at [Audio Gap] one depository institution? No.
[indiscernible] described.
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Smith [ph] with [indiscernible] Associates.
This question is for Doug.
Where do you see your SG&amp;A expenses moving across the next 2 years like 2013 2014? The SG&amp;A as a percentage? Yes.
The next few years probably should be modestly improving.
As we grow the top line they should not significantly have to add to the SG&amp;A.
Okay.
And also it seems like your gross margins are looking to improve.
And where do you see those? Like do you have a number for that? Or...
Well we just talked in general about the improvement we're -- we will get from the vertical integration so once we get this AMD acquisition vertically integrated.
And we probably expect to get -- I think we've said we're going to get 4% to 5% just under vertical integration alone.
In the Automotive area.
In the Automotive yes.
And then beyond that we'll get additional gross margin improvement as we start leveraging the overhead on the higher sales.
Our next question comes from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just a couple of other items here.
Don as you've gone through the launches now there's more people other automakers that have seen what you've done there.
I'm sure people are aware of what you may be doing with General Motors.
What's the activity been with other automakers in terms of extending this product offering into other parts of the industry? I would say risk.
The ability to successfully launch fairly complicated programs have been -- other OEMs have taken note around the world.
So I think we've successfully -- prepared successfully and moved in to a new area the vehicle where there's a significant room for growth with others and to add technology because that's an area -- if you look at if you go back 10 years ago where the wheel is kind of as the place to be and then the percent has gotten a little more or much more competitive the center console is really the next avenue where there's all sorts of technology that can brought to bear and that's really our strategy.
To work with the OEMs bring them technology that they might have that's one example of that.
We're working in biometrics on different screens for the center console.
So now I think Methode has successfully made that transition and that's again that's definitely been noted.
Research Division</strong> So is there any sense of timing you might have of whether you could talk about some new contracts or new programs that you're working on? No I -- you know Automotive -- it's up until a point we get an award things are usually pretty -- under MDA it's fairly confidential.
So it'd be very difficult for me to comment on that.
Research Division</strong> But during this current fiscal year you would expect to be able to announce something? I -- David I'm not going to go there.
I just...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then any characterization in terms of the customers you're looking at North American European Asian? Or any characterization there you can do at all? Asia is clearly a focus for us.
There's as much opportunity there as we've seen in the U.S.
With Detroit so that's certainly a focus.
Europe a bit less that is not -- not that there's no programs to be had but we have a definite focus on Asia.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could have a couple of number questions.
Your royalty number I did my math right? It looks like it's about $5 million for the year.
Is that -- any sense now on where that number can run next year and then the following years after that on a trend basis? I think it's been running relatively stable.
So I wouldn't expect that to change much.
And that just really depends on the amount of business that we're doing primarily out of Europe.
Because that's -- those are the design engineering piece that we get paid upfront for.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on tax as you had mentioned you expect it to be lower.
Can you give us some framework there of -- any particular details in terms of where you think that's going be? And then quarterly I suspect you're going to continue to be pretty volatile? Yes.
I think I've mentioned looking at next year we expect the tax rate the effective tax rate to be low- to mid-teens.
And then that assumes David that we don't have any changes in the valuation allowances for either our net operating loss in the U.S.
that we need to track and also for the investment tax credits that we have in Malta.
So -- and those are -- those can change based on future projections.
And so it's hard to say sitting here today -- if I can tell you if it was going to change today then I should have hooked it in the fourth quarter.
So I guess the answer is we don't know that there's going to be any change on those.
Research Division</strong> And then any addition of repatriation of cash other than what you've already talked about? No.
Nothing else anticipated at this time.
These were 2 discrete items that actually we look at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the capital spending a pretty significant number here again.
How much of that is going for equipment as opposed to -- I don't think you have any physical expansions going on do you? No no.
It's -- yes.
The vast majority is equipment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly great clarity in terms of where you think the numbers are going to be how they're going to flow quarterly.
If you look at where -- within that characterizations where the fourth quarter earnings would be it would imply that you're going to exit your fiscal year on a run rate right around $1 a share or so.
I mean is that the right characterization of that? The words no comment come to mind.
Research Division</strong> Yes they do.
But...
David I do want to add something.
While we are very excited about what the center console programs have brought to Methode I would be remiss if I didn't point out that also the automakers have noted what we have done in the transmissions with our lead frames.
And as transmissions become at 6 speed 8 speed and beyond our process technology I think you've seen them on the T-76 line continues to generate interest and opportunities not just from the lead frame but also from our torque sensing technology where we're about to launch in '15 the first Magneto-elastic product.
So that's just -- Methode's kind of entered 2 areas over the -- it's taken us 3 to 4 years or maybe 5 years to get into those areas.
But that's really 2 very growing areas of the Auto that Methode is well positioned in.
So I would be remiss if I didn't mention transmissions.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's interesting I mean those are all things -- and you're right it was about 4 or 5 years ago when we talked about this embryonic technologies and bring them to market.
And a lot of of that has happened there today.
Have you put any more irons in the fire that create additional embryonic technologies like that that 5 years from now we're going to be talking about? I mean you could look at Eetrex and power electronics and as -- and then you have to really decide where does the EV market go.
We're certainly making a definite investment in that.
And I mean I think we've seen just the tip of the iceberg on torque sensing.
So that continues to expand.
Those would be the 2 areas I would point to.
I'm sure after I get off the call somebody is going to remind me that I forgot a technology or 2.
Biometrics in the vehicle we believe that's coming.
More sophisticated touchscreens an area that we're working on.
So I think those will be the key areas that come to mind.
Our next question's from the line of Gregory Macosko with Lord Abbett.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Just with regard to the discussion about the higher prime cost which affects the gross margin percent is that just generally a trend that we should expect that kind of across a lot of these programs that are being launched? Is that a general expectation? Or is that -- as I understand that'll fall back as you integrate some of the operations but talk about that a little bit if you would.
Sure.
As the -- to go back in time when we booked the initial Ford Center console program which if memory serves me right is in the '08 timeframe Automotive was a free fall.
And as was the economy for the most part.
We elected that time not to vertically integrate which is very unusual for Methode because it's a key process.
But as you've seen we've had to expend the significant moneys to in house that process.
So back then financially it didn't make sense.
And when we booked the additional program with Ford at that point is when we started to look at vertically integrating.
Because of the -- one of our drivers and how we look at our business is what is the prime cost.
How do you reduce one your exposure to outside suppliers which in automotive as we've seen one problem can cost you millions of dollars.
So in general Methode's belief is where we can and where it makes economic sense  we vertically integrate to ensure that we don't run into those type of issues.
Remember our first foray into a significant center console program.
And again I know hindsight's 20/20 maybe we should have integrated that at the time.
But now as we move forward we're launching GM.
There's certainly outside suppliers.
There's a touchscreen supplier but as a direct and sub from Ford.
So that's a -- we have a little bit of cover there.
But prime as we move forward should fall in line to what we've seen in the past because of the amount of energy and money that have been spent.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> So the point is there's -- as we look at the programs you currently have and are launching -- that you have visibility on there will be no additional in-sourcing going forward? Or once these are done I mean.
Well it's -- in terms of -- we've always looked at that.
We are -- if I look at General Motors I suppose we can add more [indiscernible] torque sensing capabilities some of that's still going to be done on the outside.
We would do that if that makes financial sense.
There's always opportunities but in terms of major opportunities I would say no.
The painting is a significant portion of the bill materials for those parts.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> With regard to the new programs and new products that you're developing clearly the center console and to some extent the transmission are areas that you have experience with -- you're kind of on a ramp in terms of gain in programs because of the experience you've had with the historic ones.
But are you comfortable that when you talk about biometrics heat sinks busbars stationary storage e-van e-truck.
Is this in terms of your R&amp;D and research budgets just general capabilities on the research side? Are you comfortable with that number of programs across all 3 of your segments? I would say that we are.
We don't talk about the number of technologies or processes that we don't fund every year.
We've opened to a fairly levered process.
Generally when we say R&amp;D I think we do the D than R I mean we do the development.
We take a known technology and apply it to our product.
So in paint and laser etch we didn't lead the way on that that was a proven process that we assimilated in-house and we tend to ruggedize these processes and technology for the automotive market.
TouchSensor is a good example that was a known technology when we purchased TouchSensor from SCHOTT Glass but we needed to ruggedize that to make it applicable on the vehicle.
So when we look at -- and whether it be a busbar -- and now we are launching busbars on EV vehicles in Europe.
And why are we -- why didn't we invest in that in the first place? Because we had an on-trade -- or have to market in Auto from a Power standpoint.
So we always look at what synergies do we have and does that make sense to us? And I often say we're not going to go too far afield from what our base businesses are which we've said is Interconnect Auto and Power.
And they do overlap.
So I would say we're definitely comfortable with the investments we're making.
And we're not afraid to drop back and say "Okay.
This one didn't work out." [Operator Instructions] Sir we have no further questions in queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Manny thank you very much.
We will thank everyone for listening today and for their questions and wish everyone a safe July 4th holiday.
Good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Methode Electronics fiscal 2011 first quarter earnings presentation.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management’s expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in Methode’s expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve the number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following dependence on a small number of large customers including two large automotive customers dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries seasonal and cyclical nature of some of our businesses ability to compete effectively customary risks related to conducting global operations ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects ability to protect our intellectual property dependence on the availability and price of raw materials ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions currency fluctuations unfavorable tax loss the future trading price of our stock and the risks of owning real property.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Mr.
Duda you may begin.
Thank you Edward and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2011 first quarter financial results conference call.
I’m joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer and Ron Tsoumas Methode’s Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments today and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
This morning we released our first quarter financial results for fiscal 2011.
I’m pleased to report that net sales and our earnings in the first quarter improved year-over-year from the first quarter of last year.
In fiscal 2009 and 2010 we’ve restructured our operations which lowered our breakeven point and refocused all our business segments on solution selling.
Thus far in the fiscal 2011 we are seeing evidence of the business structure we put in place is starting to show positive results.
Total sales in the first quarter were up over 9% from the first quarter of last year despite the loss of the Delphi business which represented $7.5 million in sales in the first quarter of last year.
Additionally total sales were up 3% sequentially versus the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.
The momentum from the fourth quarter continued into the first quarter with market demand particularly in our European and Asian Automotive Businesses at the high end of our expectations.
Earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 were $0.11 per share compared to breakeven for the same period of last year as a result of various factors including the absence of restructuring expenses and other items in the current period which Doug will expand upon in his discussion.
Consolidated gross margins were down both year-over-year and sequentially for a few reasons versus I mentioned earlier there was an absence of sales to Delphi which was a higher margin business volume for us.
Secondly we had higher design in overhead costs in the company’s U.S.
based Automotive and Powered product’s businesses which are necessary to book and launch new programs.
Although we believe we have successfully repositioned our North American businesses for a sustained growth and profitability.
We may continue to incur similar and normally a higher cost associated with these efforts until additional programs launch and offset these expenses.
And third decreased other income in the current period compared to last year relating to lower engineering design fees received in our European Automotive business.
Automotive segment sales were down 3.7% year-over-year due mainly to the absence of Delphi revenues which totaled $7.5 million in the first quarter of last year.
If we take the Delphi sales out of last year’s first quarter automotive sales actually improved over $5 million.
Sequentially automotive sales were up more than 3% over the fourth quarter of last year again with our European and Asian operations demonstrating particular strength.
As we have said in previous conference calls we expect the MyFord Touch Center Console Program will ramp in the third quarter of this year and total about $12 million for the fiscal year.
We also expect the least time in business to continue to do well.
Although our European Automotive segments performed well in the first quarter we remain cautious about this market.
Overall we still expect automotive segment sales to be down for the year mostly due to loss of sales from Delphi.
Automotive gross margins were down to the loss of – due to the loss of higher margin sales from Delphi but also from our continued investment in our automotive business.
Again as we launched more programs margins would improve.
For competitor purposes we still see about a month and half of Delphi in the second quarter or we will see about a month and half.
The Interconnect sales increased 40% year-over-year but were down slightly from the fourth quarter of last year.
In the first quarter the segment had strong sales in interface and data solutions reflecting the improving macroeconomic conditions worldwide.
However the Interconnect sales maybe flat and slightly down sequentially in the second quarter as we are seeing some softening in sales particularly to Whirlpool and Cisco.
The Interconnect margins in the first quarter run empowered our target margins for this business.
Power Product sales were up about 3% year-over-year and over 11% sequentially.
The segments have higher demand for Power Products in Asia flat lower demand in the North America.
The Power segment also had higher telecom business in the first quarter which is typically lower margin business and less military and aerospace revenues which is typically higher margin.
The majority of Power business awarded in the last six to 12 months and launching in fiscal 2012 is in military and aerospace as such we expect these margins to improve overtime.
On to new business wins in the first quarter we’re up over $29 million in new annual revenue.
First I’m very excited to announce that our MDI Group was awarded a contract to provide a top-tier Automotive OEM with a custom sensor for the measurement of clutch plate position in the new fuel-efficient dual clutch six-speed transmissions.
Initially the award represents approximately $6 million in average annual revenue over five years and is likely to gain additional volume.
Based on Methode’s patented magneto-elastic technology MDI developed this new sensor which measures linear position with resolution as nearly 10 times that of current commercially viable technology.
The sensor has been designed to withstand a harsh environment of transmission and operates at temperatures in excess of a 180 degree Celsius.
We will begin producing these sensors for multiple platforms in the second half of fiscal 2014.
This award represents the first major deployment of this technology in the automobile and as a combination of over five year’s development efforts.
We congratulate the MDI team on this very significant award.
We were also awarded additional lead frame business that will begin production in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and represents more than $20 million in average annual revenue for five years.
As a reminder the lead frame is an integrative power and signal distribution backbone for our transmission controller.
Due to the highly complex insert mode of assembly that reduces the number of electrical connections that will be required with the traditional design.
This improves system reliability and reduces cost.
This lead frame is currently being produced for vehicles in the Asian market and with this new award we’ll expand production in North American manufactured vehicles.
This additional award will bring our lead frame business to $40 million in average annual revenue at full launch which we expect will be in fiscal 2012.
Lastly we’re awarded an integrated center console program with our major Asian Automotive OEM utilizing our TouchSensor technology.
This business represents up up $2 million annual revenues and will begin production in the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
This award for market evaluation purposes could result in the expansion of TouchSensor technology across multiple platforms for this major OEM.
As you can see our investments in new technology and product development are beginning to generate design wins and incremental sales.
In summary the first quarter gives us a good start to fiscal 2011; however while much has been accomplished there is still work to do and we remain clearly focused on improving our results.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Doug who’ll provide further details regarding our financial results.
Doug? Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
Don mentioned earlier that we reported $0.11 of EPS for the quarter compared to breakeven last year that was $4.1 million net income.
Just to give you a little color on that primarily this is due to the fact that we – last year’s number included $3.6 million of restructuring charges.
This year we had none.
This quarter we did benefit from a gain on – of $1.2 million on life insurance policies related to a deferred compensation plan.
We also saw a slight benefit in selling and administrative on a consolidated basis.
Offsetting these items we had lower design fees in our European operations.
And we saw consolidated higher tax expense of about $300 000.
So those are the – those are the big items that make up the $4.1 million of net income in the quarter.
I’d like to give you a little color now on the segments to obviously those items I just went over are the – are the large items but there are a lot of ins and outs pluses and minuses so.
In Automotive we had first quarter sales of $49.3 million that’s down about 4% compared to $51.2 million last year.
Obviously as Don mentioned last year we had $7.5 million of Delphi business and partially offsetting this Delphi business we saw a stronger sales in Europe and Asia.
Additionally currency translation decreased foreign sales by $1.7 million in the quarter.
Looking at gross margins for Automotive that was at $10.1 million compared to $11.5 million last year as a percentage of sales gross margins decreased to 20.5% this quarter compared to 22.5 last year.
Gross margins were negatively impacted by the loss of the Delphi business lower design fees and increased cost related to new product development.
Pre-tax income in the Automotive segment was $2.8 million in the quarter which is the same as we have last year.
Last year’s results included a $1.5 million of Delphi related – or this year’s quarter end included a $1.5 million.
Last year’s quarter we had about $400 000 related to the Delphi litigation.
Last year’s results also included restructuring charges of $2.6 million in the Automotive segment.
Looking at sequential quarters Q1 over Q4 while automotive cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales decreased to 79.5% from 81.1%.
Selling and administrative expense increased to 14.6% compared to 9.9% our last quarter fourth quarter.
This is caused by a reallocation of resources in fiscal 2011 to the Automotive segment.
If you look at consolidated selling and administrative expense you’ll see that we are down slightly but we again – reallocation from resources that formally or and either the unallocated corporate or the Interconnect just to align those assets to help grow Automotive going forward.
Additionally in the fourth quarter selling and administrative expense benefit is from some accrual adjustments.
And again as I mentioned as Don mentioned the higher selling and administrative is needed to support the awards that John – Don just discussed in his comments.
In the Interconnect segment we had sales of $34.6 million in the first quarter.
This is up over 40% from $24.7 million last year.
The sales increase is primarily from our interface solutions and data solutions groups.
There was no currency translation effect on the Interconnect segment sales in the quarter.
Gross margins for the Interconnect segment were $9.2 million compared to $6.2 million last year.
As a percentage of sales this is an improvement to 26.6% compared to 25.1% last year.
The increase in gross margin as a percentage of sales is primarily due to the higher sales level and a favorable change in the mix to higher margin product.
Pre-tax income in the Interconnect segment was $3.7 million in the current quarter compared to $200 000 last year.
This again is due to the increase in sales and gross profit and also that we had no restructuring charges this year compared to $800 000 last year.
Sequentially our Q1 gross margin was 26.6% compared to fourth quarter of 35.4%.
This was due to the inventory reserve – reversals in the fourth quarter additionally in the first quarter we saw changes in the mix at our TouchSensor business to slightly lower gross margin business.
Power Product segment sales were just about flat with $11.5 million this year compared to $11.2 million last year.
We did see an increase in demand for bus bar products in Asia for telecommunication products.
This was partially offset by a decrease in demand in North America which is predominantly industrial and military aerospace.
Gross margins in the Power Products segment were $2.3 million in the current quarter that’s the same as last year’s quarter.
As a percentage of sales our gross margins decreased to 20% compared to 20.5% last year.
This percentage decrease is due to the reduced business in North America.
Pre-tax income in the Power Products segment was $0.5 million in the quarter compared to $600 000 last year.
This is primarily due to higher selling and professional fees offset by no restructuring charge this quarter compared to $200 000 last year.
Sequentially Q1 over Q4 gross margin decreased to 28% compared to 33% in the fourth quarter.
As with the Interconnect the fourth quarter benefited from some accrual adjustments but our first quarter saw change in sales mix to more Telecom business and less industrial military aerospace.
And as Don mentioned we would expect that would return to a more normal mix in the future.
The Other segment had first quarter sales of $2.8 million up slightly from $2.7 million last year.
Primarily the sales increased at our MDI business while sales at our test labs were down slightly.
Our gross margins were $100 000 in the quarter compared to $200 000 last year increase is primarily due to prototype builds in our – in the MDI business that accounted for the drop in the margin and pre-tax income in the Other segment was a loss of 600 000 in both quarters.
And again the increase in the prototype expense was offset by a decrease in selling and administrative.
Before I turn it back to Don I’d like to comment on the $7.4 million cash premium in the quarter specifically the change in operating assets and liabilities of $10.5 million which you see on the cash flow statement.
AR [ph] itself was use of cash $6.9 million.
This was due to the timing of sales.
We didn’t have a strong July which is unusual for us.
We had billing for preproduction tooling that went out.
And additionally we just had some slower collections from some specific customers which are not credit risk but did change the timing of the receivable.
We also had bonus payments in the quarter that was $2.7 million.
Last year we changed from a practice of paying more bonuses on a quarterly basis to a fourth quarter or full-year bonus payment so that resulted in a slightly higher bonus payout in the first quarter of this year.
Foreign and state tax payments were $1.9 million in the quarter primarily for China and some other foreign and state entities and we also had a balance of – our inventory increased about a $1 million but this was offset by a change in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Don that concludes my remarks.
Thanks Doug.
Edward we’re ready to take questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today comes from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
Can you hear me? Yeah.
Okay.
And as we have Don I think you said that the new business you had $20.9 million annually.
Did I hear that correctly? That’s correct.
Do you happen to have I mean we can go through other costs but do you happen to have what are cumulative numbers of that since you guys have started and talking about that kind of that number.
Get us those through cumulative net off? I’m not sure I understand the question cumulative of...
Yeah.
You know previous calls you’ve talked about your new business somewhere as in the annual revenue do you have that cumulated across to all those announcements that you’ve made or what the annual incremental revenue as from the new business? We will have that yes.
Yeah.
We don’t have it with us but...
Yeah.
Okay.
We don’t track that.
Yeah.
It’s okay.
I was just wondering if you had it handy and then we can go back to other calls and to have that number.
And then from what I understand you have quite something about $3 or $4 million with Delphi revenue that was in last year’s numbers yet.
Is that’s correct? $7.5 – $7.5 million was in the last year’s Q1? Going forward in Q2 there is 3 or 4 million less than last year’s comps in Q2? Yeah.
That about yeah above that level.
And then on the Ford legacy business running off which I mean it and we clearly have that mix model.
But I think the magnitude of that much larger than what we’ve thought.
Is there some context you can give us of what kind of an impact that’s we had on the numbers? In first quarter of 2010 there were some Ford in there but we’ll have to get you that number and I don’t know that your model is of there I just think that you’re anticipating a higher revenue rate from Ford than we are on current business.
But if we take a look at and I just if we exclude Delphi in that China transfer business you’re saying your North American volumes are down 50% year-over-year right? That’s right.
That’s probably correct.
The production in North America was up 70% and it seems to me and we don’t have MyFord Touch really rolling to that number in Q1....
Right.
And so trying to reconcile there is such a big difference between your declined in revenue versus a pretty significant increase in production? And the variable that seems it standout process of run out from the Ford Legacy business and that’s we’re missing something? We can study that.
But I know we shift 100% on time everything our customer want us in the first quarter.
And those are – that’s Ford and others so and the quarter came in pretty much so we anticipated it was.
After thinking a K last year we said that – we thought that the first quarter would be but first of all the first quarter would not merely the fourth quarter and we thought that automotive revenues would be down.
So from our projections were pretty much where we not where we are going to be and little disappointed in power margin but I understand there is more mix.
So I’m – we’ll go back and study the Ford transition but I’m still struggling with whether disconnect is there between our models.
Well I’m not great in talking about our model.
You’re saying that your revenue tax Delphi in China transfer is down 60% in North America and I’m saying North American production was up 70%.
So you’ve pretty significantly underperformed in the North American automotive markets and I’m just trying to reconcile that? We’re going to have to try to model that result I’m not sure I agree with you there.
So last year we built 1.7 million vehicles in North America this year we built almost 3 million.
No.
I’m not going to argue with you on that.
What I’m saying is that the business performed what we expected it to perform based on the business booked and our own internal forecasting.
I understand that’s – names on the something else.
How much of the vehicle that have MyFord Touch in it? What portion of what percentage of those you think you’re going to have content.
As I saw what are the comments out of Ford is that the Explorer which is launching now.
That they expect that 80% of Explorer’s with MyFord Touch in it? And I don’t know that you’re expecting to have 80% of the Explorer is having your touch points in it? No.
We are not.
Definitely I can I know we’ve given you the vehicles in the past but separately we can give you that again the only number I have is what we’ve said in the prepared comments is 12 million for this fiscal.
Right.
We can backtrack and give you the specific platforms.
Right.
We – the investors can’t assume that just because MyFord is in the vehicle that you have said you have content on that vehicle correct? Okay.
MyFord Touch is a topology or network on the vehicle.
Some of them employ TouchSensor some of them employ traditional switches.
So My – the fact that MyFord Touch is on a vehicle does not automatically equate that any type of touch product is on the vehicle.
Okay.
And I just wanted to verify that because I think there is – but thank you.
That’s all I have.
Thanks.
Okay.
And that’s why we stressed and on previous calls that it is around $12 million and at least in this fiscal year $40 million in total.
Yeah.
And I just sense towards I’ll drive out that number.
I just wanted to make sure people are aware you are not on 80% of the exports? Right right.
Thank you.
That is all I have.
Thanks All right.
Thank you David.
I will get you the other information.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Hellman with Divine Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Jeremy.
So what I want to do and you guys have kind of touched it on little bit with David’s question there.
Because I fold out your commentary from last quarter earlier and you see I haven’t in my notes that you’ve said Q1 will be down sequentially due to seasonality the July model changeover auto and also just on a global economic conditions.
So you basically came in better than you would advertise which from where we stand was good.
So wondering was it mainly just Europe and Asia in auto that led you to come up with the results better than you had thought or was there something else? No.
That’s right.
Europe was up a little higher than we expected.
We and depending how you view the automotive market in Europe we were expecting it to start to trend down a bit.
I think we’re still cautious going forward that remained actually fairly robust through the summer through the July third month of our quarter.
But then Asian sales were particularly in lead frame business was up and that’s mainly because of the transmission that goes into as a more the six-speed transmission more fuel-efficient being rolled out across more platforms.
So we’ve benefited from that.
I guess my caution going forward is we still anticipate a bit of a slowdown and we’re still indicating that we think our total auto business will be down for the year mainly because of Delphi.
Right.
If the vehicle builds remain a little bit higher then we’ll track with that.
As I said to David we shift to 100% of everything as customers want it.
So as from auto we’re clearly at the mercy of the market.
We can’t do anything tomorrow that’s going to affect auto revenues other than the ship product is required.
Right.
So if I’m kind of looking in terms of that the remaining three quarters of the year segment-by-segment kind of the seasonality pattern is my and if it’s okay for you guys I just kind of run down how I see things and if there is an adverse and that just let me know I mean it sounds like auto should be flat plus or minus with some legal room back half of the years when you see the $12 million from MyFord Touch start coming in Q3 Q4 is that a fair enough way of looking at things? Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean the only other comment I would make is I mean we keep talking about Delphi what I found particularly exciting about the first quarter here is that we have successfully replaced that revenue and under the greater profits and that’s not insignificant in the whole scheme of things.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Then just moving down to Interconnect you made some comments there you said we flatted maybe some down-ish variance there I still trying to keep up with you guys as you went through your comments.
Power products I don’t think you made a comment in terms of directionality there.
Did I miss that or did you not comment on that? Tom I don’t think we commented on it.
That it’s likely to be flat quarter-over-quarter.
We have less visibility in that business if we get a Millard order business we’re shipping in the quarter that will certainly affect the numbers and we only when have made there as we had more Telecom business at lower margin than Millard were at higher margin.
So less visibility there probably flat to plus or minus a little bit sequentially.
Most of the business we have booked in the last six 12 months we’ll launch in – in the next fiscal year throughout the year.
And that’s mainly Millard so those margins should improve.
Okay.
In fiscal ‘12 okay.
And so if I look again speaking a margin then auto margins back half of the year given what you know currently we’ll seem to have an upward bias as with power products correct? I would on auto yes as we...
You know where I’m looking at is that you got pre-production cost here and production is going to start coming in so you...
Yeah yeah yeah and you’re right.
As we get in the full launch on MyFord Touch that – that’s correct.
Okay.
And then power that really is just a mix I don’t think it’s pretty hard to predict.
Okay.
And then one last thing on Power and then I’ll jump back out is how significant if at all are your sales to the Renewable Energy markets and particular wind or solar? Quarter-to-quarter they can’t be a factor.
There was not a lot of sales in the first quarter.
I will say we are tracking a number of opportunities in that area.
It’s primary focus for us and then the opportunities depending on how you view the market can be sizable.
But in the next couple of months I don’t that’s not going to influence results that much it can over a period of the next 12 to 18 months have an effect I mean that’s a clearly a focus for us.
Right.
I think it’s one of the reasons.
I’m sorry I interrupt you but one of the reasons we invested in Eetrex to give us access to additional technology.
Right.
Well maybe more broad question and I was kind of looking at this as a multi-year question is your strategy or target customer in that space going to be the Chinese OEMs the Europeans or North American manufacturers? I don’t...
Maybe above.
… just look knowing what opportunity we’re pursuing we would definitely be the European and the U.S.
OEMs and then also due to greater stationary market for that type of products.
The large OEs are going to do a quite a bit on their own and we have the opportunity to sell them subsystems.
But when you look at the stationary markets just data centers and wind power and so on.
There is also a fair amount of business there to be had.
And then probably a slightly higher margins than you might see from OEs.
Okay.
One last one from me sorry.
MDI and I think that you know correct you said that production starts second half of 2014? Yes.
That’s correct.
Okay.
And will that – at that point is obviously thinking a few is down the road.
Are you going to take that other segment and it’s just I know it’s more important but it’s actually put a better name on it in other at that point? Yeah.
Right.
At some point we have to look at where the MDI technology is being deployed if it’s in Auto we’ll roll it up into Auto at some point but....
Jeremy a good example is the lead frame that we’ve talked about.
That’s started in the Interconnect segment but the application is on a transmission.
So now that is reported by...
Right.
Through automotive.
So again that’s that’s the customer we are selling since....
And TouchSensor we want to implement it appliances so on it’s an Interconnect and if it’s in Auto as the case in MyFord Touch since reported in Auto.
All right.
More than likely we – other would become the stage two Auto it will come in into the three Auto business.
Right.
That’s what I was asking.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
To better name than other.
Yeah.
I know and just wanted to say nice quarter guys.
It’s stock guys have responded too well but hopefully the Street will get handle on thing.
Yeah.
We appreciate that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Macosko with Lord Abbett.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Thank you.
Just follow up on the Ford – MyFord Touch in the – in MyFord penetration.
I believe in the last call you talked about 80% of all Ford’s by 24.15 [ph] should have that program involved.
Did I give that right last quarter is that the idea? Ford set that.
Okay.
Ford set that.
Got you.
Okay.
That’s fine and I understand.
And we are just as if I look at further Methode is on the center console of MyFord Touch.
All right.
But MyFord Touch also includes the steering wheel switches as well as the some of the instrumentation that can be modified.
So there’s more to MyFord Touch than what Methode is providing.
It’s quite a bit more actually.
Right.
And just a follow-up on David’s question.
Does that mean that the idea of sensors versus switches is the idea that by 2014 or 2015 there will be – it will all be sensor as opposed to switch or is connect I mean as far as you understand? That is a design issue and probably a consumer issue.
There certainly will be a mix I think by our sight in foreseeable future it’s still going to be predominantly what I’ll call conventional switches and a migration of the TouchSensors will be – I know really as the consumer embraces it the early returns on TouchSensor on the Ford vehicles were very very good.
But the deals we are just launching now so let’s see what consumer how they view that as the vehicle get in the fields.
So as people see what they are doing et cetera the idea the whole I guess would be that we would see more sensors on in the MyFord Touch as opposed to switch.
Right.
And field effect switches on the vehicle but in the certain areas that they are very appropriate for overhead console is a good area for truck releases is a keyless entry they’re much more robust take up less space so there are some very logical places for them up to go whether they go onto – we replaced conventional wheel switches or semi-console switches.
I think that that remains to be seen but there is – it’s early it will be a force within the vehicle.
So that overtime there will be more applications for that TouchSensor to be applied to as the vehicles stage or get more sophisticated or they get more comfortable with it? All right.
And I think it’s going to be designer preference.
Well an Aston Martin have a TouchSensor on it so it’s the old argument over analog gauges versus digital gauges when the product came out with digital or yeah digital gauges allow the long time prevent them or upset.
So and one of my first one in switch or hey this is hi-tech.
I want a slighter volume control that’s on of course the MyFord Touch I think that really that might depend on age.
Okay.
And then with regard to Ford the 12 million you expect in the second half of this fiscal year.
Is the idea given similar volume that we would – it’s a 24 million run rate is that fair to say or is there some seasonality in that? Well there is always seasonality to Auto although as although July was particularly a more robust this year than in the past.
But I think we’ve said at full launch it’s about 40 million but on an annual basis.
Okay.
And I think if you go back in some of our calls we usually say that’s the summer month of July since that quarter tends to be a little bit less in the third quarter which includes Christmas tends to be a little bit less for Auto.
And then we – the 40 million comes from us looking at J.D.
Power’s data and then applying some of our own logic to it.
So if we don’t strictly rely on that data.
Yeah.
There is some platform lashes there about a year from now.
It’s right.
Right.
But again that that is four just four.
Correct.
Okay.
All right just want to be sure on that but still I understand.
And then with regard to the North American Auto growth if we back out and just leave Delphi out of it on a year-over-year basis I thought you said you talked about that the Auto growth ex-Delphi… Yes.
What was that? If you...
Back out Delphi...
Back out Delphi...
Both years both quarters last year and this quarter.
And our model actually grew let me give you the exact number here I believe it’s – I think it was 5 million.
5 million on...
That’s right.
On what base? On last year’s quarter first quarter to this year’s first quarter.
Yeah but adjusted last year’s first quarter? Yeah so.
Yes so we had 51.2 in back out 7.5 approx from that growth.
Okay.
And that’s for the – that’s worldwide.
That’s yeah.
That’s total automotive.
Right.
It is for yeah.
Yes.
That’s total automotive okay.
And in comparison just a little difficult because last year we did a – when we launched the lead frame we launched in the U.S.
as the customer's request and then transferred it to China.
So you got some domestic number in this too and that will be a hard comparison to do because the business ramped it also ramp between now and then.
Okay.
In the Power business you mentioned that clearly mix was up and then you had an impact on the profit margins.
But are you suggesting that that business mix will return to something we’d seen like last year was this onetime-ish whether Telecom was a bigger portion in Military back off? Or is that something you expect to return to some normal run rate? That’s a good question.
I think it’s much harder to predict that business.
Right.
We know there’s much visibility into – to the customers and the (inaudible) I think – they are pretty big hitters so here and they’re not there is the mercy of what as many instances as the government is doing.
Okay.
Let me answer the question this way.
Telecom is not our focus.
We know that that’s it’s a little central product to produce in certain instances.
It tends to be more competition.
There is Chinese competition in that.
And we’ve changed our focus probably 18 months ago to do more collateral and as Doug said industrial.
Right.
So the business that has been booked.
The majority of that is the higher margin industrial (inaudible) that’s generally from the time we do a prototype to the time we actually are seeing revenues it’s about an 18-month cycle.
I would say we’re six months in to that.
So I don’t if we get an order in next quarter if it earlier to somebody or that ships that for something and that will possibly impact the quarter.
We’re not – we don’t have J.D.
Power’s data on that power business.
But we do know that the majority of the business that we booked will start to launch next fiscal year.
So they may not affect the next quarter but it should have a positive effect next year.
So you don’t see that the wind down in the Middle East is an issue relative to the military side of your business? Yeah that’s maybe a matter of opinion.
But most of the programs that we are on deal with revamping or reusing certain platforms energy efficiency on ships that they’re gear to saving money also to protection armored vehicles and the military is using a lot of products it will now go across multiple platforms from an expense savings.
So you can always see cancellations of programs we’ve seen that in the past.
But the point is I think what you’re saying is you have some programs that have been booked and if while they don’t build the vehicles or they do something different those – that those sales wouldn’t show up.
But given kind of expectations and the contract that you have you’re expecting that mix to get better because there will be less telecom and more military? Yes.
Okay.
And then on the Interconnect business and you said softening with Whirlpool and one other in terms of? With Cisco which both customers had been fairly I won’t say robust but the pretty good shipment and we’ve seen some slowdown that might just be a little bit of the summer.
But it was worth mentioning because those are pretty big customers for us.
Okay.
And then – are those contracts or are those just as they order? Both I guess your – we have a design wins and then you’re on the drawing and then most instances where either single sourced or I think in the case of Cisco probably there might be one other personal of those one other company but that’s says as they like Auto that if they need it they order it.
And then finally on the cash burn with regard to the accounts receivable up 6.9 do you expect that to come down sequentially I mean you had a strong July I understand that’s a good news but some customers and the collections are coming or I mean you expect the accounts receivable to come more in line sequentially? Yeah we would expect that to improve.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thanks very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Brown [ph] with (inaudible).
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah hi guys.
Thanks for taking may call.
Hi Josh.
Now to beat a dead horse here on the MyFord Touch deal but as I look at the forex [ph] floor available options they list in MyFord Touch as a singular available option.
Are you saying that if a customer selects the MyFord Touch taking then further select to have TouchSensors and they can take break out your products or have the traditional switches I guess I’m just totally lost there when it comes to where you guys relate to MyFord Touch.
Okay.
No the customer I don’t believe it’s get the choice there.
So if they select MyFord Touch then you guys will be on that system.
I don’t want to say.
I don’t have the platform list in front of me.
I don’t want to mislead you.
We will get back to you and tell you exactly what – on the Explorer.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Yeah.
That’s all I have.
Thanks.
Okay.
Let’s finish it after this.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line Jeremy Hellman with Divine Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
One follow-up on the MDI business wins? Yes.
Can you give us some sense of how significant this inroad is with the OEM language and I think your commentary also was supportive to the language that this contract sounds like it can work larger but can work larger by million or by double in size and also kind of coronary to that.
Are you in any active discussions with other OEMs that you think have a reasonable likely hood of closing that would be of some more scope and scale? Okay.
The technology could very well much as always we’re seeing with lead frames because there is a cost savings there and that particular transmission is more fuel-efficient.
So as that transmission gets deployed on other platforms we would expect – as we indicated that that number should go up and it’s hard to quantify but it’s not going to be just a million.
If you get on a another platform you are going to see a significant increase in that number does it double that’s hard to say but it’s not – it wouldn’t be insignificant.
Is that maybe a better way of asking? Is that OEM or current customer or is this a new customer? No that is a current customer.
Okay.
And does this customer in the past in other products that they are sourcing from you guys shown pretty reasonable habit of stepping up purchasing from you like that? If they are successful with their products and then yes absolutely.
That’s the benefit of one of those – of being an Auto platform is that – is that technology or that’s a product takeoff for the customer you go along for the ride that’s a good position to be in.
A good way of looking at it is what we saw in 276 276 was – I’m going from memory but I want to say it was about a 10 million initial win.
We have to go back and get the exact number.
But now we’re up to about 40 million and that is also a transmission program.
So in contrast to say like a wheel switch where you are really specific to a particular vehicle transmission’s goal across platform often.
All right.
And similarly if you’re – you’re proven success with this current OEM and there’s better performance features.
Then it’s certainly reasonable to expect at other OEMs would have an inclination kind want to purchase this as well right? And that’s correct.
That’s one of the reasons we said and this is the first major deployment of MDI on an Automobile and particularly on the Transmission.
So if there is much like MyFord Touch is that if that is successful we’ll see – we have seen and we announced.
We have another OEM that’s putting on a small platform as an option but it’s hard to see it expand across other automakers of it.
So I really do view this MDI win as very significant.
And it’s a combination of at least five years of design efforts where we were $2.5 million a year in R&amp;D expenses.
Is the three year time period from win to production going to be typical or is that a typical to those on long side? I think it’s a – launching on a transmission is a longer haul than on switches.
I mean it’s much more testing that goes on I mean it’s a pretty harsh environment a 350 degrees and an excess of 350 degrees Fahrenheit.
So it’s a fair amount of test.
In fact I would say that’s going to be typical that maybe slightly less but not by years by months.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
We have no further questions at this time.
So I would like to turn the floor back to management for any closing comments.
Okay.
Back to you Don.
Okay.
Thank you Edward.
To answer the question on the Ford Explorer there’s three different options on MyFord Touch and that’s what you really need to look at.
I know there is this only option we’ll provide more detail on that but there are options that the consumer can choose.
So with that Edward I’ll thank everyone for listening and wish everyone a very pleasant and safe Labor Day weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s teleconference.
And you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Methode Electronics fiscal 2011 second quarter earnings presentation.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management’s expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in Methode’s expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following dependence on a small number of large customers including two large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; seasonal and cyclical nature of some of our businesses; dependence on the availability price and risk of substitution or counterfeit of components and raw materials; ability to compete effectively; customary risks related to conducting global operations; ability to keep pace with rapid technology changes; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions; currency fluctuations; unfavorable tax laws; and the future trading price of our stock.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Mr.
Duda you may begin.
Thank you Kristine and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2011 second quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments today and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
This morning I am pleased to report that the second quarter of fiscal 2011 Methode continued to post strong net sales which improved 8.2% year-over-year and 8.5% sequentially over the first quarter led by improved sales in our Asian automotive and power product segments as well as in our North American and European semiconductor segments.
We achieved this revenue improvement despite the loss of the Delphi business which represented 6.6 million in sales in the second quarter of last year and planned lower legacy automotive products sales of 3.9 million.
Excluding these two items from the year-over-year comparison second quarter fiscal 2011 sales increased 18.6 million or in excess of 21% over the last year which I believe reflects the true measure of our success.
For the first six months of fiscal 2011 net sales increased 8.8% compared to the same period of fiscal 2010.
Excluding the loss of 14.1 million in sales to Delphi and planned lower legacy automotive products sales of 10.2 million sales increased 40.9 million or almost 25%.
As we announced this morning Methode recorded an expense of 3.8 million in the second quarter for unsecured claims Methode had filed against Delphi in Delphi’s bankruptcy proceedings which we sold to Credit Suisse in 2006 and they subsequently assigned to Blue Angel.
We recorded this expense as mandated by accounting rules although we believe we have defenses to the complaint.
This expense adds a considerable negative impact in earnings in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and as a derivative of the unusual manner in which Delphi filed and served the preference complaints.
Additionally we had several other charges and costs in the second quarter that makes an apples-to-apples comparison a little difficult.
Doug will expand upon these in his discussion but let me give you a brief overview.
Consolidated gross margins were 22.1% in both the fiscal 2011 and 2010 second quarters.
Even though our sales increased year-over-year gross margins in the second quarter remained constant due to the loss of sales to Delphi which was a higher margin business line for us and our negotiated program termination charge which was part of the negotiations on a recent major program reward.
For the same reason consolidated gross margins were down 1% early in the first half of fiscal 2011.
Moving on to the segment results in the second quarter automotive segment sales were down 2.5% year-over-year again mainly due to the loss of sales to Delphi and the planned lower legacy automotive product sales.
If we take these two items out of the second quarter automotive segment’s net sales increased almost 20%.
Again excluding Delphi and legacy automotive sales in six-month period net sales increased over 25% year-over-year.
If we also exclude the planned transfer of manufacturing with the (inaudible) China North American automotive segment sales increased 40% and Asian sales increased 63% in the second quarter.
This was primarily the result of the upturn in the U.S.
automotive market.
Sequentially the second quarter automotive sales were up more than 11% over the first quarter.
Automotive segment gross margins in the second quarter and first half were negatively impacted by the loss of the higher margin sales to Delphi as well as other charges and costs in the quarter.
As we launch more programs margins should improve.
As we have said in previous calls we expect the MyFord Touch Center Console Program will ramp in the third quarter.
We expect the lead-frame business to continue to do well.
As such we expect second half automotive sales to mirror the first half.
Interconnect connect sales increased almost 20% in the second quarter and nearly 29% in the first six months.
This was attributable to solid growth in the interface solutions and data solutions businesses.
Sequentially second quarter Interconnect sales were up 5.7% over the first quarter.
However Interconnect sales may be flat to slightly down sequentially in the second half as we are expecting some softening in appliance sales.
Interconnect margins in the second quarter and first half exceeded our target margins for this business due primarily to higher sales volume and a good sales mix.
Power Products sales were up almost 28% in the second quarter and nearly 15% in the first half driven mainly by higher demand for busbar products in Asia and North America.
Sequentially second quarter Power Products sales were up over 4% over the first quarter.
Gross margins decreased year-over-year in the second quarter due to a customer program cancellation and associated expenses which we are seeking to recover as well as from higher costs related to new products development.
As we said last quarter the majority of power business awarded in the last six to 12 months that will launch in fiscal 2012 is higher margin business and as such we expect the segment’s margins to improve overtime.
On to new business wins and ongoing solutions development for our customers in the third quarter of last fiscal year we told you about several opportunities in our North American automotive business which represented significant future revenue potential more than $100 million annually.
Thus far in this fiscal year we have been awarded three of these opportunities with the remaining three still evolving.
First as we announced last month we were awarded a next-generation center stack program for multiple General Motors vehicle platforms starting in model year 2013 with an expected five-year program life.
This program is expected to represent over 57 million in fiscal 2013 revenues and over 100 million in revenues per year starting fiscal 2014.
Additionally we were awarded small center console programs for Kia and have produced a prototype center console for Hyundai [ph].
Methode won these programs because of our innovative work with Ford on the center consoles in its MyFord test platforms and because of the unique touch screens we developed for our premium appliance customers.
Methode’s technology and solutions in both the automotive and appliance markets allowed us to provide a complete solution for these automotive OEMs.
Second we booked additional transmission lead-frame business with our current customer.
This award represents more than 17 million in revenue beginning in fiscal 2013 peaking to 21 million in fiscal – for 2012 peaking to 21 million in fiscal 2013.
We continue to pursue additional lead-frame opportunities for other domestic and European OEMs.
Third we were awarded a prototype program for a major Asian OEM utilizing our biometric sensor for driver identification to authorize telematic transactions.
The other three opportunities we discussed in North American automotive which are still evolving all utilize our MDI technology.
We will keep you apprised of these opportunities.
Beyond those opportunities and also on MDI we are launching a sensor to be used on e-bikes for Bosch in Europe.
E-bikes are traditional pedal bikes with an electric motor which provides electronic pedal-assist but can still be ridden on bike paths in Europe.
Our MDI sensor determines how hard the biker is working which allows the optimum amount of mechanical support.
For instance if a wind comes up the e-biker must pedal harder to maintain the same speed.
The sensor reacts to this and extra power from the motor supply.
This program could represent in excess of $2 million in revenue in fiscal 2012 and demonstrates the versatility of the MDI technology.
In user interface Methode was contracted by a leading worldwide manufacturing welding equipment to develop a concept for multi-featured UI panel to be used across a wide range of welding machines.
Already Methode UI and power customer we approached this customer to demonstrate the rest of our technology toolbox.
It turned out that our touch sensor technology – touch screen technology was of key interest for this customer because of its robustness for the environments in which welders must operate.
we are pursuing two opportunities utilizing our multispectral imaging biometric sensors.
One with a forklift company as part of their operator identification system and the other for a company involved in fleet management.
Both companies have commented that our Lumidigm biometric sensor is the most robust they have seen.
Finally in power we are working with a military contractor on an auxiliary power unit which utilizes several products from our power solutions group.
It is important to note that the majority of these awards we received in this fiscal year won’t get our revenue line until fiscal 2014 as it takes 18 to 24 months from the date of an award to the launch of a program and about 36 months to reach full production of volume.
We continue to rebuild our revenue stream by serving large growth markets by providing solutions that deliver genuine value for our customers and higher margins for our shareholders and by focusing on innovation and integration of patent and technologies.
Our goal is to reach our historical revenue high of 551 million in fiscal 2014 which includes all the new business wins we discussed today.
In summary we are encouraged by ourselves improving in the first half of fiscal 2011 and at this point expect similar results in the second half.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will provide further details regarding our financial results.
Doug? Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
I am glad to keep my comments brief today since we provided detailed information about our consolidated and segments’ results in both our earnings release and 10-Q filings.
Don mentioned that we had some significant items in both the current and last year’s results that makes for our difficult apples-to-apples comparison.
Let me walk you through some non-GAAP adjustments.
For the second quarter we reported a net loss of $0.5 million or $0.01 per share.
This compares to net income of 2.1 million or $0.06 per share in last year’s quarter.
Excluding the 3.8 million Blue Angel charge and the negotiated program termination charge of 1.3 million the current quarter’s net income would be 4.6 million or $0.12 per share.
In last year’s results if we excluded the negative effect of the 3.2 million of restructuring charges and the offsetting favorable effect of reversing a 1.7 million one-time pricing accrual then last year’s second quarter net income would have been 3.5 million or $0.10 per share therefore on an adjusted non-GAAP basis net income was 4.6 million this quarter compared to 3.5 million last year’s quarter or $0.12 per share this quarter versus $0.10 last year.
For the six-month period we reported net income of 3.6 million or $0.10 per share.
This compares to 2 million or $0.06 per share in last year’s six-month period.
Excluding the $3.8 million Blue Angel charge and the negotiated program termination charge of 1.3 million in the current six-month period net income would be 8.7 million or $0.23 per share.
If last year’s results excluded the negative effect of 6.8 million of restructuring charges and the favorable effect of reversing a $1.7 million one-time pricing approval then last year’s six-month period net income would have been 7.1 million or $0.19 per share.
So on a non-GAAP basis net income was 8.7 million in the current six-month period compared to 7.1 million last year or $0.23 versus $0.19.
Just some comments on cost of products sold.
In the current quarter as a percentage of sales it was 78.9% compared to 79% last year.
The comparison would have been better this year except for a few unusual items in the current quarter such as the negotiated program cancellation charge of 1.3 million.
We had some vendor supply issues on a new product launch that was about 600 000.
We had a customer cancellation charge of 400 000 and we incurred slightly higher environmental charges this year of about 300 000.
So those negatively impacted the cost of products sold as a percent of sales this year.
Likewise in the six-month period cost of products sold as a percent of sales was 79.5% this year compared to 79% last year.
And again the comparison would have been better except for the negotiated program cancellation charge vendor supply issues on the new product launch which were about 700 000 in the six-month period the customer cancellation charge and about $0.5 million of additional higher environmental charges this year versus last year’s six-month period.
Looking at selling and administrative expense in the quarter selling and administrative as a percent of sales was 19.9% compared to 16.6% last year.
If you just remove the Blue Angel charge then selling and administrative this year would drop to 16.3% which is slightly below last year’s 16.6%.
This is encouraging especially since we are incurring slightly higher selling and administrative costs in the automotive segment to support some of the future growth.
For the six-month period selling and administrative expense as a percent of sales was 18.3%.
This compares to 17.2% last year.
Again if you exclude the Blue Angel charge in this year’s six-month period as a percent of sales selling and administrative would be 16.4% compared to 17.2% last year.
I wanted to point out that in the quarter we did borrow 18 million under our credit facility.
Currently most of our cash is located outside of the U.S.
And while we expect to generate cash in the U.S.
through future domestic operations and through the collection of refundable income tax and other cash repatriation methods it may be necessary to borrow from our foreign affiliates or to borrow again under the credit facility for the near term.
In the quarter we recorded a foreign exchange loss of approximately $2 million.
This was primarily the result of the weakening of the Dollar versus the Euro.
During the second quarter the U.S.
Dollar to Euro went from a high of 0.79 to a low of 0.71 about a 10% swing so that’s significantly impacted the results.
The encouraging news is that based on the recent strengthening of the Dollar to the Euro since the end of the quarter the USD to Euro has come back to as high as 0.77.
So we will be looking to be opportunistic and lock in those gains when appropriate during the second half of the year.
Just finally a comment on operating cash during the first six months we generated 3.8 million cash from operating activities.
However this was about an 11.8 million less than we generated in last year’s six-month period.
This was primarily due to the change in working capital and again the change in working capital was primarily attributable to the higher sales activity.
So we saw an increase in accounts receivable in inventory this was partially offset by increase in accounts payable.
Additionally the increase in inventory was also occurred because we were carrying some higher inventory for certain components that had been in short supply in the marketplace.
Don that concludes my remarks.
All right.
Thank you Doug.
Kristine we are ready to take questions.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
Our first question is from Jeremy Hellman with Divine Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning guys.
Congrats on a nice quarter.
Thanks Jeremy.
And thanks also for putting out that 10-Q earlier I like that makes my job easy.
A number of things on my end.
Just trying to get to what is if you will normalize SG&amp;A expense level if you back up Blue Angel that gets it down to 17.5 million for the quarter and then there was program termination costs and write-downs and vendor supply that’s another 2.6 [ph] or so am I right? And thinking that will be backed out getting me down to about 15 million or so for kind of a base SG&amp;A level? Jeremy just didn’t quite hear you what were you backing out in Blue Angel? Blue Angel then 1.3 million of program termination costs 0.7 –? Yes those are in cost of products.
That’s simple.
That’s right yes.
So I actually had my question upside down and if I back those out of cost of products sold that comes out to about 4.7% of revenues.
So for the auto gross margin let me say it’s going to pick up anyway based on what you have got coming down the pipe but that gets it up to around 22 in change is kind of a go-forward basis for gross margin is that I am thinking about that right? I think we have said that we were in the – going forward probably the high teens.
Yes I don’t know that I would go as high as that – what you have taken out there but I don’t think we would see that I think high teens is a little bit – Okay.
And then kind of thinking about the margins again when you mentioned your 2014 goal of hitting that $551 million revenue target do you have any kind of framework around where you would like margins to be with that revenue level? I would refer you to the – you are talking about gross margins? Whichever margins you would care to comment on EBITDA margins gross margins that margins if you want to go that far.
I will let you go from a gross margin line down but I would use what we put out recently on the gross margin ranges by segment.
Okay.
Legal expense I think in the Q you mentioned that that has come down a bit how much was legal expense in the quarter? There is 600 000.
Okay.
Legal? I am sorry it was 600 000 less I think – I am sorry it wasn’t 600 000 it was 600 000 less than last year.
Okay last year.
And as we commented that will (inaudible).
So is there anything in this quarter that’s currently scheduled that you would look to skew it in this quarter? No it’s hard to predict.
Okay.
No.
All right.
One last one from me and then I will jump back.
Have you seen anything that would cause you to change your assumptions with Ford in the MyFord Touch with about 12 million second half this year ramping to 40 next year and beyond.
We had a good launch with them from a standpoint of them filling their pipeline.
They had a delayed launch.
So they picked it in the high gear recently.
We are probably going to be into the mid-teens.
I think we said 12 million I think we will be in the mid-teens for the year so that’s going to update slightly in the second half.
But and then looking into next year any –? I don’t know if I want to go that far.
Let’s see how those products receive in the marketplace.
Okay thanks.
Thanks Jeremy.
(Operator instructions) Our next question is from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
It’s Keith Schicker on the line for David.
Hi Keith.
If I step back it looks like the quarter came in better than what you guys were initially looking for and an outlook provided in the last 10-Q could you just comment on just indeed that is the case how the results are compared with what your initial expectations were and what the swing factors were one way or another that push it higher or lower? Certainly in automotive we benefited from the uptick in the U.S.
automotive business and then that drove in our Asian sales T-76 Lead-frame sales were very good (inaudible) sensor business which all comes out of the Asians was quite good.
So that really helped us interconnect which is a little harder to forecast was stronger.
So I think this kind of a maybe than expected takeaways from our customers across the board certainly benefited us.
Okay.
And then if I look at some of the items the vendor supply agreement and the customer cancellation a if I want to back those out of the number should I or is there any tax effect that I need to consider there and b are those things that you would expect to continue going forward or are those just one-time items during this quarter? The customer cancellation those kind of happen all the time.
We just commented on that because it did happen in fact year-over-year.
The negotiated program charges it was different because that was kind of a quick pro quote as Don mentioned in his comments in order to win some new business.
So that one we consider that’s more one-time I think we have seen that before.
As far as the tax front on that that happened to be business in Malta and in Malta there is no tax impacts of both pre and post-taxes the same amount likewise on – you are going to ask about the Blue Angel in the U.S.
because of our situation with net operating losses we have taken full evaluation allowance from that.
And so there is no tax benefit to be recorded on that.
And then vendor supply agreement is this component shortages maybe we have heard other supplies talk about some electronic component shortages is that what the issue is there? No in that case it was really a capacity issue at the supplier.
They ran into problems we incurred premium freights and significant overtime.
You can treat that as one-time but every couple of years you have something like that.
That’s not something that you have routinely.
But occasionally supplier has a problem and last one was about five years ago maybe with Setco [ph] when they went under.
So I will leave that to the side.
Okay.
And then if I look at the legacy business and the Delphi business are we through the point now where that’s out of the prior-year comparison right now and that’s not going to be something that depresses the year-over-year revenue growth comparison as there is still a little bit more to roll off? Yes going into third quarter fourth quarter it will be a good comparison but obviously the year-to-date will have a little bit in it.
Okay.
And then Don I got caught up with one of our comments before.
The new T-76 lead-frame business is that something that’s just newly announced this quarter or was that just about the last quarter when you reported earnings as well? We discussed it last quarter.
Okay so that’s – I wanted to update from third quarter of last year where we had listed out the opportunities.
(inaudible) Those are all included in the numbers you saw at the Baird Conference.
Okay.
And so it looks like that revenue opportunity went up a little bit though you are talking about $38 million now.
I thought we had written down to 20 million last quarter? That maybe I need to follow-up offline? Let us follow up on that.
It may just be the difference in the fiscal years so let’s look that.
Okay.
That’s all I had for now.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks Keith.
Mr.
Duda Thank you Kristine.
That will conclude the call and we wish everyone very pleasant and safe holiday season.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2011 Third Quarter Earnings Presentation.
[Operator Instructions] This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the Securities Laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including two large Automotive customers; dependence on the Automotive appliance computer and communications industries; seasonal and cyclical nature of some of our businesses; dependence on the availability price and risk of substitution or counterfeit of components and raw materials; rising crude oil prices may result in higher costs for resin and other petroleum-based material; ability to compete effectively; customary risks related to conducting global operations; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; currency fluctuations; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions; unfavorable tax laws; the future trading price of our stock; and the risk of owning real property.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Mr.
Duda you may begin.
Thank you Christine and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2011 third quarter financial results conference call.
I'm joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Methode's Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments today and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2011 Methode achieved solid sales improvement with sales up 13.7% compared to the same period last year and 10.4% for the nine-month period.
In our Automotive segment we experienced higher sales in our transmission lead frame and steering-angle sensor products as well as from the MyFord Touch center console program.
Our Power Products segment also had strong sales.
Interconnect sales were down primarily as a result of Whirlpool significantly reducing their requirements for TouchSensor products during the quarter as a result of lower appliance sales.
Adjusting the nine-month results for the loss of sales to Delphi and planned lower sales of legacy Automotive products which together totaled $24.3 million consolidated sales in the nine months of fiscal 2011 increased 21%.
As we announced this morning Methode settled the Blue Angel matter for $2.1 million.
This resulted in a $1.7 million reversal off the $3.8 million expense we recorded in the second quarter resulting in a benefit to net income in the third quarter but a negative impact on earnings in the nine-month period.
Additionally we have several expenses and benefits in the third quarter and nine-month period that make an apples-to-apples comparison a little difficult.
Doug will expand upon these in his discussion.
Consolidated gross margins were 19.2% compared to 17.2% a year ago.
This was attributable mainly to higher sales as well as margin improvement in our Automotive segment partially offset by manufacturing inefficiencies related to multiple product launches which I will talk about more in a moment.
In the first nine months consolidated gross margins were 20.7% in both this year's and last year's period.
Even though our sales increased year-over-year gross margins remained constant due to loss of sales to Delphi which was a higher margin business line for us as well as other charges and costs that Doug will discuss shortly.
While we believe the particular vendor supply and delivery issues we experienced in the second and third quarters have been resolved we may however continue to experience manufacturing inefficiencies in the next few quarters due to multiple product launches as well as component shortages which also hamper our production efficiencies.
Some additional detail on the segment results.
In this third quarter Automotive segment sales improved over 20% year-over-year.
As I mentioned this was due to higher sales in our transmission lead frame and steering-angle sensor products in Asia and the MyFord Touch center console program here in North America.
Sequentially we saw a 4% drop in overall Automotive sales from the second quarter due to seasonality as December is typically our slowest month of the year as well as the aforementioned drop in European sales.
Sales were up close to 3% in the Automotive segment in a nine-month comparison but were negatively impacted by the loss of sales to Delphi and the planned lower sales of legacy Automotive products.
If we take out these two items Automotive segment sales increased almost 23% in the first nine months of fiscal 2011 compared to 2010.
The planned transfer of the manufacturing of the T-76 lead frame product from the U.S.
to China skewed our North American Automotive segment sales for the nine-month period.
Excluding the loss of sales of Delphi the planned lower sales of legacy Automotive products and the transfer of the T-76 business North American Automotive segment sales were up about 37% in the first nine months primarily the result of the continued launch of the MyFord Touch center console program.
Automotive segment gross margins improved substantially in this third quarter over 2010 more than doubling from 8% to over 17% despite the vendor issues and manufacturing inefficiencies.
These additional costs were the consequence of a record number of new product launches.
As in the past we have instituted our corrective actions and anticipate as we progress through the launches into full production these issues will be behind us.
In the nine-month period Automotive segment gross margins improved modestly despite the loss of a higher-margin Delphi business and the aforementioned costs.
Interconnect sales decreased almost 4% in this third quarter compared to last year attributable mainly to the planned exit of legacy connector products in Asia and the lower planned sales in North America which affected our TouchSensor business.
These lower sales were partially offset by increased sales of safety remote control products compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010.
Sequentially third quarter Interconnect sales were down almost 11% again mainly due to the reduced appliance sales which we expect to continue into Methode's fourth quarter.
Despite slower business Interconnect margins in the third quarter and the first nine months are at the high-end of our target for this business segment due primarily to a good sales mix.
Power product sales were up significantly in the third quarter and the first nine months has certain awards we received in the fiscal 2009 had moved to the design and testing stages and have commenced production.
In the third quarter sales were up over 35% as a result of higher flexible cabling heat sink and bus bar demand.
Sales for the nine months were up over 21% as a result of higher bus bar demand and new introduction of Power Products into Europe.
Sequentially third quarter Power Products sales were up over 8% over the second quarter and were particularly strong in our North American segment.
While gross margins decreased year-over-year this was mainly due to a product development cost of approximately $700 000 for a new award that I will discuss in a moment.
In a nine-month comparison gross margins decreased due to a customer program cancellation and associated expenses which we are seeking to recover as well as the new product development cost I just mentioned.
On to new business wins and ongoing solutions development for our customers.
In the first quarter of this fiscal year we announced that our MDI group was awarded a contract to provide a top-tier Automotive OEM with a custom sensor using our Magneto-Elastic technology for the measurement of clutch plate position in a new fuel efficient dual clutch six-speed transmissions.
Initially the award represented approximately $1.5 million in revenue in fiscal 2014 ramping to $10 million in fiscal 2016.
We are very pleased to announce today that we've received additional volume from the OEM's [original equipment manufacturers] Chinese joint venture for approximately $0.5 million in revenue in fiscal 2014 but ramping to $10 million in fiscal 2016.
This program now totals approximately $2 million in revenue in fiscal 2014 ramping to $20 million in fiscal 2016.
We will begin producing these sensors for multiple platforms in the second half of fiscal 2014 and are currently in the design and development stage working closely with the domestic OEM.
In our Power Products segment we were awarded a program to provide an onboard integrated polonium which contains a 10-kilowatt charger and auxiliary for attainable power supply and the associated vehicle interface controller for a pure electric commercial truck being launched by a domestic OEM.
Based on Eetrex's power electronic technology and know-how and Methode's Automotive engineering and design for manufacturing expertise the Eetrex Methode team work together from concept to production readiness.
The $700 000 expense mentioned earlier was the cost of development of this product.
The production award represents approximately $2 million in revenue in fiscal 2012 ramping to $10 million in fiscal 2014.
The technologies being developed by Eetrex and marketed and manufactured by Methode are synergistic and complementary to our Power Solutions portfolio.
A number of our current customers have expressed interest in these power electronic systems and represent an additional revenue pipeline for Methode as the push for alternative energy solutions expands.
Speaking of Eetrex I am also pleased to announce today that Methode has reached an agreement to make an additional investment in Eetrex of approximately $1 million increasing our ownership to 51%.
We also have the opportunity to take our investment to 90% at our option.
Finally regarding the Hyundai Center Stack Program we discussed last quarter which represented approximately $2 million in revenue in fiscal 2012 this award was for a mid-year short-lived program.
Because of the time to design develop and launch the Center Stacks Hyundai elected to carry over the current design instead of using our Center Stack.
Hyundai has indicated that they will potentially use our technology in a more prominent full-year launch in the future.
In summary in this third quarter Methode continued to demonstrate its capability of developing new technologies and more importantly to use those technologies to bring products and solutions to our customers.
Moving forward we are pleased with our strategic progress and the growth opportunities that we see ahead.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will provide further details regarding our financial results.
Doug? Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone.
Before I cover some of the more significant expense and benefit items that affected the quarter and nine-month period let me walk you through the non-GAAP adjustments that we included in our earnings release.
For the third quarter we reported net income of $5.9 million or $0.16 per share.
This compares to a net loss of $4.5 million or $0.12 per share in last year's third quarter.
In the current quarter we reversed $1.7 million of the Blue Angel expense that we recorded in this year's second quarter.
By excluding this benefit third quarter net income would be reduced to $4.1 million or $0.11 per share.
In last year's third quarter results if we excluded the negative impact of $600 000 of restructuring charges last year's third quarter net loss would've been reduced to $3.8 million or $0.11 loss per share.
Therefore on an adjusted non-GAAP basis our net income was $4.1 million this quarter compared to a loss of $3.8 million in last year's quarter or $0.11 earnings per share this quarter versus an $0.11 per share loss last year.
For the nine-month period we reported net income of $9.4 million or $0.25 per share.
This compares to a net loss of $2.4 million or $0.07 per share in last year's nine-month period.
Excluding the $2.1 million expense for the Blue Angel matter and a negotiated program termination charge of $1.3 million that was recorded in the second quarter the current nine-month period net income would have been $12.8 million or $0.34 per share.
If last year's results excluded the negative effect of $7.3 million of restructuring charges and the offset in favorable effect of reversing a $1.7 million one-time pricing accrual last year's nine-month period would have been a net income of $3.4 million or $0.09 per share.
Therefore on a non-GAAP basis the net income for the nine-month period was $12.8 million compared to $3.4 million last year or $0.34 per share this year compared to $0.09 per share last year.
Looking at our cost of products sold.
In the current quarter as a percentage of sales our cost of products sold was 81.6% compared to 84.1% last year.
This comparison would've been better except for a few unusual items.
In the current quarter we had a vendor supply issue on a new product launch that was about $1.3 million.
We also had some manufacturing efficiencies at our multi-operation caused by multiple product launches that Don discussed earlier.
While it's difficult to quantify the cost of these inefficiencies we know that it did negatively affect our cost of goods sold in the quarter.
In the nine-month period cost of products sold as a percentage of sales was 80.2% compared to 80.6% last year.
As with the three-month period the comparison would have been better except for the vendor supply issues which were $2 million for the nine-month period also the negotiated program cancellation charge of $1.3 million and a customer translation charge of $400 000 and additionally the manufacturing efficiencies caused by the multiple product launches in the third quarter.
In selling and administrative in the current quarter as a percentage of sales it was 15.3% compared to 19.2% last year.
If the $1.7 million Blue Angel expense reversal were excluded then selling and administrative would have been 17% which is still below our 19.2% in last year's third quarter.
It should be noted that this year's selling and administrative expense included $1.2 million higher stock award amortization which was offset by lower Delphi legal expense of $1.2 million.
In the nine-month period selling and administrative as a percent of sales were 17.4% compared to 17.8% last year.
Here if the Blue Angel net expense of the $2.1 million were excluded selling and administrative as a percentage of sales would have been 15.7% which is still below last year's 17.8%.
This nine-month period selling and administrative expense included $1.2 million higher stock award amortization partially offset by lower Delphi legal expense of $800 000 for the nine-month period.
As I mentioned before a part of the increase in selling and administrative was the stock award amortization.
Going forward we expect this amortization to be higher.
In October of 2010 the shareholders approved a five-year performance award for management.
Last year's stock award amortization was low because the performance was granted over the past three years.
It became worthless because of the restructuring and impairment charges taken over the last several years.
So going forward we expect the stock award amortization to be in the range of $800 000 and $900 000 per quarter.
If you look at operating cash during the first nine months we generated $19.6 million of cash from operating activities.
While this was $3.7 million higher than last year it does include a $13.1 million federal tax refund for a net operating loss carryback that was received in the third quarter.
This offset net increase in working capital that primarily resulted from the increased sales activities.
Additionally in order to protect the supply chain we are also carrying higher inventory for certain components that have been in short supply in the market.
Just lastly I want to comment on the credit facility.
On February 25 we renewed our bank credit facility.
The new facility like the old is for $75 million.
It does have a five-year term and the borrowing and commitment spreads are tiered based on our debt-to-EBITDA ratio and at our current debt-to-EBITDA ratio fiscal result in lower spreads than the expiring facility.
Don that concludes my remarks.
Thank you Doug.
Christine we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jeremy Hellman with Divine Capital Markets.
Hi good morning everybody.
A couple of things here.
You guys laid out a lot of detail.
There's not a lot that leads a lot to the imagination.
But on the new power award the integrated power unit that you were talking about that's with a nice sub you said here with Eetrex and Methode you mentioned several hundred thousand of expense to date on that.
Where do you see that total expense shaking out firstly? And then kind of looking at your ability to go and take this to other OEMs how replicable is it from a cost basis to go sell that elsewhere? Or do you have to go through kind of a full development spectrum to do that I guess..
That's a good question.
Let me first answer the $700 000.
We'll incur some additional cost but I don't think they will be that notable.
That expense is to really to develop the product line such that we could take that charger to other OEMs and present it to them.
To our knowledge it's one of the few 10-kilowatt chargers available.
So we certainly have been speaking with others and this first award was -- the first one is always the hardest one to get.
So that helps greatly and we have been talking with other OEMs.
So it is very applicable to other opportunities.
Okay great.
And then secondly for me just some model details here just because you had some things that work for and against you.
In terms of the Auto segment gross margin I think the vendor supply issue sounds like it was about 130 basis points or so in the quarter of a headwind.
You mentioned that the inefficiencies involved you can't really quantify.
But kind of going forward I guess where my focus is is that 18.5% to 19% still a reasonable basis to think about? Yes I would say that that's reasonable.
And we said in the past we're going to have chappy quarters.
We're going to have some things that don't go our way.
I think we're very good at launching products.
But as I said in my prepared remarks we've got a record number of launches and we're going to have some issues from time to time.
The one issue that we had the larger one -- I hope we don't have another issue like that but we're going to have some choppiness as we launch these programs and move to production but the percentage is probably -- that's a good number.
And then last one for me and I'll hop out.
Just looking at the SG&amp;A line you had the 1.7 that was a one-time reversal.
Stock comp you covered and then the legal now drops out if I'm correct.
Is that right? Yes.
The legal was down in both the nine month and...
Okay.
So that ought to get you to somewhere around $16 million or so as a quarterly run-rate level? Does that sound right to you guys? Yes you're talking about the quarter SG&amp;A? Yes.
Yes that's about -- yes that's probably a conservative number to use $16 million $16.5 million is conservative.
We just have to bake in the long-term incentive program that we just talked about.
So that would be comparing last year to this year.
Going forward that LTI [ph] amortization will be a little bit higher.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Hi good morning.
This is Joe Vruwink on the line for David.
Hey Don can you just go over the clutch sensor award one more time? I was a little slow in catching all the detail on the add-on portion of that contract.
The award is for a 6-feet dual clutch transmission that the domestic OEM is having -- the transmission is being built domestically and also in China via their joint venture.
We're not at liberty to say who the OEM is but it's a prominent domestic OEM.
And we anticipated that they would first begin with the U.S.
transmission and then ultimately would also be sourced in China.
I can go through the numbers again for you.
It starts out relatively slow at a couple of million per year and then by fiscal '16 I guess it's to $20 million.
I just went back to that page.
It's $2 million in '14 and then ramping to $20 million by '16.
And what was the original value with the...
The original was 1.5 but we didn't really add all that much in '14 but it doubled by '16.
So it was originally 1.5 going to '10.
Now it's 2 going to '20.
On these vendor supply costs so with these cost I guess it looks like you had about $600 000 last quarter and $1.3 million this quarter and now you're saying that it's not going to be an issue going forward.
Was the uptick in cost this quarter a result of actions Methode was taking to negate future costs or what's a good way to think about this? Uptick in cost in? Well uptick in the vendor supply costs I believe at the last part you implied that they were $600 000.
Now you're talking $1.3 million.
Yes there was premium freight in there.
There's overtime so that all culminated in the third quarter.
And at the end of the prior quarter I don't think it was a full quarter.
I think...
No I agree.
I got it.
With Automotive Jeremy kind of touched on it but even if you consider -- take out the positive reversal of the Blue Angel expense and then offset that with the vendor supply cost so just consider those netting out you still did a 10% margin at the pretax line which is pretty strong considering you're still going through obvious manufacturing efficiencies.
And I'm just wondering with the new business that you've launched in Automotive over the past year as we get this Ford volume coming on the transmission lead frame business.
Is sort of this 10% level kind of structurally what we can expect going forward with the obvious give and takes with things that may happen in the supply chain and as you launch these programs certain costs related to those? I would agree with that except we're going to incur costs for launching the GM [General Motors] program.
So I think you have to model that in a bit.
That's the largest launch I think Methode has probably ever done.
So we're going to have some costs to put that into production but I think I would temper with that.
On the gross margin line though I think we will stick with what we said in the past it's the high teens.
Okay.
And then did you pay down the amount you had outstanding on your prior revolver that $18 million I believe you had out last quarter? Yes.
That was paid off at the end of the quarter.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Jeremy Hellman with Divine Capital Markets.
Just following up on your comment right there on the GM launch cost just to make sure I'm kind of thinking about this correctly where I guess when and how much do you see that becoming significant through the P&amp;L? Is that going to kind of crescendo up into the 2013 period? Am I thinking about that right? I would use -- we're seeing about $100 000.
My view is about $300 000 a quarter.
It's not insignificant but it's not -- it's noteworthy.
It may increase slightly.
So we ramp down our engineering quite a bit during the downturn.
Right but that's all -- it's fairly levelized quarter-to-quarter? Yes with the said amount.
Now as we get closer to launch you'll see some inventory increases and the normal stuff that occurs as you go through the launch but we're a year away from returning on that closet.
Right okay.
The other one for me is more kind of longer term strategy oriented just around the Power segment.
Kind of looking at this topic we're talking about before with the power unit can you give us any kind of perspective on what you see if you want to call it addressable market or addressable opportunities? Certainly $2 million in fiscal '12 going to $10 million in fiscal '14.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how much -- whether that's just scratching the surface of what could be a nine-figure revenue opportunity or what.
Just kind of some sense of that would be helpful.
Let me make two comments.
You've heard me say that the Power segment I get fairly excited about that because we're in a unique position in that we have been in high-current power apparatus for probably over 20 years.
And we're also in the Automotive business and you're seeing -- what's happening in the marketplace is the high-current systems are being used on hybrid and pure electric vehicles.
And we're in somewhat of a unique position as we have our Automotive manufacturing pedigree.
So there's a lot of companies that can provide onboard chargers and power management systems but not that many that have Methode's credentials in power so that are in manufacturing and Automotive.
So that puts us I think in a nice position.
Now trying to peg the market even look at any market study on electric vehicles and so how long do you see a hockey-stick type ramp so it's hard to peg that.
I'm not really happy with the price of gas and oil but it does tend to push more companies towards the alternative fuel vehicles.
So Jeremy it is really hard to say.
I mean I've read one report where if we just took a small percentage of that market we'd have a huge business.
The quick answer is I think it's probably too soon to tell.
We do know that these programs are in the $5 million to $10 million $15 million range.
So if you pick off $3 million $4 million $5 million of those that makes for a nice business.
And the technology is what we developed and we spent some money on is applicable to other customers.
So we're excited about it but it's hard to peg a number.
Right.
Well maybe one way of looking at it from my end is this a situation where they come to you completely and I guess the question is how proactive are you or can you be in kind of like showing them kind of what's out there and what they can do from a product solution perspective? And that is why we wanted to an alliance with Eetrex because it's Eetrex that has the engineering capability or the reputation [indiscernible] but they are known in the marketplace.
So linking up with a company like Methode allows our customers to -- okay I can get this technology and I can get it manufactured by a pro so I guess through their own hardware [ph] but that's a nice combination.
So Eetrex does have people that come to them but we're also being very proactive.
Now that we have a charger and probably it's really at the prototype or the P&amp;D [Prototype &amp; Design] stage.
We are laying it out and talking to other accounts.
So it's a combination of both.
Mr.
Duda there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back to you for closing comments.
Thank you Christine.
We will wish everyone a very good day and thank you for calling in.
Good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
[Audio Gap] to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations: dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large Automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; further downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain Automotive customers; ability to compete effectively; customary risks related to conducting global operations; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; unfavorable tax laws; ability to implement and profit from newly acquired technology; and the future trading price of our stock.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Mr.
Duda you may begin.
Thank you Diego and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our Fiscal 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results Conference Call.
I'm joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments today and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
Our strong sales performance in the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011 demonstrates the continuing success of our strategy to offer customers system solutions with brand-differentiating technology.
With over 23% sales growth for the quarter we continue the momentum we established last year ending with over 13% sales growth for the year.
Adjusting the fiscal 2011 results for the loss of sales to Delphi and planned lower sales of legacy automotive products which together totaled $32.3 million in fiscal 2010 consolidated sales in fiscal 2011 increased 24%.
A key point is that in just one short year we have rebuilt Methode's revenue from a 7-year low of $378 million in fiscal 2010 despite the reduction of legacy automotive products and the loss of the Delphi business an accomplishment all Methode employees should be very proud of.
As we reported in this morning's release in March we sold Methode's 75% ownership in Optokon a fiber-optic interconnect company in the Czech Republic to the minority shareholder for $10 million resulting in a gain net of taxes of $0.6 million or $0.02 per share.
Additionally we had a number of expenses and benefits in the fourth quarter and year which Doug will expand upon in his discussion.
For the fourth quarter consolidated gross margins were 21.7% compared to 23.3% a year ago.
And for the year consolidated gross margins were 20.8% compared to 21.2% in fiscal 2010.
In both periods of 2011 vendor production and delivery issues as well as higher designing developing and engineering costs to support production -- to support products expected to launch in fiscal 2013 negatively impacted results.
Additionally full year gross margin were negatively affected by the loss of the Delphi business which was a higher-margin business line for us.
We are taking steps to rectify our vendor production and delivery issues.
Specifically these issues relate to an intricate paint process for automotive center consoles.
Although we put in place a number of fixes and process improvements at the suppliers between the third and fourth quarters as I said these parts are particularly complex.
As such we are not going to receive consistent automotive quality from any supplier at least not in high volumes.
For that reason we have decided to vertically integrate a portion of these processes.
That being said this is vertical integration we have planned to make prior to launching the GM consoles expected to launch in fiscal 2013 but have decided to implement sooner based on the issues we are currently having which we anticipate will have a $1.5 million to $2.5 million effect on Methode's fiscal 2012 income.
It's our intent to have our in-house capabilities online as we enter fiscal 2013.
Capital cost to vertically integrate the paint processes are likely to be $10 million to $15 million depending on how much qualified used equipment is available.
That estimate is still preliminary.
Moving now to segment results.
In the fourth quarter Automotive segment net sales increased over 38% due to higher sales in our transmission lead frame and steering angle sensor products as well as from the MyFord Touch center console program.
Sales in Asia grew 44%.
In North America sales grew 160%.
But bear in mind that business was down to very little due to the exit of legacy automotive products in North America and the loss of the Delphi business.
For the year Automotive segment sales increased 11% but were negatively impacted by the loss of sales to Delphi and the planned lower sales of legacy Automotive products.
If we take out these 2 items Automotive segment sales increased over 32% in fiscal 2011 compared to 2010.
Automotive segment gross margins decreased in the fourth quarter impacted by the vendor issue I discussed and costs related to the launch of a large automotive program.
For the year gross margins fell slightly impacted by the loss of the higher-margin Delphi business and the aforementioned costs.
Moving on to Interconnect.
Sales decreased 2% in the fourth quarter compared to last year attributable mainly to lower appliance sales in North America which affected our TouchSensor business as well as the sale of Optokon.
These lower sales were partially offset by increased sales of data and safety remote control products compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.
For the year Interconnect sales improved nearly 12% due to strong sales in North America and Europe again from increased sales of data and safety remote control products.
In Asia Interconnect sales were down year-over-year due to the planned exit of the legacy business.
We anticipate reduced appliance sales will continue into fiscal 2012.
Despite lower business Interconnect's margins in the fourth quarter and full year are at the high end of our target for this business segment due primarily to a favorable sales mix.
Our Power Products segment also had strong sales up 35% in the fourth quarter and 24% for the year as certain awards we received in fiscal 2009 have moved through the design and testing stages and have commenced production.
In the fourth quarter and full year higher busbar flexible cabling and heat sink products drove the improvement in sales.
Power product gross margins decreased in the fourth quarter and year mainly due to product development costs for the onboard integrated power unit award that we discussed last quarter.
As a reminder this power unit for a pure electric commercial truck being launched by a domestic OEM contains a 10-kilowatt charger an auxiliary 14-volt power supply and the associated vehicle interface controller and is based on Eetrex's power electronics technology.
Excluding the product development costs Power Product gross margins were almost 26% for the fourth quarter and 25% for the year.
On to new business wins.
In the fourth quarter we were awarded 3 unique busbar sub-assemblies to be used to interconnect lithium-ion battery cells to form a battery module with a number of modules making up the battery pack.
This application developed by a major Japanese OEM will be used on an electric vehicle to be sold in North America and Europe.
The product will launch in fiscal 2013 with approximately $4 million in revenue and ramp to approximately $11 million per year in fiscal 2014 with an expected program life of 6 years.
We may see greater fluctuations in the projected revenue than with a typical Automotive program due to some expected volatility on electric vehicle demand.
However as this product will be utilized on a common battery pack it is likely to be specified for other vehicle platforms by this OEM.
Ford Motor Company issued a press release at the beginning of June which discussed the expansion of their fuel-efficient powertrains.
In its release Ford refers to their new 8-speed automatic transmission which will feature an input torque sensor that enables faster selection of the proper gear.
This sensor is Methode's torque sensor which we have discussed in previous calls.
You may recall this torque sensor utilizes magneto-elastic technology a patent attempting technology which allows a significant advancement in powertrain controls improving shift quality and reliability.
Rugged and reliable Methode's torque sensor is designed to operate in the harsh environment of the transmission.
We are honored to have been included in the development of Ford's advanced technologies.
Also a recent article in Popular Mechanics refers to the torque sensor as an impressive feature again referring to Ford's new 8-speed automatic transmissions.
The article calls the ability to measure true torque the holy grail of transmission control.
We will post a link to the Popular Mechanics article on our website.
All in all we had an impressive year of bookings in fiscal 2011 and I want to take this opportunity to thank the Methode team.
Our overall outlook is cautiously optimistic.
Although our European businesses may experience some softness we expect our North American Automotive production and Power Products Sales to continue to improve in fiscal 2012 and '13 as programs are launched.
Through activities initiated in prior years we've been able to reduce our cost structure which we again expect to result in improved operating margins as sales increase and the new business awards I have discussed in previous calls launch in fiscal 2012 '13 and '14.
As I mentioned we do expect to carry higher designing development and engineering costs in fiscal 2012 to support products scheduled to launch.
We anticipate these expenses to be in the range of $2.5 million to $2.8 million.
As a company we are committed to developing new product solutions for our customers and to making strategic capital investments as we pursue our growth strategy.
In summary in this uncertain economy Methode remains focused on the proven strategies that have enabled us to address these economic headwinds and grow the company.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who'll provide further details regarding our financial results.
Doug? Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
Before I cover some of the more significant expense and benefit items that affected cost of products sold and selling and administrative in the quarter and the full year let me walk you through the non-GAAP adjustments that we included in our earnings release.
For the fourth quarter we reported net income attributable to Methode of $10.1 million or $0.26 per share.
This compares to a net income attributable to Methode of $16.1 million or $0.44 per share in last year's quarter.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 we recorded a gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $600 000 or $0.02 per share.
That was the sale of our 75% interest in Optokon that Don just talked about a little while ago.
Because of the GAAP intra-period tax allocation rules continuing operations benefited by the taxes allocated to the Optokon sale.
Therefore if the Optokon sale is excluded from the quarterly results the $3.5 million tax benefit to continuing operations must also be excluded.
This results in $6 million or $0.16 per share of net income to the quarter when the Optokon sale is excluded.
In last year's fourth quarter results if we exclude the $300 000 of restructuring charges the net income attributable to Methode would have been $16.4 million or $0.45 per share.
Therefore net income from continuing operations was $6 million this quarter compared to $16.4 million in last year's quarter or $0.16 earnings per share this quarter versus $0.45 per share last year.
You should note that in both this and last year's fourth quarters we recorded income tax benefits.
Excluding the sale of Optokon the benefit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 was $8 million or $0.22 per share greater than the current quarter.
For the fiscal year we reported net income attributable to Methode of $19.5 million or $0.52 per share.
This compares to a net income attributable to Methode of $13.7 million or $0.37 per share last fiscal year.
Excluding the $2.1 million expense for the Blue Angel settlement the negotiated program termination charge of $1.3 million recorded in the second quarter the $600 000 net gain and the $3.5 million intra-period allocation benefit from the sale of Optokon the current fiscal year net income attributable to Methode would be $18.7 million or $0.49 per share.
If last year's results excluded the negative effect of $7.8 million of restructuring charges and the favorable effect of reversing a $1.7 million onetime pricing accrual last fiscal year's net income would have been $17.8 million or $0.48 per share.
Therefore on a non-GAAP basis net income attributable to Methode was $18.7 million in the current fiscal year compared to $17.8 million last year or $0.49 per share this year versus $0.48 per share last year.
Moving to cost of products sold.
In the current quarter cost of products sold as a percent of sales was 78.3% compared to 76.7% last year.
The comparison would have been better except for a few unusual items.
In the current quarter we had vendor supply issues and the new product launch of $300 000.
We also had $700 000 in incrementally higher costs related to design and development costs for the GM center stack program.
For the fiscal year cost of products sold as a percentage of sales was 79.2% compared to 78.8% last year.
As with the fourth quarter the comparisons would have been better except for the vendor supply issues on the new product launch of $2.3 million a negotiated program cancellation charge of $1.3 million that occurred in the second quarter the $1.2 million incrementally higher costs related to the General Motors center stack program and also a customer cancellation charge of $400 000 in the Power Products segment that occurred earlier in the year.
Moving to selling and administrative.
In the current quarter selling and administrative as a percentage of sales was 16.8% compared to 15.9% last year.
This quarter's selling and administrative expense included about $1 million higher stock award amortization partially offset by lower Delphi legal expense of about $300 000.
In the fiscal year selling and administrative as a percent of sales was 16.5% both this year and last year.
If the Blue Angel settlement of $2.1 million was excluded selling and administrative as a percent of sales would have been 16% this year which is below last year's 16.5%.
This year -- this fiscal year's selling and administrative expense also included $2.1 million higher stock award amortization partially offset by lower Delphi legal expense of about $1.1 million.
Again as I mentioned last quarter on the stock award amortization that we expect the charge to be in the range of $800 000 to $900 000 per quarter.
The reason for that is the prior year's expense had very little stock award amortization because of the cancellation of several of the agreements due to the impact of the prior restructuring and impairment charges taken in prior years.
Just finally on operating cash during the fiscal year we generated $17 million of cash from operating activities.
This was about $10.3 million less than last year and it included a $13.1 million federal tax refund for net operating loss carryback that was received in the third quarter.
This refund offset an increase in working capital that primarily resulted from the increased sales activities.
And additionally in order to protect the supply chain we are also carrying a higher inventory for certain components that have been in short supply.
Don that concludes my remarks.
Thank you very much Doug.
Diego we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
It's Joe Vruwink on for David.
A question on engineering as we go forward.
If I look at just SG&amp;A the past few quarters and I strip out what the Delphi legal fees were it looks like expenses have been between call it 15.5% 16% of revenue.
I'm just wondering going forward is this a good base that is sustainable given the engineers that you've brought on? Or should we expect higher levels going forward? First of all the engineering expense that Don was talking about Joe are going to be in cost of products sold.
So the additional expense in selling and administrative is primarily coming from the increased stock amortization.
Okay and there's no product launch costs that are going to hit SG&amp;A? No there shouldn't be.
It should all be up in cost of goods sold.
Okay great.
And then as we look at the pace of that ramp have you brought on basically the human assets that you need where going forward we shouldn't expect that much deviation from what we are seeing now? Or what are the magnitude of costs we should expect in upcoming quarters during this fiscal year? We probably have seen the bulk of that.
I wouldn't rule out that we wouldn't add a few more heads as the launch progresses particularly as we get closer to launch.
But I think the estimate we gave we gave a range for the year in the $2.5 million to $2.8 million I believe.
Okay great that's helpful.
If I switch over to a piece of new business you announced this quarter with the lithium-ion battery that seems like an exciting product category that we haven't really heard you guys talk about that much in the past.
It seems like this technology is also transferable to other battery applications.
Are you in discussions with other OEMs about doing a similar product where you're able to leverage the R&amp;D investments you've made to win this award on potential future awards? Yes we've been talking to a number of them.
This is the first I think major award; we've gotten a few prototypes that we've done.
What's driving that is Methode's in somewhat of a unique position in that we've been in power products for quite some time and we are a seasoned automotive supplier.
So as the automakers and the Tier 1s look for qualified suppliers we're a qualified supplier in both instances and that gives us a little bit of a leg up in pursuing that business.
And we're starting to see as these vehicles come online we're starting to see that market heat up.
And this is exclusively developed -- I should say internally developed IT or is this anything that may have come from Eetrex? Well in the award we just announced that is a homegrown Methode technology.
And it's like a typical automotive program where it's -- the actual design is done between Methode and the customer.
The charger is Eetrex's but this particular award is Methode technology.
Great and then just one final question.
There's been a little bit of negative publicity in regards to the MyFord Touch product itself and the basic interface I guess.
Have you -- has there been any changes on Ford's part of maybe wishing to alter some of the aspects of the console system itself? And how is what GM is designing changed by some of these early kind of press reviews and consumer reviews of the product? Okay on the Ford product no we've not been asked to make any changes to the product.
From our standpoint the product is still selling above our expectations.
And I can't speak for Ford but I think they've been happy with the sales as well.
And that article now is what several months old.
And then the GM launch there's very little touch cells on that so -- and I can't go too much detail because we're -- GM hasn't announced platforms and so on.
But there's very little Touch on the GM program right now.
I suppose that could change.
Yes.
And that criticism seems to be more focused to the software the sync not to our Touch.
Yes good point.
I mean we provide the center console not the interface -- or the software rather.
Our next question comes from Jeremy Hellman with Divine Capital Markets.
I wanted to take the last question and kind of -- as kind of a framing basis.
And if I think at a really high level is there a way to kind of quantify the amount of product that you could supply to an all-electric vehicle versus an internal combustion-engine vehicle versus a hybrid and/or something that's using stop/start? Or maybe if you can't quantify can you rank those from 1 to 4 which ones would offer the most penetration potential if you want to call it that for Methode products? Okay.
The pure electric is going to have the highest content if you really talk dollar content because an onboard charger is several thousand dollars.
I mean in low volume it's $15 000 $20 000 but -- so that would probably be ranked #1.
You would also -- you could also put our busbar technology I just talked about on the battery pack.
Eetrex is developing battery management systems so there's some more technology there.
We certainly could do the -- and we have a product coming out on -- the charging station.
So that would be my highest.
The hybrid you might get into busbars again probably or maybe a battery disconnect or something that Eetrex would do.
And then you were talking about -- I'm assuming your question's talking about not switches and so on you're talking about power components.
Is that correct Jeremy? Well I'm really talking full boat everything you could potentially sell whether or not you're in there selling something or not but the "addressable market" per vehicle.
Oh boy.
I mean what I'm trying to get to is and obviously we're in the early stages of the EV evolution.
But if we look out 5 10 years and if EV adoption rates do progress nicely and EVs become a significant component of the vehicle fleet at the end of the day does that -- what I'm thinking and it sounds like you're confirming this is that your dollar sales per vehicle should certainly have an upward bias.
Oh yes I would agree with that.
But even on a conventional vehicle we've got our central console products you've got our torque sensor product steering angle sensor lead frames that are in the transmission.
So that content will also go up.
Right okay.
And when you think about the design cycle for autos and considering that this is a multiyear process when you look at potential business that you might be pursuing for the '14 '15 '16-type years are you seeing any kind of gravitation to a heavier EV component or proportion? No I don't think -- it's going to be a small percentage even as you get into '15 '16 '17.
I mean as we said before we're done booking for '14.
We're booking for '15 and beyond now.
And I don't know what the estimates the market estimates are for EVs but they're still a small portion as we get into the latter years here.
Okay.
And then with stop/start that seems to be more the immediate sweet spot because it doesn't really have a big impact at all on the actual consumer behavior so to speak.
It's under the hood and out of sight.
With stop/start how much of an opportunity is that for you guys even if you have vehicles where you have kind of a dual-battery system? Again just in the power components at this point we don't have anything booked in start/stop.
Okay.
I'll go for something a little more germane now.
Back to the non-GAAP reconciliation Doug okay I just wanted to run through that again the notes I -- wanted to make sure I have my notes correct.
From your headline number of $0.26 to adjust down to the $0.16 non-GAAP number I'm missing something.
Is that a negative $0.02 from the sale of Optokon and then a negative $0.16 to the tax effect? So that would get me down $0.26 minus $0.02 minus $0.16 would get me down to $0.08.
So what am I missing there? No there's $0.11 because what you've got is the tax credit of $3.5 million that's in the continuing operations so that large income tax credit that is there.
Then that's offset by the gain.
Okay.
I'll work through the numbers and if it isn't clear I'll follow up with you offline then.
Okay that should work out.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Greg Macosko with Lord Abbett.
Can we go through just a little bit on the gross margin to understand the adjustment relative to the growth in the Auto and the Power area? Auto was up 38% year-over-year.
And you mentioned the vendor supply issue of $2.3 million.
That was for the entire year or is there an adjustment there just for the quarter? No there was -- the $2.3 million was for the full year and then there was $300 000 in the quarter.
And going forward we're saying that could have a $1.5 million to $2.5 million effect full year fiscal '12.
That is -- is that relative to the GM launch? Well that's relative to the GM launch because you want to get yourself internally supplying the product internally.
Right that is -- the current issue is with the MyFord Touch panels that we're providing.
We -- at the time that we booked that Ford business in late '08 I think Automotive was in free fall.
So we didn't vertically integrate at the time.
When we were pursuing the GM business before we even booked it we knew that we would probably vertically integrate that.
There's pretty good savings in doing it.
All we're doing now is really accelerating that because of the supply issues.
I see.
But that's a 9- to 12-month process so that's why we're saying we'll enter fiscal '13 with that integrated.
Okay.
And what other adjustments are there? There was some new launch costs.
You said higher manufacturing costs and I assume those are ongoing or are they -- is the launch making kind of a ramp-up of the launch kind of raising the cost that as you get more comfortable with the volumes on the launch will be -- the margins should be better? I think what we said was higher designing development and engineering costs.
I don't think we said manufacturing.
No the only manufacturing issues we've been discussing is the vendor supply that's causing us some issues.
Okay but those new development new product development that's really an SG&amp;A line isn't it? No we're showing those in cost of goods sold.
That's -- we're developing a product that is booked so those costs to get that business launched are in cost of goods sold.
And Greg that's in the -- again looking at the full year those costs are about $1.2 million for the year.
All right.
Well you see what I'm asking just trying to understand with such strong revenue on the top line and yes adjusting for the vendor supply issue and the product development costs are we looking at something around 16%? Does that make sense on an ongoing basis? Or do you expect that gross margin to improve in the Auto area? While Doug’s looking at that the other point we made is that full year gross margins were negatively affected by the loss of the Delphi business.
Yes.
But in the quarter last year did you have Delphi business last year in the fourth quarter? I don't believe so.
No we did not.
No we did not Right that's what I'm trying to get at is kind of the current comparison between the 2.
You said Delphi x Delphi for the whole year I guess you were up 32%.
So you had good solid growth of non-Delphi business.
And are we kind of at a -- is this kind of the auto run rate now? Or what are we looking at? I think if I'm looking at my numbers right we're at about 15 1/2% for the fourth quarter this year.
And I think we've said that we expect our gross margins in Automotive to improve.
We know as we launch some of these programs we'll get some very positive effect from that.
And does that imply that -- continued strong sales growth? Right.
And those are programs that really don't kick off until the latter part of '12 and '13.
And in '13 yes.
I think we have -- we don't have them in front of us but I think we've put out our ranges for Automotive gross margins.
What is that again? Remind me please.
I don't want to misquote so I want to make sure we have the number.
We're looking that up and if we don't have it here we'll get back to you on that.
Yes.
But my recollection was for Auto I think we said high teens to low 20s for Automotive.
We’ll take the risk of misquoting.
Okay very good.
All right.
And then the same on the Power.
The Power is up 35% you're just getting those new orders into production that's up 35%.
There was what about 200 basis points from that onboard integrated power unit in the electric truck being launched or whatever.
But the gross margin comparison was quite a bit down.
Is that a gross margin we should be looking at at these sales levels at present? The Power gross margin was down because of the Eetrex.
Was that the -- in other words it was 22% versus 33%.
It was a pretty big drop and yet sales were up 35% so I just want to understand the...
Right.
We've got $600 000 $700 000 in launch costs for the charger unit.
And that should be a to some degree a onetime event.
It will continue into our fiscal '12 here.
But once the product is developed it's developed and that won't be reoccurring.
So what we've got is the cost to develop and launch the product and no sales right now.
So as the product sells the margins will certainly improve and our development costs will wind down.
Okay.
So I mean -- and if we look at the same basis on Power what's your range of gross margin expectation on Power? Let me get that to you because we just don't have that investor presentation.
All right.
Basically I was just looking at the change over that.
And the $600 000 to $700 000 doesn't account for that 11% differential right? It's more than that I would -- that's bigger than the $600 000 to $700 000 doesn't account for the 1 100 basis points right? Okay.
We just brought up the what we call our fiscal 2014 target.
For Power the gross margins are in the high 20s.
Auto we're saying low to mid-20s.
Before you ask about Interconnect low to mid-30s.
Okay.
Well we're right there.
We're pretty good as you've said.
Again but that's our fiscal 2014 target.
So we're going to -- those gross margins are going to stay where they are basically? I mean that's what -- you're already there you're at 34%.
You're pretty close to where you're...
Yes and you have to -- it's affected quite a bit by mix.
I mean that’s… Okay so the mix was favorable right now? The mix on Interconnect was very favorable for us so that gets to the high end of our range.
Okay all right very good.
I just want to keep up on kind of where we're headed and what our expectations are particularly on the gross margin side and that gives me some explanation.
And the new wins do sound good.
Our next question comes from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
A quick follow-up from me.
If I look at what you've done the past 4 quarters now and I put in a normalized tax rate you're pretty much ranging between $0.10 to $0.15 a share per quarter.
Given that the stock seems pretty much stuck in a call it $0.10 to $0.14 range I'm wondering what gets us above this call it $0.15 a share going forward? Or is that a level that you would expect to be maintained during this upcoming fiscal quarter given that the significant new business doesn't launch till fiscal 2013 and you're going to have some costs it sounds like in fiscal 2012 associated with that business? Joe it sounds like you're trying to get us to give you guidance.
I don't know that we want to comment.
I wouldn't think of doing that.
I think we've laid out in our release and prepared comments that we have some costs that we are incurring to launch these new programs.
And you know the automotive cycle so we're really saying that these programs start to launch end of '12 and '13 and then from that you probably can model where we're headed.
I think to go any further I'm getting into the guidance area and I just -- I'd like to stay away from that.
Ladies and gentlemen there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the conference back over to Mr.
Duda to conclude.
Thank you.
Diego thank you very much and we'll thank everyone for listening today and wish them a very safe and pleasant holiday.
Good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you all for your participation.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2012 First Quarter Earnings Presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the Securities Laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large Automotive customers; dependence on the Automotive appliance computer and communications industries; further downturns in the Automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain Automotive customers; Automotive program launches may be delayed or have lower than anticipated volumes; ability to compete effectively customary risks related to conducting in global operations; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; the usage of a significant amount of our cash and resources to launch new North American Automotive programs; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; currency fluctuation; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; unfavorable tax laws; ability to implement and profit from newly acquired technology; and the future trading price of our stock.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and CEO of Methode Electronics.
Thank you.
Mr.
Duda you may begin.
Thank you Christine and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2012 first quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
Our 2 business segments have showed year-over-year higher sales in fourth quarter of 2011 namely Automotive and Power Products continue to experience revenue improvement in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
These results reflect the impact of our new product introductions and higher market penetration.
On a consolidated basis net sales grew nearly 12% to $111 million driven by organic growth in our North American and Asian Automotive businesses improved safety rating remote control sales in both Europe and Asia and increased power product demand in North America as well as Asia.
We continue to rebuild Methode's revenue from a 6-year low of $378 million in fiscal 2010 despite the reduction of legacy Automotive products and the unplanned loss of the Delphi business.
On the earnings front we posted net income of $1.5 million or $0.04 per share compared to $4.1 million or $0.11 per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
As we detailed in the press release this morning there were a number of items which negatively affected our net income Doug will address each of these in more details in a few minutes.
However I'd like to discuss the 2 major items that have impacted our results.
First costs related to the vendor production delivery issues as well as cost related to the design development and launch of 2 large Automotive programs; and secondly the new product development expenses in our Power Products segment.
In total these costs lowered our first quarter net income by approximately $2.4 million or $0.06 per share.
Let me address these items.
As we announced in our release this morning we intend to acquire an injection molding and painting operation.
This acquisition will be a key step in mitigating the vendor production and delivery issues.
As we discussed last quarter the vertical integration of this critical process is expected to reduce costs improve quality and mitigate certain supply risks experienced during the past few quarters.
We intend to close the acquisition in September and complete the integration of the operation by the end of fiscal 2012.
That being said we anticipate the vendor production and delivery issues will impact net income by approximately $2 million for the remainder of fiscal 2012.
The $1.2 million costs related to the design development and launch of 2 large Automotive programs are for the additional T-76 business in North America which will launch in the second half of this fiscal year and represents about half of the cost and for the General Motors center console program which will launch in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 and represent the other half of the expense in the quarter.
We anticipate the design development and launch costs for these Automotive programs will be approximately $1.8 million for the balance of fiscal 2012.
We are however anticipating revenue of $5 million to $7 million from the North American T-76 program in the second half of this fiscal year ramping to $18 million to $20 million in fiscal 2013.
The launch of this program was delayed about 6 months by our customer.
As with the General Motors program we anticipate revenue of $5 million to $8 million in fourth quarter fiscal 2013 ramping to approximately $100 million in fiscal 2014.
Together these 2 programs will improve our North American Automotive sales fourfold by fiscal 2014.
In our Power Products segment the development costs for the Eetrex on board integrator power unit was approximately $0.6 million for the first quarter and is estimated to be $1.4 million for the remainder of fiscal 2012.
You may recall that this unit is for a fuel electric truck and is anticipated to launch in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year with revenue of approximately $500 000.
This launch was also delayed.
More importantly this investment will result in a suite of products applicable to a wide variety of applications ranging from e-vans to stationary power systems.
For the first quarter consolidated gross margins were 18.1% compared to 19.7% a year ago.
As I just discussed vendor production and delivery issues as well as the higher design development engineering costs negatively impacted the results.
As I stated in the past we see the opportunity for meaningful improvement in our margins once the vertical integration project is complete and we reach full launch of the aforementioned programs.
Turning to a review of our individual segments.
In the first quarter Automotive segment net sales increased over 25% due to higher sales from the MyFord Touch center console program as well as in our transmission lead frame and steering angle sensor products.
Automotive segment gross margins decreased in the first quarter impacted by the vendor issues and costs related to the launch of the 2 large Automotive programs.
Additionally the majority of the increase in sales is from the Ford center console program which is not only experiencing its prior issue but currently carries a higher prime costs which reduces the program's overall margin.
The higher prime is due to the higher purchase content which will be negated by the vertical integration of the molding and painting process that I discussed earlier.
Again our target gross margins for Automotive is in the low to mid-20s.
Interconnect sales decreased over 6% in the first quarter compared to last year attributable mainly to lower appliance sales in North America as well as the sale of Optokon the small fiber-optic business in the Czech Republic.
These lower sales were partially offset by increased sales of safety remote control products in Europe and in Asia.
As we mentioned last quarter we anticipate reduced appliance sales will continue through fiscal 2012.
Despite lower business levels Interconnect margins for the first quarter improved over the first quarter of last year due primarily to a favorable sales mix.
Our Power Products segment also improved sales up 11% in the first quarter.
Our products gross margin decreased from the first quarter mainly due to product development costs for the on board integrator power unit as well as  business mix which consisted of more telecom business which has lower margin and less military and aerospace business which has higher margins.
On the design wins and business development fronts we booked several smaller programs utilizing our core technologies for approximately $6.5 million in average annual revenue which shores up our ongoing base business and as such should not be added to our projections.
Finally as we mentioned in our press release this morning during the first quarter we saw the beginning of a slowdown in our European Automotive segment likely the effect of the European debt crisis.
In line with these economic conditions we have implemented actions to reduce our selling general and administrative expenses in Europe.
We believe we will see a positive effect of about $500 000 of income from these actions on our results beginning the fourth quarter of this fiscal year.
As I've mentioned in previous calls on our way to record revenue in fiscal 2014 some of our quarters are going to be choppy.
However we are moving closer to the launch of two significant Automotive programs with one launching in the second half of this fiscal year.
Additionally we are close to resolving our vendor issue which will not only eliminate those costs but also improve margins on our Ford product.
While we anticipate volatility in our short-term margins and earnings through fiscal 2012 we will continue to take the necessary actions to meet or exceed our margin targets.
Now I'll turn the call over to Doug who will provide further detail on our financial results.
Doug? Good morning everyone.
Let me briefly review the results of our reporting segments.
In Automotive we had first quarter sales of $62.7 million up from $50 million last year.
North American sales were up 123% primarily due to the launch of the Ford center console program.
We also saw a 19% increase in sales in Asia as primarily related to increased sales of the transmission lead-frame and steering angle sensor products.
The increase in Europe was primarily due to the strengthening of the euro versus the USD.
In the quarter the currency translation increased foreign sales by approximately $2.6 million.
In the first quarter Automotive gross margins were $9.3 million compared to $10.1 million last year.
As a percentage of sales gross margins decreased to 14.8% this quarter compared to 20.2% last year.
Gross margin percentage was negatively impacted by $1.2 million for the cost related to design development and launch of programs in North America also $600 000 for costs related to vendor production and delivery issues.
We also had increased sales of product that currently has high prime costs due to the high purchased content.
And lastly we are starting to see a higher utility cost in Malta due to increased caused of fuel used to generate electricity.
Selling and administrative expense for Automotive in the quarter was $7.1 million compared to $7.2 million in last year's quarter.
As a percentage of sales selling and administrative was 11.3% compared to 14.4% last year.
The current quarter we had lower Delphi legal expense by $600 000.
However this was offset by higher non-executive performance-based compensation.
In the Interconnect segment we had sales of $32.4 million in the first quarter which is down from $34.6 million last year.
In North America the decrease is due to weaker sales in the white goods market partially offset by higher sales of data and safety radio remote control products.
In Europe we had higher sales of data and remote control products partially offset by no optical sales due to the sale of Optokon in the fourth quarter of last year.
Optokon was our Czech Republic optical business.
The increase in Asia was due primarily to sales of remote control devices.
In the quarter there was negligible currency translation effect on Interconnect segment sales.
Gross margins for the Interconnect segment were $9.2 million both this quarter and last quarter -- last year's quarter.
As a percentage of sales gross margin improved to 28.4% from 26.6% last year.
The increase in gross margins as a percentage of sales is due primarily to a favorable change in the sales mix to a higher margin products.
Selling and administrative expense was $4.9 million this quarter compared to $5.4 million in last year's quarter.
As a percentage of sales selling and administrative was 15.1% compared to 15.6% last year.
The decrease is due to the selling and administrative expense for Optokon.
This was partially offset by a higher net debt expense in the segment.
Power Products segment sales were $12.8 million this year compared to $11.5 million in last year's quarter.
We saw an increase in demand for bus part products in North America and Asia.
And in Asia we saw increase for telecom business.
Gross margins in the Power Products segment were $2 million in the current quarter compared to $2.3 million last year.
As a percentage of sales gross margins decreased to 15.6% in the quarter compared to 20% last year.
The percentage decrease is due to higher telecom sales which has lower gross margins and the other industrial and aerospace business as I mentioned earlier.
Also included in the gross margins we had about $600 000 for design development and engineering of the on board charger for the electric truck.
Selling and administrative expense is $1.8 million both this quarter and last year.
As a percentage of sales it was 14.1% this year compared to 15.7% last year.
We had increased product development expense in North America which was offset by lower non-executive performance-based compensation.
The other segment had first quarter sales of $2.9 million.
This is up slightly from $2.8 million last year.
The increase is due to higher sales of the magnetic sensing products.
The testing labs which are also in this segment were flat.
Gross margin was about $300 000 in the current quarter compared to $100 000 last year.
The increase is due to the higher sales and also a favorable mix of business in our Magnetic Sensing business.
Selling and administrative expense is $1.3 million in the quarter for the other segment compared to $700 000 last year.
The increase is primarily due to a higher performance-based compensation and severance expense.
Before I turn it back to Don I'd like to comment on the cash flow statement.
You'll note that the increase in cash and cash equivalents are due to the $27 million borrowed under our credit facility.
Over the last few years we've seen a shift in earnings and cash generation shifting from the U.S.
to our foreign operations.
While we expect this trend to ship back as we launch new programs in the U.S.
we will need to continue to borrow against the credit facility especially for the vertical integration of a paint and laser etch processes.
In the meantime we will continue to evaluate tax efficient ways to repatriate cash back to the U.S.
Donald that concludes my remarks.
Thank you very much.
Christine we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
I wanted to start to just put something in perspective and know the seasonality in the business going from here fourth quarter versus first quarter.
Will you look at that and the margins? Can you adjust for some of these extra costs that you're incurring right now? How would you say the performance of that sequentially was relative to what we've seen in past years? In general the fourth quarter is a better revenue quarter than the first really July.
I would say that sales probably the past 2 years have been -- not as impacted by the seasonality as in the past.
I mean we're still doing changeovers in July but it's not as significant I think.
Okay.
And then the European slowdown that sounds a little different than what we've been seeing and the production rates has been pretty strong.
What exposure do you have? What OEs are you primarily shipping to in the European market today? I know Ford is fairly large.
In the part of Europe we've got Volkswagen Fiat a little bit of Peugeot.
Those would -- and then a couple of the premiums Aston.
I would say that would be the largest premium there.
But BMW and Mercedes were just really driving the upside volume.
There's nothing to Mercedes.
Okay.
So the mix the -- your customer mix there...
It's enough for us to take note and take some string of actions.
We know that Malta has a number of launches coming up next fiscal year so the revenues will increase.
I just -- I don't want to be caught offguard there.
I understand.
I mean we've been cautious in Europe and have been surprised by the export volumes and the books you're listing there other than Volkswagen really don't have a lot of export business so you're not benefiting from that.
And then as we look at these items that you've listed in terms of impacting the numbers and can you give us some insights for the balance of the year as it relates to the launch costs of vendor production problems and the Ford products.
The other items those presumably are the same roughly at those levels or is there some characterization we should look at in terms of what those numbers are going to look like going forward.
In particular David which...
The compensation related ones the non-executive performance bonuses on the stock awards.
Yes.
I think going forward you want to see the -- it was just a -- converting year-over-year we have some anomalies that we don't expect to continue the rest of the year.
I think also if you look at the -- we commented on the higher stock award amortization expense it was Q2 of last year the new long-term incentive Plan as awarded so as we start looking at the second quarter year-over-year you shouldn't see that delta.
So that one goes away.
And obviously the other item that we mentioned that doesn't reoccur is in last year's quarter.
We benefited from some life insurance gain so.
And then the last item and I'll circle back here.
As we look at from the onboard charger investment costs here in terms of engineering lab.
I mean those numbers seem to be running higher than what I believe you were talking about last quarter on that.
It's the scale of that it's getting larger that the investment is becoming larger or do we just misunderstand that? The overall opportunity is getting larger.
I don't -- one particular one that we announced I don't think that is getting larger from what we've announced in previous calls.
That launch has been delayed.
So I think what you're -- we are shipping product not at the rate that we expected so we're not absorbing those costs into costs of goods sold the way we had planned on so the costs are up but I think more importantly that's a one-time product that will result of the suite of products that's applicable to a number of applications.
So we're not pleased that we're not at the full launch yet and we're still incurring cost but we are pleased with the progress we've made technically.
What does that pipeline look for new awards on that charter going forward? I really don't want to say yet.
We've had a lot of I'd say preliminary conversations with other OEs.
So right now that's the only 10 kilowatt charger out there that is Automotive grade.
But all of those I would say -- are I won't say embryonic but enough that I don't really want to trend up.
David just go back on the expense.
Keep in mind that our investment in key tracks is now at 80% so it started much lower than we were only picking up a lower percentage from prior quarters.
And then Don you said 10-kilowatt charger here.
What are the other charges? What's the size of the other chargers? 6 kilowatt we've seen.
Does that cut that charge time in half? Theoretically yes.
And this is going on an E-van so the battery bank is also larger.
Our next question comes from Jeremy Hellman with Divine Capital Markets.
First question for me about the business that you're acquiring on the vertical integration couple questions on that.
First off is that a completely independent company where you're acquiring the totality of it or is that a division from someone or is it altogether? And then secondly on that you mentioned the need to add some additional equipment.
Is that a function of increasing the capacity of that operation or just filling in some missing pieces? I can probably can answer the second one.
But your I think -- the first question let us get that closed and we will do a release on and then answer those questions.
I'm uncomfortable giving too much information.
We wanted to put it in the release because it's significant and that we are on our way to solving that problem.
Anyway we're anticipating closing it very shortly here.
I really can't provide too much detail until we close it but to answer your second question there is some additional capital that we're going to put in mainly because of the type of painting we're going to be doing it certainly makes our capital expenditure less and helps us with our timing but there is some equipment that still needs to be put and that would be on the painting side.
And so that $27 million you drew on the revolver is that going to be sufficient to close the transaction and also provide for the working capital needs you're anticipating or is that just a first tranche if you will? Yes Jeremy that should be sufficient.
But again as we roll out and it requires some new equipment to supplement the acquired equipment we may have increased the revolver.
The revolver though will really be more of a function of our ability to bring back cash from offshore and we do have some vehicles that are in place right now to bring in some of that cash.
So it will really be a borrowing where we really just depend on our ability to get cash back offshore and if that's sufficient there.
I want to bring it back and use up our NOL or pay taxes.
So that's driving that otherwise.
Otherwise this is something that if cash were all in the U.S.
we'd be able to handle that capital in without our borrowing.
Just going back to the fiscal 2014 trajectory I just want to make sure I've got all the moving pieces coming and going correctly.
You said once you get to fiscal '14 the GM program should add an incremental $100 million in revenue and then T-76 so that's $18 million to $20 million annually.
So if I kind of lump those 2 together take the high side that's $120 million fiscal '14 relative to fiscal '13.
I want to make sure I'm right on that.
And then second or kind of a second part of that are there any other programs that are going to be rolling off that will have a negative effect as we go from '13 to '14? Okay.
On the -- you're correct on the General Motors that's a significant add to '14.
If you subtract what we had in the fourth quarter of '13 which was around $8 million to $10 million in GM business.
But T-76 is a full launch in '13 so I wouldn't add that to '14.
I think '14 is incremental to put today that incremental to '14.
And I would refer back to the revenue model that we put out last fall that we will ultimately update here.
And that's where -- when we're talking about these launches that's really what we're referring back to.
I mean there's a bigger thing that I wanted to make sure I understood whether or not there were any other substantively sized platforms that essentially would be terminating or running down the end of '13.
So if I say okay there's $100 million delta from '13 to '14 roughly maybe subside that I would call it $90 for a more conservative number.
If there's a $90 million positive delta are there any other negative deltas of $10 million or 20 million due to an existing platform that is due to roll off there? Good question.
In those projections that we put out we took all that into account so the number that we show for '14 which is over $500 million.
That takes into account anything that's rolling off.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up question from David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Don as we look at the MyFord Touch launch you've got a couple of vehicles in production today.
I don't think that that competes with that award is in production yet.
Is that correct? No it's not.
And is the scale of that relative to the first one? Are those relatively equal in terms of revenue or is one larger than the other? I would say they're close to being equal.
And are you if you look at what your engineering costs are to bring that to market other than supplier issues they're dealing with just the engineering piece of it did that pretty much flow the way that you expected it to? The engineering? Yes.
Absolutely.
That was we had an issue with the vendor but the technology went exactly where we wanted it.
And then my sense is that that the take rates that Ford is seeing on that are pretty good.
It would imply that your revenue off of that is running higher than what you originally thought is that accurate? Yes it is and normally that's good news but when you got a supplier issue that works other way.
But it's running higher than the plan.
And are there -- is there any insight you can share as it relates to additional follow-on awards beyond those two? Nothing yet.
I don't think there's anything we could talk about.
Are you aware of them awarding similar type technology to other suppliers at this stage yet? No.
There's been center console business that's been -- led to other competitors but not that I know of with Touch.
It would be in capacitance.
We do know that keyless entry is capacitance and that was actually quite a while ago.
And then as we look at the capital spending we would have been thinking your capital spending would run $15 million $20 million a year or so.
It sound like that number is going to step up.
Can you give us some insight on where that number might end up this running this year? Sure David.
Just leaving the protocol integration separate.
We're at a run rate right now of $4.5 million.
That's probably a good run rate for the full year because we are in addition to our normal capital run rate we're looking at bringing in a plating process into the Power Products group in North America.
And we're also looking at bringing in some stamping/plating in Asia and bring some product that's currently outsourced.
That's with the T-76 business that I think you saw.
So with those we'll probably be close to -- closer to $19 million.
And than the vertical integration.
I don't think -- have you put a number on -- what that's going to cost you? I think roughly we might have mentioned a range.
I mean it depends on if we close a deal versus the transaction that Don talked about or we don't.
I mean that could be anywhere from an additional let's say $12 million to $17 million depending on whether we are able to acquire this business or not.
And the business you are looking at could you talk about what kind of products they're doing or what kind of business they're in today? You said you want the process but it sounds like there's a revenue stream that comes along with that as well.
Yes.
We really just can't talk about it now.
And first of all the deal is not done so if doesn't close it doesn't close.
And so it would be premature to give any detail.
And as Don said we will put out a release when we do close it and provide some information at that time.
And then the last item here.
You've been running margins other than this quarter and I think maybe it's up to the numbers probably in that 4% to 6% EBIT range and I think when this is all up and running it should be running closer to a 10% EBIT margin.
Is there some trajectory you can get us in terms of how we step up there a couple of small steps and then it's a larger step in 2014 when all of this is launched? Is there any thoughts you can give us in that regard? Well as we go through '13 we should see some meaningful improvement but '14 is really the larger year because of the GM launch.
But if you...
I'm looking qualitatively I'm not trying to pull numbers from you.
It is not a straight line to our margin projections.
As I said we're going to have some choppy quarters.
We're going to have some issues.
These programs are large Automotive programs.
The T-76 goes into transmission.
You saw the line in Shanghai.
So we're going to have some issues as we go forward.
But once you get to launch you're absorbing a lot of the costs that we're detailing here.
So if you overlay the launch with our numbers and so on you'll see the trajectory.
Do we solve the vendor issue by the end of the fourth quarter of this year or is it still over in the first quarter? We want to get it behind us before we enter '13 but that impact first quarter of '13 it could.
We're not planning on that.
This acquisition would certainly make that more likely because we don't have the greenfield.
But it sounds like some of these choppiness as you go through some of these issues and launches and investments that the choppiness in the numbers probably continues into the first half of calendar '12.
Do you think it carries into the second half of calendar '12? I know of nothing that would cause that but I'm cautiously optimistic because of the significant revenue ramp which is that's all good news but it's what I don't know that concerns me.
But again I mean we know how to launch product.
We know we're meeting the General Motors deliverables.
Our teams are doing an excellent job.
The T-76 launch in Mexico has gone really ahead of schedule.
The problem there is that our customer who's also brining up a plant has been behind.
So we certainly know how to launch these programs.
They're just big programs that can take some twists and turns.
But once they're launched they are launched.
And then the last item here is the balance of the -- I think your legacy products are pretty much rolled off because there's still some programs that go into play.
You're not really expecting any unusual cost as they go to end-of-life here are you over the next 18 12 -- 18 months? No.
We've got some service business left and I think some Honda Clock-Spring business.
That's not notable.
Mr.
Duda we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Okay.
Well Christine we'll thank everyone for joining us this morning and wish everyone a safe holiday.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics' Fiscal 2012 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speaks only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; further downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; ability to compete effectively; customary risks related to conducting global operations; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; ability to keep pace with rapid technology changes; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; the usage of a significant amount of our cash and resources to launch new North American automotive programs; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; unfavorable tax laws; ability to implement and profit from newly acquired technology; and the future trading price of our stock.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and CEO of Methode Electronics.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our Fiscal 2012 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
On a consolidated basis net sales grew over 7% in the second quarter and nearly 10% in the first half of fiscal 2012 compared to the same period last year.
The sales improvement was driven by organic growth in our North American and Asian Automotive business units as well as increased power product demand in North America as well as Asia.
These results reflect the impact of our new product introductions and higher market penetration.
Sales gains were partially offset by sales declines in our Interconnect segment a direct result of continued softness in the appliance market.
We posted second quarter net income of $0.3 million or $0.01 per share compared to a loss of $0.5 million or $0.01 per share in the second quarter of last year.
For the first half of fiscal 2012 we have net income of $1.8 million per share or $0.05 per share compared to $3.6 million or $0.10 per share in the comparable period last year.
For both periods of fiscal 2012 net income was negatively impacted by foreign income taxes.
In the fiscal 2012 second quarter income tax expense increased $1.4 million primarily related to income taxes on foreign profits and a foreign dividend on money we transferred out of China.
Also impacting net income and gross margins in both periods were design development and launch costs in both our Automotive and Power Products segments.
Vendor production and delivery issues and increased sales of products with a higher prime cost further affected North American Automotive income.
In total the development and launch costs and vendor charges lowered our second quarter net income by approximately $2.3 million or $0.06 per share and lowered our gross margin by 2 percentage points.
Now as I stated in the past we see the opportunity for meaningful improvement in our margins once the vertical integration project is complete and we reach full launch of a few major programs in fiscal 2014.
Some additional detail on the major items that impacted our results.
First we incurred costs related to the vendor production and delivery issue of $0.7 million in the second quarter.
As we announced in September we closed on the acquisition of an injection molding and painting operation in Monterrey Mexico.
This acquisition and the vertical integration of these critical processes will be a key step in mitigating the vendor issue.
We anticipate investing approximately $7.4 million in additional capital to complete the vertical integration process.
And again we believe this vertical integration will not only enhance quality mitigate supply risk but also improve our gross margins on the production of center consoles.
We are on track in attempt to complete the integration of the operation by the end of fiscal 2012.
That being said we anticipate the vendor production and delivery issues will impact net income by approximately $1.3 million for the remainder of fiscal 2012.
Secondly as I discussed last quarter our Ford center console program is not only experiencing a supplier issue but it currently carries a higher prime cost which reduces the program's overall gross margin.
The higher prime is due to the high purchase content which will be mitigated by the vertical integration of the molding and painting processes.
Third $1 million of costs related to the design development and launch of the General Motors center console program which we'll launch in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.
For this program we are anticipating revenue of approximately $9 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 ramping to approximately $100 million in fiscal 2014.
We anticipate these launch costs will be approximately $2 million for the remainder of 2012.
Finally in our Power Products segment development costs for Eetrex on board integrated power unit were approximately $0.6 million in the second quarter and are estimated to be $1.2 million for the remainder of fiscal 2012.
You may recall that this program is for a pure electric truck and is anticipated to launch in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year with revenue above $0.5 million.
More importantly this investment will result in a suite of products applicable to a wide variety of applications ranging from e-vans to stationary power systems.
Turning to our review of our individual segments in the second quarter Automotive segment net sales increased almost 21% and in the first half improved 23% due to higher sales from the Ford Center Console Program as well as from our transmission lead-frame and steering angle sensor product.
Advanced Molding and Decoration our recent acquisition contributed almost 44% of the North American Automotive sales increase in the second quarter and 30% of the North American Automotive sales increase in the first half.
Automotive segment gross margins decreased in the second quarter impacted by the vendor issue the higher prime cost for the Ford center console and the cost related to the launch of the GM center console program.
Again our target gross margin for Automotive is low to mid-20s.
Interconnect sales decreased over 13% in the second quarter and fell 10% in the first half compared to last year attributable mainly to lower appliance sales in North America as well as the sales of Optokon in April of this year.
These lower sales were partially offset by increased sales of data and safety remote control products.
As we mentioned last quarter we anticipate reduced appliance sales will continue through fiscal 2012.
Interconnect's gross margin fell in the second quarter and the first half due to lower sales for white goods again as a direct result of continued softening in the appliance market.
Our Power Product segment had improved sales up 14% in the second quarter and 12% in the first half.
Power Products gross margins decreased in the second quarter and first half mainly due to the development cost I discussed earlier and in fact it would have been over 23% for the second quarter if we exclude the development costs.
Moving to an update on our revenue projections in November we presented at the Baird Industrial Conference where we provided an updated revenue chart for fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2015.
The presentation has been filed as an 8-K and is also available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I want to stress that the revenue charts represents booked and base business not just revenue goals.
It shows that Methode is poised to exceed its fiscal 2008 historical revenue high of $551 million in fiscal 2014.
So how are we going to move from fiscal 2011 revenues of $428 million to $555 million in fiscal 2014? Through all the awards we have announced in our quarterly conference calls.
In the presentation we made in November we summarized the major awards we have announced that our rebuilding Methode's revenue stream for fiscal 2013 and beyond.
These awards are on top of our base business of which I should point out about 2% to 4% goes end-of-life each year.
As a review here are the major awards for fiscal 2013 revenue: approximately $15 million from the second award of the Ford center console; approximately $9 million from the General Motors integrated center stack; approximately $14 million from Nissan-Renault busbars for electric vehicles; and approximately $15 million from the recent acquisition of the Monterrey Mexico molder and decorative painter.
For fiscal 2014 revenue approximately $100 million from the General Motors integrated center stack; an additional $4 million from Nissan-Renault busbars for electric vehicles; approximately $8 million from Volkswagen ergonomic switches; and approximately $8 million from premium vehicles ergonomic switches for Jaguar and McLaren.
Now let me summarize some of the design wins and business awards we received in the second quarter which are included in the updated revenue chart.
We booked an additional vehicle platform which will utilize the General Motors center stack we had previously announced for an additional $12 million in annual revenues for 4 years.
The original program will launch in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 while this platform will be incremental to that beginning in fiscal 2015.
Our Power Solutions group has booked an award for an overmolded power busbar for Magna E-Car.
Magna is supplying power electronic modules for electric vehicles.
This program will launch in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year.
The group also booked laminated busbars and power interconnects for Rockwell.
This product also launches in the fourth quarter.
Both customers are key accounts for us and we anticipate future bookings.
Together these awards represent approximately $4 million in annual revenue and again have been included in the revenue chart.
The program life is 4 to 5 years.
In summary we continue to move closer to the launch of our automotive programs with the additional T-76 program launching in the second half of this fiscal year.
Moreover we are making significant progress on the vertical integration.
Our awards in the vertical integration will not only lead to improved revenue but also the margin improvement beginning in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year.
Now I'll turn the call over to Doug who will provide further details regarding our results.
Doug? Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone.
I'm going to keep my comments brief today since we've provided sufficiently detailed information about the items affecting our consolidated and segment results in both the earnings release and the 10-Q and many of those items were also covered in Don's remarks.
Again just to restate for the second quarter we reported net income of $300 000 or $0.01 per share compared to a net loss of $0.5 million or $0.01 per share in last year's quarter.
One of the items that negatively impacted the quarter was a $900 000 tax expense for a $17 million dividend paid from our China subsidiary to our Singapore subsidiary.
We did this basically to reduce the amount of cash concentration in China but we did need to record a tax expense for that event.
On an earnings before income tax basis the second quarter was very similar to the first quarter.
The gross margin percent was 18.1% in Q1 and 18% in Q2.
Sequentially we saw an improvement in SG&amp;A as a percent of sales.
Q1 was 16.8% and Q2 was 15.8%.
This was due in part to the increase in sales but also the first quarter had included severance costs that negatively impacted the first quarter SG&amp;A percent by about 0.5%.
For the 6-month period we reported net income of $1.8 million or $0.05 per share.
This compares to $3.6 million or $0.10 per share in last year's 6-month period.
Again the release goes into detailed information about the positives and negatives affecting the year-to-date consolidated and segment results so I won't repeat them here.
I would like to point out however that the first quarter's tax expense benefited from a $1.1 million grant received in Malta.
So this nearly offsets the $900 000 tax expense recorded in the second quarter related to a foreign tax dividend.
So looking at our credit facility.
During the 6-month period we borrowed $36.5 million on that line.
Currently most of our cash located outside the United States.
While we expect to eventually generate cash in the U.S.
primarily through future domestic operations it will be necessary to continue to borrow from either our foreign affiliates or under the credit facility for the near term.
For the 6-month period we burned $18.4 million.
This included $9.1 million on capital expenditures $6.6 million for the acquisition of the Anhydro assets an additional $1.1 million additional investment in Eetrex to bring our ownership up to 90% with the balance coming from unfavorable working capital changes.
During the 6-month period we recorded minimal foreign exchange loss less than $200 000 even though the euro fluctuated about 12% during the 6-month period.
This was primarily due to a very careful cash management of our foreign currency assets and liabilities.
Just finally on operating cash during the first 6 months we generated $1.7 million cash from operating activities.
However this was $2.1 million less than last year primarily due to lower net income higher stock award amortization of $1.4 million and $700 000 unfavorable working capital change.
So with that then that'll conclude my remarks.
Thank you Doug.
Jackie we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from David Leiker of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe on the line for David.
Just to dig in to some of the cost items during the quarter and none of them are new but I'm just trying to get a sense of the cadence going forward.
With the vendor supply and delivery costs and you expect about $1.3 million in the second half I'm just wondering that's going to equal what you did in the first half and given you went out and acquired Nypro is there something with that contract or your agreement with your supplier where those costs don't moderate through the second half of the year? No it's just our -- the time to really set up the processes gain approval from our customer and launch it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then...
So you can't -- I mean it's timing.
Yes it’s not turnkey necessarily.
No you wouldn't – well in Automotive it takes a while to move product around.
It needs a fair amount of approvals from the customer so that takes time.
But also we needed to buy additional equipment have that delivered set it up.
I can tell you that we ran our first part but that's just a start.
We are on schedule but I think we’ve said all along that won't abate itself until the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the launch and development costs for the GM program by my calculation you're over $2 million on that and you've been talking about $3 million for the year.
So are you expecting a step down in those costs during the back half? We said $2 million to the balance of the year? Yes.
So I’d say that’s going to continue going up until launch but that's anticipated in the guidance that we've given.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was thinking it was $3 million for the year and you're already over $2 million.
Yes I think may have said early on estimated was $3 million but I think it looks like it just might be a little bit higher than but might that -- like the -- it's factored into our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Eetrex it looks like you're going to when your -- all is said and done what you've guided to you're going to be close to $10 million in costs related to developing that charger and right now you have one contract that's for $10 million and fully -- kind of fully launched annualized revenues.
So I'm just wondering do you have some sort of return expectation for the $10 million or so that you've invested in the product that we can maybe factor into maybe a revenue potential for this product? I don't know that we're ready to discuss that yet.
There's a number of opportunities we're pursuing.
We haven't announced any new awards.
I -- it'd probably be premature to say too much about that.
I did say the result of the suite of products from the charger to battery management to battery disconnect even as we're pursuing stationary power which that’s an excellent market for the technology.
But at this point I don’t think we really want to outline all of that for -- some for competitive reasons and some for customer confidentiality.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe asked a different way do you have a threshold of like a return on capital threshold that you typically target when you're considering making your capital investments? Yes I think we've said that previously Joe that we target at least a 15% target on that.
So yes we wouldn't have bought it if the charger would be on the opportunity outflow [ph].
Research Division</strong> And then one last one and I'll hop back in the queue.
Do you have any visibility into when we might get a first glance at your product for GM maybe at the auto show in January or some upcoming events? I think after the only --  really by our March call we'll be able to provide some detail there.
I could not confirm for this call when GM might be showing that.
So we're still unable to discuss it at least at this point but I think we're getting pretty close.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that additional platform you picked up that's going to be above and beyond the $100 million? Correct.
But in the chart that we showed at the Baird Conference and then put on the 8-K that is included in there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it becomes incremental to the $100 million after the chart? Correct.
Yes so that goes on from – for ‘15 and beyond.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from Jeremy Hellman of Divine Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the tax line for the back half of the year and looking at the fact that you still have growth over in Asia are you looking to be moving any more cash around that's going to result in any more probable dividend-related taxes in Asia? Right now we don't have anything going on.
The -- but we to look at those opportunities but right now we have other options that we're pursuing and we may come back and visit that later on but not at the current time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe another kind of related question can you frame in some respects either on a relative basis or a percentage basis or otherwise how much cash you have in Asia and Europe respectively maybe relative to North America or otherwise? Yes I think if you look at our total cash outstanding that's about $75 million.
About 25% of that is in Asia another 45% is in Europe and then about -- what does that maybe 10% left for North America.
But in North America that's where we have the bank borrowing the $36 million bank borrowing so Research Division</strong> Right.
Have you looked into -- and I understand [ph] but taking out any kind of a line in Europe? Is that something that's been explored? And also I guess Asia for that matter as well? Not really Jeremy because I mean that's where we have significant cash balances and unless back to your first suggestion if we’re going to borrow money to make a dividend payment.
We haven't looked at taking on debt offshore.
Our next question is coming from David Leiker of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a few more quick ones for me.
Doug can you provide a dollar figure of what Nypro contributed during the quarter? You mean as far as we -- well...
Research Division</strong> Revenues.
Revenues yes it's about $3.2 million and that runs – because we said it would be about $20 million to $23 million I think per -- on an annual basis.
Research Division</strong> And it's my understanding that business is supplying non-automotive customers that you aren't necessarily going to maybe pursue in -- over the long-term? I think we'll keep our options open there because what it's doing for us right now is it covers overhead as we bring in the K2-X [ph] products and the Ford and we do need to honor the agreements we have with those customers.
So it’s -- ultimately it probably becomes a pure in-house factory.
But I think right now that's -- customers are happy with us and we're happy with them so I think we'll maintain the status quo until such time that that doesn't make sense and we maybe let those programs go end-of-life.
We'll also have the option of transferring them to Nypro if we want to.
So I think we talked about that a little bit last quarter.
It gives us some pretty good flexibility and avoided a pure start-up of a decorative painter.
So that the amount – it’ll cost us about $0.02 I think we've said over the next year.
Yes it’s about that.
Maybe… So that's considerably smaller than what it would cost us if we had to do a greenfield so.
Research Division</strong> So you get to keep those people and utilize the facility to...
Absolutely.
You got trained people.
I've got parts sitting in front of me right now in the conference room here that were molded by them first pass on the Ford e-car program so we're very pleased with what that's done for us.
And again we get to pick up some customers.
I think we said those customers are in -- there's some appliance a little out of local [ph] consumer-products.
Consumer products.
Research Division</strong> And then my last one from -- I'm just wondering with the new -- with the incremental Ford business that is set to launch in fiscal '13 can you remind me how many models that's going to be with? And I'm just framing this in the context of the initial models you are on reception of those vehicles has been above and beyond I think expectation.
Do you have any if you glance in your crystal ball what kind of reception there might be for the new models that you're going to be on? I guess I'm wondering if there's potential upside to the CSM or HIS platform forecast that would be contributing to the revenue projections? We won't know what our releases are going to be until we really move into probably January.
So I don't think – I mean we're still in our t-fab stage and preparing to launch.
So we won't have releases from the customer for a little bit yet but that's probably a better question in March than now.
Research Division</strong> So do you know in absolute terms how many vehicles you're adding next year? Well yes we can go to J.D.
Power's data and get that.
I mean we haven't got it now but...
Research Division</strong> So not like in -- not in units but like you’re going to be on the Edge or the Fiesta? Yes Joe I think it's -- check the presentation that we made at the conference because I know it's the Edge the Taurus and then those 2 Lincolns I believe.
Yes.
But it's in that presentation Joe.
We have a follow-up question coming from Jeremy Hellman of Divine Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to check I remembered something with respect to the Nypro business that $3.2 million.
Am I remembering it properly that the margins of that business were lower than your kind of historical norms at the corporate level? On the existing Nypro business? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears we haven't talked about the white goods market at all I guess focusing on more on the good stuff than the negative but -- and speaking with the OEMs that you work with in the white goods area what are you hearing about their channels? Are they relatively clear now? Just any kind of color on that would be helpful.
I don't know if we talked about it last quarter or not.
I mean Whirlpool has laid off additional people and is consolidating some plants.
Right now it's a very tough market for our end customers.
They're down -- for us they're down double digit year-over-year and they were down last year from the year before.
So it's a significantly lower market.
That said we continue to book programs with Whirlpool that ultimately should increase our business with them but our existing business is considerably down and that's going to continue through at least this fiscal year and very much tied to the housing market.
And there's also a fair amount of foreign competition today.
Right.
I think we all expected that.
But I guess what I was getting at is if they're -- if we finally get to a bottom or any slight turn up just wanted to double check again as they go through their restructuring efforts whether that -- and so leaving them with excess inventory that's going to clear such that there's a lagging effect before you see any real volume growth with them.
They have reduced inventory.
I think some of that is still happening certainly from an Electrolux standpoint I believe.
They launched probably their suite of products here in the United States right at the beginning of the recession.
So I think that both customers are still adjusting their inventory.
So yes we'll have a lag but I'm not so sure we're not seeing a bit of that now.
But in our planning we're showing really no growth for those areas other than new programs that we'll book and we'll talk about those as we book them.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the floor back over to management for any closing comments.
Thank you Jackie.
With that we'll thank everyone for listening today and wish everyone a safe and joyous holiday season.
Good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you all for your participation.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics' Fiscal 2012 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statement to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; further downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; ability to compete effectively; customary risks related to conducting global operations; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; the usage of a significant amount of our cash and resources to launch new North American automotive programs; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; unfavorable tax laws; ability to implement and profit from newly acquired technology; and the future trading price of our stock.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Louis and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2012 third quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
On a consolidated basis net sales grew nearly 10% in both the third quarter and first 9 months of fiscal 2012 compared to the same periods last year.
The sales improvement was driven primarily by new product introductions and higher market penetration in our North American and Asian automotive business units.
Sales gains were partially offset by declines in our Interconnect segment a direct result of continued softness in the appliance market and the sale of our Optical business in the fourth quarter of last fiscal year.
We posted third quarter net income of $0.8 million or $0.02 per share compared to $5.9 million or $0.16 per share in the same quarter of last year.
For the first 9 months of fiscal 2012 we had net income of $2.6 million or $0.07 per share compared to $9.4 million or $0.25 per share in the comparable period last year.
For both periods of fiscal 2012 net income was negatively impacted by higher foreign income taxes.
Additionally the settlement of the Blue Angel dispute in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 skewed the year-over-year net income comparison in both the third quarter and first 9 month periods.
Excluding the benefit for settlement of the Blue Angel dispute of $1.7 million in the fiscal 2011 period Methode's net income was $4.1 million or $0.11 per share in last year's fiscal third quarter.
As in the last several quarters design development and launch costs in both our Automotive and Power Products segments continued to impact net income and gross margins.
Additionally vendor production and delivery issues and increased sales of products with higher prime cost further affected our North American automotive income.
In total the development and launch costs and vendor charges lowered our third quarter net income by approximately $3 million or $0.08 per share and lowered our gross margins by 2.7 percentage points.
In the 9-month comparison these costs and charges lowered net income by $6 million or $0.16 per share and lowered our gross margins by 1.8 percentage points.
While vendor production and delivery issues for the Ford Center Console Program impacted the first 9 months of fiscal 2012 by $3.1 million.
The vertical integration project is on track which will alleviate this issue.
That being said we anticipate the vendor production and delivery issues will impact net income by approximately $0.6 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.
Additionally our Ford Center Console Program currently carries a higher prime cost due to the higher purchase content which reduced the program's overall gross margins.
This should also be mitigated by the vertical integration.
We also incurred costs related to the design development and launch of the General Motors Center Console Program.
Thus far in fiscal 2012 we have incurred $2.9 million for this program and anticipate another $1.3 million in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year and approximately $4.5 million in fiscal 2013 in total launch costs.
These costs will also be absorbed as the product launches and revenue is realized.
The majority of those costs being the first 2 quarters of fiscal 2013.
While these costs are having an impact on our results now this program which launches in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 has total anticipated revenue well in excess of $0.5 billion over the life of the program.
To update you on the General Motors award.
We can confirm that the center consoles will be used in our next generation truck platform.
Our content on the product and the anticipated volumes have been increased by the OEM.
As such we've also increased our engineering spend on this program which is reflected in the $1.3 million and $4.5 million estimates just discussed.
Finally in our Power Products segment development costs for the Eetrex on board integrated power unit were approximately $0.6 million in the third quarter and $1.8 million in the 9-month period.
We estimate development costs of $0.6 million in the fiscal 2012 fourth quarter and similar expenses throughout fiscal 2013.
This investment will result in a suite of products applicable to a wide variety of applications for not only e-vans [ph] but also stationary power systems.
Specific to the current e-van [ph] customer we have discussed in the past we have significantly reduced our revenue expectations for this program for fiscal 2014 which was originally $10 million as a result of our customer's reengineering their product.
Turning to our review of our individual segments.
In the third quarter Automotive segment net sales increased almost 24% and in the first 9 months improved over 23% due to higher sales from the Ford Center Console Program as well as from our transmission lead-frame and steering angle sensor products.
The acquisition of Advanced Molding and Decoration AMD contributed almost 54% of the North American automotive sales increase in the third quarter and 36% in the first 9 months.
Automotive segment gross margins decreased in the third quarter and 9-month comparison impacted by the vendor issue the higher prime costs for the Ford center console and costs related to launch of the GM program.
Again our target gross margins for automotive are low- to mid-20s which we anticipate reaching once the General Motors Center Console Program is fully launched in the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
Interconnect sales decreased approximately 10% in both the third quarter and 9-month comparisons attributable mainly to lower appliance sales in North America as well as the sale of Optokon in April of last year.
These lower sales were partially offset by increased sales of data and safety remote control products.
As we mentioned last quarter we anticipate reduced appliance sales will continue through fiscal 2012 and the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
Interconnect's gross margin fell in the second quarter and first 9 months again due to lower sales.
Our Power Products segment saw flat sales in the third quarter but improved sales of 8.5% in the first 9 months.
Power Products gross margins decreased in both reporting periods mainly due to product mix and the Eetrex product development costs.
Without the new product development costs gross margins would have been 21.5% in the third quarter and 30.8% in the first 9 months.
Our target gross margin for the segment is in the high 20s.
Now moving to what we see for the several next quarters.
As we have said before we see opportunity through meaningful improvement in our margins once the vertical integration project is complete and we reach full launch of major programs in fiscal 2014 where we are poised to exceed Methode's 2008 historical revenue high of $551 million.
If you recall we laid out for you on last quarter's conference call the major programs which are anticipated to achieve approximately $630 million in fiscal 2014 revenue.
Now let me summarize some of the design wins and business awards we have not yet announced.
In the third quarter we booked a number of programs in our Automotive segment for hidden and ergonomic switches to be manufactured at our European facility that have an average annual revenue of over $10 million beginning in fiscal 2016 with a program life of 5 years.
These programs exemplify our continued penetration of the European automotive market.
In Interconnect TouchSensor has been awarded for the touch user interface on a laundry platform for a large appliance OEM.
The platform which launches this summer will be used on multiple major brands and represents $30 million to $40 million in annual revenue at full run rate.
This award is TouchSensor's first major volume win in the laundry space and demonstrates that touch technology continues to grow in popularity in the white goods segment.
This award has been included in our revenue projections and in our guidance.
In the near-term our fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 should be our strongest of the year due mainly to the launch of the Ford e-car program as well as the launches in Europe.
We maintain our 2012 full year guidance of $450 million to $465 million in sales and earnings per share of $0.13 to $0.21.
In fiscal 2013 we anticipate $495 million to $525 million in sales and earnings per share of $0.52 to $0.67 driven by our base business along with the major awards we have previously discussed.
That said we anticipate our revenue ramp again from booked programs not projections will occur at the end of the fiscal 2013 second quarter.
As such the first and second quarter of fiscal 2013 will be impacted by significant launch costs.
In summary we continue to move closer to the  launch of several large programs which combined with our vertical integration projects not only lead to improved revenue but also to margin improvement.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will provide further details regarding our financial results.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone.
I'm going to keep my comments very limited today since we provided a lot of detailed information on the third quarter and 9-month period in both our earnings and 10-Q.
So let me start with the effective tax rate.
The effective tax rate was 60% in the third quarter and 58% for the 9-month period.
This high rate with this is primarily due to the fact that we generate most of our taxable income in China where the tax rate has been 12.5% and just increased 25% effective January 1 2012.
Another item that negatively affected the effective tax rate for the 9-month period was the fact that we had $900 000 of withholding tax expense and that was on the dividend that we declared from our China facility to our Singapore facility of about $17 million.
We did that if you recall to reduce the amount of cash concentrated in China.
As we look forward to the fourth quarter we expect the consolidated effective tax rate to reduce significantly and this is as we begin to see offsetting taxable income growth in both the U.S.
and Malta where we benefit from both net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax credit carry forwards respectively in both of those locations.
I'll take a look at the capital expenditures.
For the 9-month period we spent $16.6 million in CapEx.
In addition to that we spent $6.3 million for the acquisition of the business assets of the former Nypro operation in Monterrey Mexico.
This acquisition actually allowed us to save about $8 million of equivalent greenfield capital expenditures for new equipment that would have been needed to bring the molding paint and laser-etch process in house.
We expect to spend an additional $7 million to $8 million in the fourth quarter primarily related to the molding paint and laser-etch process.
For fiscal 2013 we expect CapEx to be between $15 million to $17 million which is in line with our historical CapEx spending rate.
Looking at currency exchange during the 9-month period we recorded net foreign exchange losses of $800 000.
This is due to the appreciation of the renminbi to the U.S.
dollar.
The remainder of the currency pairings that we have primarily the U.S.
dollar to the euro actually resulted in gains for the 9-month period.
And management is considering  hedging alternatives to mitigate the exposure to the renminbi going forward.
On the credit facility we increased our borrowings in the third quarter by $3 million to $39.5 million from $36.5 million.
Currently most of our cash is located outside the United States.
While we eventually expect to generate cash in the U.S.
primarily through future domestic operations.
It will be necessary to continue to borrow from our foreign affiliates and under the credit facility for the near term.
Management has engaged consultants to review efficient opportunities to repatriate cash back to the United States.
Finally on operating cash.
During the 9-month period we generated $11.9 million of cash from operating activities.
However this was $7.7 million less than last year primarily due to the lower net income.
We also have higher stock award amortization this year of $1.2 million and we saw about $1.3 million of unfavorable change in working capital.
If you look at the cash balance net of borrowings during the 9-month period we burned about $20.1 million.
This was primarily due to the lower net income also the $16.6 million of capital expenditures and $7.8 million in dividends and the $6.3 million for the acquisition of the Nypro assets.
We expect the situation to reverse as we launch the new automotive and appliance programs.
Don that concludes my remarks.
Doug thank you very much.
Louis we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Leiker from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe Vruwink for David.
Just -- can you maybe provide clarification on the Interconnect  award for appliances.
It sounds like a great award with a customer you've been trying to get more involved with.
Do you have a idea when you might hit full volume or a good annualized rate of volume on that program? I can't provide really too much more background on the award.
I can say it will begin its launch in late summer and hit its stride in the next calendar year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that $30 million to $40 million on today's kind of level of appliance demand? So if we would theoretically get a recovery in the housing markets you're looking at a lot more than that $30 million to $40 million? I think I would say on the low end of that $30 million is we're kind of saying status quo and then on the higher end the $40 million is some recovery in the market.
Not I wouldn't say back to the '08 level but I think we've taken that into account in the $30 million to $40 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Power or it's the Eetrex award did you provide what's -- it's not $10 million anymore but did you say what it actually is now? We have not.
The customer is rethinking their product and we just wanted to let everyone know that we've reduced that significantly in our projections.
So I don't think I want to say yet because it could be could be nothing could be several million.
Research Division</strong> And then the thought process -- it sounds like you're still going to go ahead with $2 million or $2.5 million of Eetrex investments next year.
Maybe just give an explanation on the thought processes of the revenue opportunity for that product is maybe diminished in the next well near term I guess? Potentially from an e-van [ph] standpoint but from stationary power that that is probably increasing our optimism for the revenue gain in Eetrex.
As you know we have a data center business and lithium-ion technology is starting to be deployed in the data centers moving away from lead acid.
So the combination of Eetrex and our path to market with our data center business provides some pretty good near-term opportunity.
And again not diminish e-van [ph].
It's just our one customer is changing their product strategy a bit.
And so that caused us to reduce our expectations there.
But I think our expectations for the other markets are quite high.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just on the Q4 I know you don't give quarterly guidance so you can back in on that it's going to be I guess $0.06 to $0.14.
Are there swing factors that you see on the horizon that could still feasibly get you to the $0.14 figure? And I'm wondering what those are? The reason we didn't change the guidance is the company's position is that we provide annual guidance.
So we're not going to try to narrow the range.
But there are -- we talked about taxes before taxes can swing quite a bit.
And that's one of the items that can be driving that number possibly up to the higher end of that range but that's primarily why we've left the guidance where it's at.
It's that management report [ph] just the business of providing annual guidance at this point.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything that would cause for a tax benefit in Q4? Yes.
When we -- in the fourth quarter what we'll do is we'll finish our budgeting process and that's when we take a look at a lot of our valuation allowances in the -- on the tax side.
And there -- I think there could be some movement there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last tax question.
Have you been planning for a certain effective tax rate? I mean you're -- I guess you're coming in -- would [ph] be under that so you have to play catch-up in Q4 and that's what would contribute to maybe lower than expected taxes? If I'm thinking about that correctly? Yes.
And it's really the lower -- the expected lower effective tax rate in the fourth quarter is going to be because we're going to start generating more income in both Malta and the U.S.
that are sheltered by -- again in U.S.
we have the net operating losses.
In Malta we have the investment tax credit offsets.
So what happened is the as we generate more non-China income that just lowers the effective tax rate even though the China rate is going up.
It becomes a smaller part of the pie.
So that's what's going to drive the lower rate in the fourth quarter.
And like I said it will also be the reason that next year we expect a lower tax rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I actually I had a one more question.
On the pick ups in the GM business on the new T900 platform.
Is there any -- can you provide maybe models? Or can you clarify I'm guessing it's going to be on the SUVs or crossovers can you provide maybe any further granularity on that? Not at this time.
But -- all I -- all we can do is what I put in our prepared remarks.
I'm sorry.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Duda there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to you for closing comments.
Well thank you Louis.
We'll thank everyone for listening and wish everyone a good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2013 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; further downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; ability to compete effectively; customary risks related to conducting global operations; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to improve gross margins due to a variety of factors; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; the usage of a significant amount of our cash and resources to launch new North American automotive programs; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; income tax rate fluctuations; ability to implement and profit from newly acquired technology; and the future trading price of our stock.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Rob and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2013 first quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
Methode's first quarter sales improved 7% to nearly $119 million driven mainly from increased sales of the Ford center console program lead frame assembly products torque-sensing products for e-bikes and motorcycles and sales for the recently acquired AMD.
These sales improvements were partially offset by softness in our Interconnect and Power Products segments.
In our release today we have reiterated full year fiscal 2013 sales guidance of $495 million to $525 million.
As we discussed last quarter the launch of a user interface panel for a large laundry program along with the launch of multiple automotive programs in Europe in the second and third quarters is expected to improve second and third quarter sales and earnings sequentially.
Additionally the launch of the General Motors center console program in the fourth quarter is anticipated to make that quarter Methode's strongest in sales and earnings for fiscal 2013.
However that being said we remain cautious about the macroeconomic environment in Europe and are managing our risks very carefully particularly concerning the second half of our fiscal year.
Approximately 45% of our manufacturing sales in Europe are for products exported to North America.
At this point that portion of the business is projected to remain stable.
Our concern is mainly for those products manufactured and distributed within Europe.
Currently customer orders through the end of this calendar year are in line with our expectations but as I said we remain cautious.
First quarter earnings per share of $0.10 improved from $0.04 last year.
Higher overall sales volume higher other segment income lower performance-based compensation and severance expense and a commodity price investment drove earnings.
First quarter earnings were negatively impacted this year by higher income tax expense higher selling and administrative expense due to the acquisition of AMD and higher design development and engineering costs.
As we have discussed over the last several quarters design development and launch costs in both our Automotive and Power Products segments continued to impact net income and gross margins.
Additionally vendor production and delivery issues and increased sales of products with a higher prime cost further affected our North American Automotive income.
In total the development and launch costs and vendor charges lowered first quarter net income by approximately $2.5 million or $0.07 per share and lowered our gross margin by 3.1 percentage points.
Our vertical integration of Advanced Molding and Decorating or AMD continues to progress as anticipated.
At the end of the first quarter AMD is successfully producing decorative components for the majority of the Ford center console products we supply.
As a result we anticipate vendor production and delivery costs should be eliminated in this second quarter.
Additionally our Ford center console program originally carried a higher prime cost due to the high purchase content which reduces the program's overall gross margins.
With the vertical integration substantially complete we should see gross margins in the Automotive segment begin to improve reaching our target of low to mid 20s in fiscal 2014.
We also incurred costs related to design development and launch of the General Motors center console program for the next-generation truck platform the program that has total anticipated revenue in excess of $0.5 billion over its contract life.
In fiscal 2013 we anticipate approximately $4.5 million in total launch costs for the program with the majority of those costs occurring in this first half.
These costs will be ultimately absorbed as the product launches and revenue is realized which again is anticipated to begin in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year.
In August the company and the various Delphi parties agreed to settle all Delphi-related litigation matters.
In addition to resolving all claims between the parties the companies will assign -- the company will assign certain patents to Delphi and enter into a non-compete with respect to the related technologies.
In exchange the company will receive a payment of $20 million half of which will be paid in October 2012 and half which will be paid in January 2013.
The company expects to record the entire gain in the second quarter of this fiscal 2013.
Because we reached a settlement in second quarter SG&amp;A should decrease in the second half of this fiscal year due to the absence of the related legal fees.
As the agreement is subject to confidentiality provisions this is the extent of the information we can provide at this time and we will not be providing any further commentary.
Based on an anticipated decrease in SG&amp;A and the fact that the first quarter profitability came in higher we also announced this morning that we have increased fiscal 2013 earnings per share guidance to between $0.66 and $0.81.
Please note that this range does not include the settlement amounts just discussed.
Turning to a review of our individual segments.
In the first quarter Automotive segment end sales increased over 13% due to higher sales in the Ford center console programs and our transmission lead frame product.
Additionally the acquisition of AMD contributed almost 48% of the North American Automotive sales increase in the quarter.
AMD continues to break even at the gross margin level.
Automotive segment gross margins decreased in the first quarter impacted by the higher prime cost of the Ford center console costs related to launch of the General Motors program and AMD sales at breakeven partially offset by commodity price adjustment from precious metals of $0.9 million.
Again our target gross margin for Automotive are low to mid 20s which we anticipate reaching once the General Motors center console program is fully launched in the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
Interconnect sales decreased approximately 2% in the first quarter attributable mainly to lower sales of radio remote controls in Europe due primarily to the lack of sales to a financially distressed radio remote control distributor as well as the planned exit of a business line at our Asian operation.
To remedy the situation in Europe we have signed a memorandum of understanding to purchase the business assets of the distributor.
We anticipate the transaction to be completed during the second quarter.
However appliance sales in North America improved in the first quarter due mainly to a modest shipment of product -- of production units for the laundry platform we are launching.
As we mentioned in our release this morning we are anticipating shipping lower volumes of this product in the second quarter than what we had originally anticipated as directed by the OEM.
At this point we foresee volumes improving significantly in the third quarter as inventory of the model we are replacing is completed.
We now anticipate this program to represent $12 million to $17 million in sales in fiscal 2013 with $30 million to $40 million in annual revenue at full run rate in fiscal 2014.
Interconnect's gross margins grew slightly in the first quarter due mainly to higher sales for data solution products offset by development costs for the laundry platform.
Our Power Products segment saw 5.5% lower sales in the first quarter due mainly to a lower demand for cabling and heat sink products.
At this point we anticipate continued softness for at least the next 2 quarters in this segment.
Power Products gross margins increased in the first quarter mainly as a result of product mix and favorable commodity pricing for raw materials.
Without the new product development costs gross margins would have been 22.3% and 20.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and 2012 respectively.
Our target gross margin for the segment is in the high 20s which we anticipate achieving in fiscal 2014 as more products launch.
Now let me summarize some of the product development and new business awards and opportunities that occurred in the first quarter.
In the Automotive segment our torque-sensing group is working closely with an Asian OEM on a prototype torque sensor for a new fuel-efficient transmission.
We were also awarded a trailer brake switch for the same models of General Motors trucks for which we are producing the center consoles.
Annual revenue is approximately $4 million beginning with fourth quarter of this fiscal year.
Program life is 5 years.
Additionally the Automotive group was awarded new lead frame business with a Detroit OEM for almost $7 million in average annual revenue beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 with a projected run of 5 years.
In Europe we are awarded additional hidden switch business with Ford Volvo Jaguar and an electric park brake switch for Renault with combined average annual revenue of $4 million.
In Interconnect TouchSensor has developed new LevelGuard fluid sensors which allow level-sensing in industrial and residential waste applications.
Those will be introduced to the market in the second half of this fiscal year.
So to quickly summarize the first quarter has us on our way to achieving our earnings guidance target  for the year which is an approximate threefold increase in EPS over last year.
Additionally our launch teams continue to do an excellent job of managing our projects under development and moving those towards successful launches.
Today's quarterly results are just part of the story reflecting 190-day window.
I would ask that you take a look at what we are accomplishing for the long term with our technologies custom-engineered products and solutions and global operations.
We are building a company of sustainable quality and earnings for many years to come.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will provide further details regarding the financial results.
Doug? Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone.
Let me just add a few additional comments to those Don has already made.
On the last call I commented that the full year fiscal 2013 effective tax rate would be in the low to mid-teens.
Sitting here today we expect the full year effective tax rate to be closer to the low end of that range.
In fact our first quarter effective tax rate was 10%.
In the first quarter we spent $11.4 million for capital expenditures.
For the full year we still expect to spend between $25 million and $28 million for CapEx projects.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the first quarter was $4.3 million.
For the full year we expect that number to be between $18 million and $20 million as we place more assets in service throughout the year.
As Don mentioned consolidated net sales were up 7% or about $7.9 million year-over-year however sales were about $2.4 million lower year-over-year due to currency fluctuations primarily due to the weakening of the euro to the dollar.
Operating cash was relatively flat year-over-year with $6.2 million this year versus $6.5 million last year.
We had higher net income this quarter versus last year but we saw an offset in working capital increase due to the increase in business levels.
Lastly let me just comment that we borrowed an additional $8.5 million in the quarter bringing bank debt up to $56.5 million at the end of the first quarter.
I bet you'll recall that in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 we identified $38 million of undistributed foreign earnings for repatriation in the dividend.
We expect to bring this cash back to the U.S.
in second and third quarter of fiscal 2013.
This will help pay for capital expenditures needed for the launch of the center console program and will reduce the amount of additional borrowings under our credit facility.
That concludes my remarks.
Thank you Doug.
Rob we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of David Leiker of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Doug I just -- I missed the number right at the end in terms of how much cash you're repatriating.
Yes we've identified $38 million.
And so that's cash that's already on the balance sheet but it's in Asia and we're bringing it back to North America into the U.S.
Research Division</strong> And then because of the NOL possession -- position that is not taxed.
Is that correct? Correct.
We recognize the tax event on that decision to repatriate back in the fourth quarter but because of the NOLs we had an offset in the valuation allowance.
So there was no P&amp;L impact in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And then Don a handful of questions here.
The lead frame moving from Asia to North America Mexico I guess in particular what's the thought process behind that? Your customer wants it for this year or...
Yes.
Two manufacturing locations one in Asia for shipments to the assembly plant which I think is in the Philippines and then they also started an assembly plant in Mexico.
So 2 for supply on 2 continents.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you provided a comment about the orders that you're seeing here for the near term are consistent with your expectations.
I guess is there some -- any way you can give us some context here in August versus what you saw in June and July if there's any sequential reduction in that order rate particularly out of Europe? No reduction.
As I said we're -- at least through the calendar year the releases we've received -- and as you know the near-term releases tend to be pretty firm and then they get a little softer as you get out in the later months but we are on track to what we anticipated we are just being cautious about what the second half of our fiscal year may hold again particularly in Europe.
But we've not seen any softening.
Research Division</strong> So the plants in Europe start to come back up here in the next week or so.
Is that coming at a pace consistent with what they went down for the summer? I wouldn't say it that way.
I would say that what they have released to us is maintaining.
I don't know whether the pace has changed or not.
I mean usually there's some catch-up because they have been shut down.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well I'm just trying to get a gauge whether as we come out of their summer whether they're taking production lower than what they went in at.
And I don't know that.
We just know that our releases have remained consistent and that could change 6 8 weeks from now.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes no I understand.
I mean we are in this vacuum with Europe and everyone's trying to get their arms around what we're going to be seeing there in September.
In terms of the guidance it looks like all of the increase came from absence of legal and first quarter being better than expected.
Is that fair or are there some other puts and takes there that we're not seeing on the surface? No I think that's accurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it's one of these things where you start giving us information and we want more right? You talk about Q2 and Q3 sequentially better than Q1 and Q4 being the best.
Is there any way you can give us what that ramp looks like? Is it a little bit better and then big fourth quarter or more evenly spread or any quality of color you can give? We said that sequentially they will improve.
You've got laundry launching although at a lower volume initially because we're using up inventory than we anticipated in the second quarter.
So the third quarter will be stronger because of that and then you've got additional launches in the third quarter in Europe.
And then the caveat I would put there is that we are watching Europe carefully to see what those -- how those launches materialize.
We know we're going to be shipping more product than we are today but are we going to launch at the prescribed rate? And we won't know that until we get into those quarters.
And in the fourth quarter we've got the continued launch of laundry the addition of the launches in Europe that are carried over from Q3.
And then in Q4 the last month of the quarter is when we start to ship General Motors.
So...
Research Division</strong> So that fourth quarter then as you start to launch that we will have some capitalized expenses relative to the P&amp;L at the point you start shipping right? Or are those already hitting the income statement? Not yet.
They'll hit in productions.
Research Division</strong> And then those initial volumes I mean is that actual job 1 production or still preproduction? That'll be job 1.
I mean you'll be launching for available product.
You start shipping in preproduction a little earlier than that.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes.
And then did you -- Don you made a comment that you hit full production on that early in the fiscal '14? Right.
In the first quarter we'll have 3 months of full volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But isn't there a second light on that contract that...
There is.
And then SUV launches I'm going from memory Dave but I want to say 6 months after that.
We can verify that.
Research Division</strong> No I -- when you said full launch I was thinking the entire contract but you're viewing it...
No.
And actually it's not 6 months it's 3 months.
Research Division</strong> And you're viewing it as 2 contracts whereas I was looking at it as 1.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Jeremy Hellman of Divine Capital.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple things on your plans with respect to the balance sheet.
So you've got 2 tranches of $10 million coming in from the Delphi and then the $38 million you're going to repatriate.
Do you -- beyond the CapEx needs that you mentioned do you anticipate paying down debt with the balance? Yes.
As we look at the full year it's going to be -- we still have significant CapEx.
We still are going to be spending for some design and development.
And so obviously bringing the cash back from offshore and then also the settlement cash will help us reduce the amount of borrowings we otherwise would have needed.
But the -- as far as liquidity-wise we are very comfortable with the credit line that's in place and adequate to meet our demands.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then otherwise looking at torque-sensing was are nice quarter on that line.
And in the discussion about new business and the like where you mentioned some work over there in Asia do you think that that's getting to the point when you want to either retitle that other line or move torque-sensing into one of the other buckets? Just wondered about your plans on that.
So the -- it's in Automotive as we launch the senior position which launches in '15 our fiscal '15.
That would be pure Automotive and that would fall in probably in the Automotive segment.
It's being managed by the Automotive launch teams now.
Right now it is not Automotive so we wouldn't put it -- but yes I think where we -- I guess we'll cross that bridge when we get there but more likely it would have been...
Yes that'll be a discussion we have with the accounts Jeremy but it's not maybe dissimilar to -- if you think of the TouchSensor technology which is an Interconnect but to the extent we use it in Automotive those revenues and earnings are both in Automotive.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
Okay.
And then one last one for me just refreshing.
In terms of the legal expense that's going to be coming out now what was the amount spent on legal both in Q1 and Q4 for last year? Just so I can adjust accordingly.
In Q1 we spent $600 000 and -- was that about the same amount we spent in Q4? Yes.
About the same amount in both of those quarters.
Our next question is from the line of Greg Macosko with Lord Abbett.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> You mentioned the design and development costs for North American Automotive.
Are we at a -- given your additional announcements for new products et cetera on an overall basis is the -- is that design function at a stable level at this point or do you expect it to ramp further with programs and things? No I think we've reached our I would say peak.
We may see just a little more as we launch General Motors but we wouldn't have to add as we go forward.
In fact those engineers would be -- once General Motors launched past 90 days 180 days past launch then those engineers will be reassigned to new programs and their products really then will be absorbed by the General Motors revenues.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> And the laundry panel that you announced has that been long in process? And give us some color on that.
Is that kind of a new direction or it's an existing direction you've sold for other customers and you're rolling it through the overall customer base? It is the first time that TouchSensor has been used in a laundry application.
So it is a new area it is still in appliance of course but it is the first time that a major appliance OEM has rolled that out on a laundry platform.
And it will be the largest launch that TouchSensor I believe has ever done.
Now the Ford center console with Touch was larger but in terms of laundry this is the largest and this is the first time it's being used.
And this is the entire panel.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> And do you expect you'd have interest from other customers? Do you feel that's an opportunity further beyond this single customer? Yes so what has happened in the past with TouchSensor it was originally deployed on cooktops when SCHOTT Glass owned TouchSensor and they really funded the development -- further development of technology from the startup.
They wanted it for cooktops and once it got there with 1 customer then it carried over to several others.
That went to -- from there it went to dishwashers wall ovens.
And so we would -- we are planning that it will -- assuming that it has good market acceptance in this platform and we think it will that we'll see other customers as well as this customer roll it out in the other platforms.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> And just looking generally at the Interconnect and the Power Products area you had some impacts given sales were down in both and yet the margins -- the gross margins were improved relative to mix and some other factors.
Are we at a stable level there? Or I mean is the mix factor kind of baked in now going forward? Or is there -- would you expect fluctuations on that score? I would expect some fluctuations.
Auto is relatively predictable you can look at releases.
And as you win awards you can look at forecasted volumes in any number of ways.
In Power Products it's more difficult.
You may book a program or you'll get print position on a program that's anticipated to be say $2 million but you'll have visibility maybe 2 months out or whatever was in your lead time.
So it's difficult to predict.
And the margins and margins in telecom are less than the margins on military/aero.
So if you have larger orders in the mil/aero business you're going to see considerably better gross margin.
So it is a little I don't like to use the word choppy but it's probably a good word for it.
Right now in terms of are we in a stable position we don't feel we need to add any additional resources.
We need to launch the products we have with what we've seen in this quarter and I think we're anticipating in the coming quarters is the volumes are -- the product is launching but not quite at the volumes that originally projected.
And some of that I think is largely due to the economic environment.
So we're kind of -- that business will improve as we launch more product and we have focused on the higher margin product and have shied away from some of the lower margins over the last several years.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> In terms of the launch of the General Motors center console I mean is it fair to say that your experience with Ford would relate pretty strongly there and help in understanding the costs and controlling that launch? Yes absolutely.
The Ford -- I can't really discuss the configuration of the General Motors console but launching 2 Ford programs with multiple colors on the bezel plus launching Touch for the first time in Automotive Methode definitely cut its teeth on that.
And we had had center console experience in Europe with Aston Martin but the Ford was the first time we launched a large domestic OEM.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> And then finally with regard to the exit of the product line in Interconnect is that I mean something you expected and that's -- and there'll be additional ones going forward? Or give us some color on that.
Sure.
It was -- if you remember the PCMCIA cards that were used in computers for years Methode probably over the years provided 60% 70% of those in the marketplace and we wound down dual systems quite some time ago.
But we kept the product in Asia as there's still demand and now we're seeing the end of life on that.
In fact it went longer than we anticipated.
And so we thought we'd be done with it really 6 8 months ago and it continued a little bit longer.
So I know it's planned and that'll be the end of PC cards.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Any more coming in Interconnect or Power Products or anything? No no no.
We always do some product pruning but nothing that would be remarkable.
Our next question is from the line of David Leiker of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of items to follow up here.
I think you've given launch cost guidance in the past like $5 million to $6 million for the year.
Does that sound right? Yes.
For General Motors? Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes about $4.5 million probably is what -- yes $4.5 million.
Research Division</strong> $4.5 million? Okay.
And that $1.4 million at the end of the quarter was all General Motors? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have a sense as you go through the SUV launch then is that a comparable number or is it lower? Yes it's going to be on...
Well it's included in that $4.5 million yes to answer your cash in [ph] question.
Research Division</strong> So you wouldn't exactly -- so that $4.5 million I shouldn't view as of 2013 estimate? Or once you launch the pickups the incremental launch costs that go to the SUV aren't that high? I think that's probably a fair assumption.
And again I misspoke before it's a 3-month lag not a 6-month lag.
So yes by the time we get to the pickup truck launch SUV is just about done.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then from a longer-term perspective on the capital structure here you've got a lot of investments you've made a handful of acquisitions over time.
Methode is a company historically that's always been debt free with significant cash balances.
From a longer-term perspective where do you see that capital structure returning to 2 or 3 years out? Well barring any acquisition that would use cash we'll start to build our cash again as these programs are launched and we receive a payment on them.
So could we return to a $100-million cash position? Yes absolutely.
And historically when we've gotten to that level we usually have some acquisition in the mix.
So I don't think our plans have changed.
I mean I have said that for the right acquisition we might take on some long-term debt but I don't think anything at this stage would cause us to change our capital plans for another strategy.
Research Division</strong> And there's nothing that you'd see there on the horizon in the context that an equity offering would make sense is there? No no.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Rob thank you.
With that we'll thank everyone for listening today and wish everyone a safe holiday weekend.
Good day.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2013 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which is our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: Dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; further downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; ability to compete effectively; customary risks related to conducting global operations; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to improve gross margins due to a variety of factors; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; the usage of a significant amount of our cash and resources to launch new North American automotive programs; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; income tax rate fluctuations; ability to implement and profit from the newly acquired technology; and the future trading price of our stock.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you.
Mr.
Duda you may begin.
Thank you Kevin and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2013 second quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
Methode's second quarter sales grew 12% to $130 million and in the first six months of fiscal 2013 net sales increased nearly 10% to $249 million.
In both periods improved volumes are driven mainly by increased sales of the Ford center console program and lead frame assembly products new product launches in our European Automotive business torque-sensing products sales for e-bikes motorcycles and ATB's as well as higher appliance and data solution sales.
These sales improvements were partially offset by softness in our Power Products segment.
As we announced this morning we received half of the fund coming [indiscernible] the other half in January of next year.
We recorded the entire gain in the second quarter in the income from settlement section of the income statement.
Including the impact of [indiscernible] second quarter net income is $5 million or $0.13 per share from $0.01 last year and its first-half net income is $8.8 million or $0.23 per share compared to $0.05 last year.
The earnings improvement was driven by higher overall sales volume lower selling and administrative expenses the one-time reversal of accruals related to a customer bankruptcy higher other segment income commodity pricing adjustments and lower legal expenses.
Second quarter earnings were negatively impacted this year by higher cost related to the design development engineering and launch of the General Motors center console program higher income tax expenses absence of the gain on the acquisition of AMD from which we've benefited last year cost related to the delayed launch of the laundry program as well as manufacturing efficiencies lower sales and an unfavorable product mix within the Power Products segment.
Loss related to the design development and launch of the General Motors center console program for their next-generation truck platform lowered second quarter net income by approximately $2 million or $0.05 per share and lowered first half net income by $3.4 million or $0.09 per share.
In fiscal 2013 we anticipate approximately $4.5 million in total launch cost for the program with the majority of those cost having already occurred in the first half.
Consolidated gross margins fell about 1% in the second quarter and less than 1% in the first 6 months compared to the same periods of last year.
The decrease was due primarily to increased design development and engineering cost for the General Motors center console program as well as increased sales of the Ford center console program which carries a higher prime cost due to the high purchase content.
Additionally the delayed launch of the laundry program in the Interconnect segment as well as manufacturing inefficiencies and an unfavorable product mix in the Power Products segment negatively impacted our second quarter and first half gross margins.
The development launch cost for the General Motors center console program lowered Automotive second quarter gross margins by 2.5 percentage points and first 6 months gross margin by 2.2 percentage points.
As I mentioned last quarter we are successfully producing all of the decorative components for Ford's D Car platforms.
However due to higher-than-anticipated volumes of the U Car we continue to utilize the outside suppliers to supplement our production in the second quarter.
While our charges for inspection and freight were lower this quarter over last year we anticipate incurring charges in the third quarter as we ramp up to meet towards demand.
In our release today we announced that we anticipate sequentially lower sales in earnings in our third quarter compared to the second quarter due to weakening demand over the last few weeks in our European Automotive segment as well as reduce sales in the Power Products segment.
As such we now expect third quarter earnings per share to be breakeven to modestly profitable.
Additionally based on what we are seeing in Europe we now anticipate sales and earnings for fiscal 2013 to be at the low end of our guidance range of sales of $470 million to $500 million and earnings per share in the range of $0.45 to $0.60.
This guidance excludes the income from a litigation settlement.
This would indicate that we are anticipating a strong fourth quarter which is based on the initial launch of the General Motors K2XX program new launches in European Automotive which are being delayed by the customer from our third quarter now launching in the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter is a full 13 weeks with no holidays.
And generally we see strong OEM demand in our fourth quarter.
That said there is considerable volatility in the European market.
Now turning to review of our individual segments.
Automotive segment sales increased nearly 19% in the second quarter and grew 16% in the first half with a higher sales of the Ford center console program and our transmission lead-frame product as well as new product launches in Europe.
Automotive segment gross margins decreased in the second quarter and first half impacted by the higher prime cost for the Ford center console program as well as cost related to the launch of the General Motors program partially offset by lower costs related to third-party inspection cost premium freight and overtime expenses and a commodity price adjustment.
In our third quarter we believe our European Automotive segment will be impacted by several factors.
First the economic conditions in Europe; second the delayed launches; and finally reduced volumes on the new EV programs.
Moving to Interconnect sales increased almost 6% in the second quarter and nearly 2% in the first half attributable mainly to improved appliance and data solution sales partially offset by lower sales of radio remote controls as well as the planned exit of our product line at our Asian operation.
Appliance sales improved in the first half due mainly to the successful launch of the first phase of the laundry program in October.
However due to a customer-driven delay the remaining 3 phases of launch are now expected to occur in the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
We anticipate this program to be at a full run rate in the second half of our fiscal 2014.
As I mentioned last quarter radio remote control sales decreased in Europe partially due to lack of sales to a financially distressed distributor.
To remedy the situation in September we acquired certain assets of the distributor and we'll operate this business under the name Hetronic Italy.
Additionally an overall ongoing weakness in the European economy impacted second quarter Hetronic sales but several of our customers saw a softer demand in their end markets.
Interconnect's gross margins were relatively stable in the second quarter and first half due mainly to higher sales for appliances and data solution products offset by development cost for the laundry platform.
Our Power Products segment saw a 9% and 7% lower sales in the second quarter and first half respectfully due mainly to significant reduced military spending major project with Cisco going end-of-life sooner than we anticipated as well as the delay of new programs such as domestic EV programs.
And in general much lower volumes than we originally anticipated.
However our design and success with Power Products on data center servers has offset some of the weakness in industrial and military accounts due to the economy and government budget cutbacks.
At this point we anticipate continued softness in the second half for the segment.
Power Products' gross margins decreased in the second quarter and first half mainly as a result of manufacturing inefficiencies lower sales and an unfavorable product mix.
Without the new product development cost for E-Trucks gross margins would had been 18% and 19% in the second quarter and first half respectively.
Now let me summarize some of the product development and new business awards and opportunities occurred in the second quarter.
In our North American Automotive segment we have been awarded the capacitive touchscreen for a portion of General Motors K2XX as well as all of the vehicles in the 31XX platforms replacing the 8-inch resistive touchscreen we are currently purchasing from a third party.
This will be a running change for the K2XX platform beginning at July of 2014 and 31XX will launch with our capacitive touchscreen.
This is Methode's first major award with a capacitive touch screen and should improve the margins for the General Motors center console program.
We are utilizing this award to discuss additional capacity business opportunities with General Motors as well as opportunities with other OEMs.
This is another example where our technology developed by another Methode division in this case Touch Sensors has been successfully marketed in Automotive as well as being refined to meet stringent Automotive specifications.
In our European Automotive segment we booked several new programs including an electric park brake assembly as well as hidden window lift and tailgate switches for various European OEMs.
Together these programs represent approximately $8 million to $10 million in new annual revenue beginning in fiscal 2015.
Hetronic's exposed improved market penetration continues to expand with the addition of a new major customer in Brazil who ordered their first systems.
Further Hetronic received several European industry certifications for various products including its new explosion-proof battery and most importantly for railway products in Europe.
So to quickly summarize although we had a strong first half of fiscal 2013 the third quarter will likely be weaker as the impact of the economic turmoil and downturn in Europe begins to impact us.
However we do expect an improved fourth quarter over third quarter with the General Motors center console program launching and other European Automotive programs moving to full launch.
On an aside our launch and production teams continue to do an excellent job of managing all our projects under development and moving those towards a successful launch.
We commend them for their very fine efforts.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will provide further details regarding our financial results.
Doug? Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
Let me add just a few additional comments to those Don has already made.
Effective tax rate for the second quarter was 12.2% which resulted in an income tax expense of $3.3 million for the second quarter.
If the Delphi settlement were excluded from the second quarter of pretax income and from the tax rate calculation effective tax rate would have been 25.1% and would have resulted in an income expense of $1.7 million for the quarter.
Looking at CapEx in the first 6 months we spent $23.6 million.
As we have said previously most of our capital spending would be in the first half of the year.
For the full year we now expect capital spending to be between $28 million to $31 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense in the first six months was $8.8 million.
In fiscal 2013 we expect full year depreciation and amortization to be between $18 million to $20 million as we place a significant amount of assets in service in the last quarter of the fiscal year.
As Don mentioned consolidated net sales were up $13.9 million or 12% this quarter versus last year.
However sales were negatively affected by $2 million or 1.5% due to currency fluctuations primarily due to the weakening of the euro against the dollar.
For the 6-month period sales were up $21.8 million or 9.6% over last year.
Likewise the 6-month sales were negatively affected by about $2.4 million or 2% also due primarily to the weak euro.
Operating cash was $22.7 million for the 6 months compared to $1.7 million last year.
We had higher net income which included $20 million from the Delphi settlement.
However $10 million of that is yet to be collected.
We also saw improved working capital management in the first 6 months of this year compared to last year.
We brought bank debt down $10.5 million in the quarter to $46 million at the end of the second quarter.
You should recall that in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 we identified $38 million of undistributed foreign earnings from repatriation as a dividend.
The cash was repatriated to the U.S.
in the last week of our second quarter of fiscal 2013.
A portion of this was used to reduce borrowings in the second quarter and it will also reduce the amount of borrowing required for the remainder of the year and will otherwise be used for operating and capital needs.
Don that concludes my comments.
Doug thank you very much.
Kevin we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Jimmy Baker from B.
Riley &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> The inefficiencies that dinged your Power Products margins here in the quarter along with mix.
Can you maybe talk about your expectation for continuation of those dynamics for the balance of the year? Or should we see more significant margin improvement in that business come fourth quarter? At this point -- let me back up our military and aerospace products in general carry a much higher margin than our other products in Power the data center products as well as some of the telecom.
So at this point we're going to see that mix probably stay more towards the lower margin products.
So for the duration of the year I think we're going to see really more of the same.
I think we've said that in the prepared remarks.
And then we're taking a look at what steps do we need to take to adjust that business for what we think is going to be a continued downturn in the military spending going forward.
Now we've got new products coming out but I think this is a general softness that that business is going to have a headwind for at least the next 6 months maybe even 12 months.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just maybe more generally your guidance obviously implies a pretty healthy fourth quarter.
Can you maybe just talk about your comfort level with your European business there in April quarter? Just trying to get a handle on what level of visibility you have there and how conservative you've been? In general we at least a quarter in advance we have pretty good visibility into the releases.
And in normal times those [indiscernible] are fairly reliable.
You don't see much variation.
Europe is not unlike what we saw in say 2008 2009 in the U.S.
Automotive business where there isn't quite a bit of variability in the market as OEMs adjusted to their demands.
So we've looked at our releases we know we are launching more products and work with -- although they're going to launch at a lower rate.
And we feel confident that those are good numbers at this point.
But if we see further declines in the European economy well then that confidence is -- of course it's much less as we're at the mercy of what the OEMs are going to take from us.
So let's say there's a degree of caution there's also a degree of conservatism.
And as we look at Europe and those numbers and we're also launching the initial launch of K2 which will ramp.
We will be building inventory beginning in our fourth quarter and then ultimately selling product I think in the last month is scheduled.
So -- and the fourth quarter is usually our strongest quarter it's 13 weeks no holidays and it's a strong OEM build season.
So that we know that the fourth quarter will certainly be well improved over what we're selling in the third quarter.
Anyway the third quarter has December in it and the holiday shutdowns.
Our next question is coming from David Leiker from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe online for David.
I just want kind of circle back on what you're saying with Europe.
Can you give us a better sense of when you're seeing the production cuts come? Is it December? Are they going to take a full 2 weeks of holiday downtime? Is it more January? And then I'm wondering is this broad-based weakness across all the automakers because I know you typically kind of supply more than normal share of the superpremium segment with like a McLaren or an Aston Martin or even a Jaguar.
So maybe is it broad-based across the automakers or more customer-specific to Methode? It will be more customer-specific.
We have Fiat Renault Peugeot.
We're also seeing the volume on the Leaf vehicle those are ramping at a slower pace.
And the Volkswagen is up for us.
I mean really if you look at quarter-over-quarter what automakers in Europe what the fact is we're tracking that almost one for one.
If Fiat's down we're down.
The premium that hasn't seen a large downturn.
But I would -- the significant reductions are on Fiat and Renault and Peugeot.
And I don't have [indiscernible] I don't have with me what that effect is on a monthly basis but we certainly have that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe I can circle back offline.
Just thinking about I understand your business is normally strong because Q1 production especially in North America is normally strong.
I'm wondering are there any concerns given that GM has very visibly built up a lot of inventory that you really can now be sitting on declines there at the GM so your normal Q4 is a function of how strong Ford might be? That's a good question.
But I would say that will have -- a higher inventory will have an effect later on GM as well as Methode will be doing a pipeline fill on the new pickup truck lines.
So if there is an effect I would think that would come later.
And we're really in daily contact with GM and monitor -- I mean we're nearing launch so we're looking at volumes we're looking at running rates.
That could always change but I think it would really affect maybe our first or second quarters of next year.
And it's one month also.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then my last one.
As you kind of think about the K2XX launch so you're incurring cost right now without any revenues.
As we head towards your Q4 you'll start to get some initial volume but probably not enough to absorb all your overheads.
So I'm just wondering when do we really hit full stride in the launch cadence so that K2XX is additive to your profits? When would you envision that run rate happens? In the first quarter of fiscal 2014.
At that point truck is fully launched and then later on in '14 SUV will launch.
But truck will be fully launched.
And again that's all -- there's no take rate on that it's all the trucks.
Research Division</strong> And I guess what would be the target margin by fiscal Q1 be kind of in line with the rest of your auto business or would you expect it to already be above given that I guess would you be doing the touchscreens on the initial truck volumes as well? No.
That touchscreens will be a running change.
What did we say in...
2014.
2014.
So that won't have an effect on next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then I actually just have a housekeeping item for Doug.
Do you have a sense of what sort of tax rate you might expect towards the back half given it seems like your income is going to be skewed more towards the U.S.? Yes.
I mean we do take a look at what the full year effective for tax rate looks like.
And based on where we sit today I think we were at -- again we had a couple of discrete items but I think we were at 12.2%.
So that's probably -- I get that would be the good rate for the full year to use.
Your next question is coming from Greg Macosko from Lord Abbett &amp; Company.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Just with regard to some of the programs like the launch of the laundry the laundry platform.
I guess which has been delayed.
Is that -- I mean I would assume that would be affecting sales primarily in the fiscal '14 is that right? Or is that how we'd look at it? Yes.
The launch has been delayed at least the last 3 phases to our fiscal '14 and that should be ramping in our first quarter then reaching its peak in the second quarter.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And that was originally expected when? Really ramping now.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Oh okay.
Launching now ramping in the fourth quarter so really shifted 2 quarters.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> I see.
And that's just recent I assume right? Right.
I think we announced that in November 5.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay.
All right.
Yes.
Fine.
And then with regard to the weakness in the Power Products I guess that's primarily military-driven right? Yes.
For the most part but we also we're providing Cisco a product for their high-end servers and that they took end-of-life sooner but that wasn't anticipated and that was a good margin product as well.
But it's really the military that is down.
And we had an EV program that should have been fully ramped now and that's much lower and that's mainly because of the EV market not everybody anticipated.
But again the main factor is the military spending but the other 2 certainly have an effect.
And we're taking a look at what that business is going to be like over the next 6 to 12 months and how do we position that so that we at least take into account what I think will be a slower spend in military for at least the next couple of years.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> So you're -- in other words looking at the manufacturing and capacity and those kind of things for the next near-term? Yes.
I mean what we do I think fairly well is we adjust our expenses in line with the revenues that we expect and the revenues aren't materializing as we once thought so we'll make the appropriate -- and then we've actually started to do that.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Was the military a surprise? Or was that a...
Well I wouldn't say it was a surprise.
The volumes in general were lower than we expected.
But for months now it's been in the process these military spending cuts.
And the new programs which are funded are ramping the volume much slower.
I think we always talked about lessons learned in our business.
I think as we go forward we're going to look at these programs and even though we certainly think we're conservative in what the volumes are going to be we probably need to at least in our Power Products supply maybe even a lower factor or lower the adjustments we make and the volumes we get from our customers.
Because across the board we're seeing lower volumes.
And a factory that's geared for a given volume it doesn't take too much of a downturn to affect your income.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Of course.
And...
We're certainly taking a look at that.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> And then you talked a fair amount about the development cost for General Motors which makes obvious sense.
I think you mentioned the Ford D program or something.
Is that another -- is that a new development program so some of the cost maybe from the GM will roll into that the development cost? No.
That -- we're fully launched on the 2 Ford platforms D Car and U Car.
We originally launched purchasing the painted bezel from a supplier.
We had tremendous amount of issues with that supplier incurred a lot of the premium freight overtime in our plants and we've talked about that on several calls now.
We chose to bring that manufacturing process in-house.
We are probably about 80% complete doing that.
However Ford's volume is up and so we've not been able to move away from the vendor completely.
And that of course impacts our prime costs.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay.
When -- is there an anticipated time on that vendor will be gone? We are anticipating in probably in the next 12 weeks or so in this quarter we soon should have it behind us.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay good.
So that will help the margins a bit then.
Yes.
[Operator Instructions] It appears we have reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the floor back over to management.
Thank you Kevin.
We will wish everyone a very safe and pleasant holiday season and say good morning.
There's a lot.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2013 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectation on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which is our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on small number of large customers including 2 large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; further downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; the ability to successfully launch a significant number of programs; ability to compete effectively; customary risks related to conducting global operations; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to improve gross margin due to a variety of factors; ability to avoid design or manufacture defects; ability to protect our intellectual probably; ability to withstand price pressure; the usage of a significant amount of our cash and resources to launch new North American automotive programs; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; income tax rate fluctuations; ability to implement and profit from newly acquired technology; and the future trading price of our stock.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Mr.
Duda.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2013 third quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
Methode's third quarter and 9-month sales grew nearly 10% to $123 million in the quarter and $371 million in the year-to-date period.
In both periods improved volumes were driven mainly by increased sales of the Ford center console program lead frame assembly products new product launches in our European Automotive business torque-sensing products sales for e-bikes motorcycles and ATVs as well as higher appliance sales.
These sales improvements were partially offset by softness in our European industrial operations and Power Products segments.
As we announced this morning we received the second half of the $20-million litigation settlement in January.
We recorded the entire gain in the second quarter in the income from settlement section of the income statement.
Methode's third quarter net income was $3.3 million or $0.09 per share compared to $0.8 million or $0.02 per share in the same period last year.
Excluding the impact of the litigation settlement Methode's 9-month net income was $11.4 million or $0.03 per share compared to $2.6 million or $0.07 per share last year.
The third quarter earnings improvement was primarily driven by higher sales along with lower third-party inspection premium freight and overtime expenses in the Automotive segment higher-than-anticipated income from our torque-sensing business MFT lower stock or amortization selling and administrative expenses and legal expense.
Third quarter earnings were negatively impacted by higher costs related to the design development engineering and launch of the General Motors center console program cost related to the delayed launch of the laundry program and manufacturing inefficiencies due to lower sales and unfavorable product mix within the Power Products segment.
Costs related to the design development and launch of the General Motors center console program lowered third quarter net income by approximately $1.8 million or $0.05 per share and lowered year-to-date net income by $5.2 million or $0.14 per share.
Last quarter we anticipated total launch costs for the program would be approximately $4.5 million in fiscal 2013.
However costs came in higher than anticipated in the third quarter due to higher-than-expected testing costs and product design changes requested by the customer.
The majority of these costs will be recovered through price increases negotiated this year which will be recouped over the 5-year course of the program.
As we announced in the press release this morning the General Motors center console program was originally scheduled to launch this April.
Due to delay by the OEM the truck portion of the program is now expected to launch 1 month later in May.
And the SUV portion of the program is expected to launch in late January of next year.
However the production releases we are currently seeing thus far for our first quarter is of course the volume ramp we have been projecting for fiscal 2014.
Because of the delay in the launch of the General Motors program along with the costs I just mentioned we anticipate incurring approximately $1.8 million in launch costs in the fourth quarter bringing total launch cost to approximately $7 million for fiscal 2013.
Consolidated gross margin fell about 1% in the third quarter and 0.5% in the first 9 months compared to the same periods of last year.
The decrease was due primarily to increased design development and engineering costs for the General Motors center console program as well as increased sales of the Ford center console program which has carried a higher prime cost due to the high purchase content.
Additionally the delayed launch of the laundry program in the Interconnect segment as well as manufacturing inefficiencies and unfavorable product mix of the Power Products segment negatively impacted our third quarter and year-to-date gross margins.
The development and launch costs for the General Motors center counsel program lowered the automotive gross margins by 2.3% in both the third quarter and 9-month periods.
At the end of the third quarter we were successfully producing all of the decorative components for Ford's D Car and U Car platforms.
However because we were still being treated as a new decorative painting vendor by our customer we continued to incur mandated third-party inspection costs during the third quarter.
We anticipate minimal inspection costs in the fourth quarter.
In our release today we also announced that the last 3 phases of the laundry program which was scheduled to launch in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 has launched in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year.
This launch coupled with fourth quarter launches in our European Automotive business which had been delayed by the customer and the fact that our fourth quarter is a full 13 weeks with no holidays and what is generally stronger OEM demand in our fourth quarter should produce sequentially higher sales in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
And therefore for fiscal 2013 the company anticipates sales in the high end of the guidance range of $470 million to $500 million.
However because of lower-than-anticipated sales in the second half of the year the company's higher-margin businesses namely Hetronic and European Automotive and higher costs related to the launch of the General Motors program we believe earnings per share for fiscal 2013 will be at the low end of the guidance range of $0.45 to $0.60 exclusive of the income from the legal settlement.
Now turning to a review of our individual segments.
Automotive segment net sales increased nearly 13% in the third quarter and grew 15% in the first 9 months due to higher sales of the Ford center console program and our transmission lead-frame products as well as new product launches in Europe.
While our European Automotive sales did increase I should point out that due to economic conditions in Europe they did not grow to the level originally anticipated.
Automotive segment gross margins rose slightly in the third quarter results 0.5% in the 9-month period.
In the 9-month period Automotive gross margins were negatively impacted by the higher prime cost for the Ford center console program as well as costs related to the launch of General Motors program partially offset by lower costs related to the third-party inspection premium freight and overtime expenses and a favorable commodity price adjustment.
Moving to Interconnect sales.
They increased almost 8% in the third quarter and nearly 4% year-to-date driven mainly due to improved appliance and data solution sales partially offset by lower sales of radio remote controls as well as the planned exit of a product line in our Asian operation.
Appliance sales improved in the first 9 months due mainly to the successful launch of the first phase of the laundry program in October.
And as I mentioned a moment ago the remaining 3 phases of the launch of the product kit now launched we anticipate this program to be at its full run rate in the second half of our fiscal 2014.
And I've mentioned in the last few calls radio remote control sales decreased in Europe due to overall ongoing weakness in the European economy and we anticipate this will continue into our fourth quarter.
Interconnect's gross margins declined in both periods due mainly to development costs for the laundry program as well as lower Hetronic sales which carry a higher gross margins.
With the launch of all 4 phases of the laundry program in the fourth quarter Interconnect earnings should improve.
However we're still anticipating lower sales at Hetronic in Q4 which is as I said typically a higher margin business.
Therefore margins are likely to be flat in Q4 compared to Q3.
In order for Interconnect margins to improve we need Hetronic sales to improve.
Our Power Products segment saw lower sales in the third quarter and first 9 months due mainly to significantly reduced military spending a major project with Cisco going end-of-life sooner than we planned as well as the delay of several new programs and in general much lower volumes than we originally anticipated.
At this point we anticipate continued softness in the fourth quarter for this segment.
Power Products gross margins decreased in the third quarter and year-to-date periods mainly as the result of manufacturing inefficiencies lower sales and unfavorable product mix as well as the Eetrex new product development costs.
Without the new product development costs gross margins would have been 21% and 20% in the third quarter and first 9 months respectively.
Now let me summarize some of the new business awards and opportunities that occurred in the third quarter.
In our North American Automotive segment we have been awarded the trailer brake switch for all of the General Motors K2XX platform.
This is a carryover design with cosmetic changes from the GMT900 program.
This program represents approximately $3 million in annual revenue beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2014.
We also anticipate the same switch being used on the 31xx platform.
In our European Automotive segment we are excited to announce that we were awarded the center console program with a French OEM.
While this is not our first center console program with a European OEM it is our largest thus far representing approximately $100 million in total revenue over the life of the program.
The program will launch in fiscal 2016 at approximately $6 million in annual revenue ramping to $20 million at full launch.
The panel integrates the display with controls for the radio infotainment and climate functions in a stylish package with very innovative decorative finishes.
In our Power segment we were awarded several bus bar cable assembly and custom connector programs which represent over $3 million in annual -- average annual revenue beginning in fiscal 2015.
Overall we are pleased that the quarter came in higher than expected on approved sales in our Automotive segment and that the laundry program has now launched.
We are also very pleased that our European team has booked our first major center console program in that region.
We congratulate the team on this very important win.
And finally we look forward to the launch of the General Motors center console program in May.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who'll provide further details regarding our financial results.
Doug? Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
Let me just add a few additional comments to those Don has already made.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter was 20.7% which resulted in income tax expense of $900 000 for the third quarter.
For the 9 months the effective tax rate was $12.9% which resulted in an income tax expense of $4.5 million.
Earnings per share would have been $0.30 for the 9-month period if the Delphi settlement were excluded from the pretax income and from the effective tax rate calculation.
The effective tax rate would have been 24.6% and would have resulted in an income tax expense of $3.7 million for the 9-month period.
For the first 9 months we spent $30 million for capital expenditures.
As we have said previously most of our capital spending would be in the first half of the year.
So for the full year we expect capital spending to be between $32 million and $33 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the first 9 months was $12.9 million.
For the full year of fiscal '13 we expect depreciation and amortization to be between $18 million and $19 million as we place more assets in service in the last quarter of the fiscal year.
As Don mentioned consolidated net sales for the 9-month period were up $32.8 million or 9.8% over last year.
Nine-month sales were negatively affected by $4.6 million or 1.2% due to currency fluctuations primarily due to the weakening of the euro against the dollar.
The FX effect on sales in the third quarter was negligible.
We had less Other expense in the quarter of $100 000 compared to $600 000 last year.
This was primarily related to currency rate fluctuations and the company actively manages this exposure.
For the 9-month period the FX expense included in other expense was $600 000 compared to about $1.2 million last year.
Operating cash was $32.9 million for the 9 months compared to $11.9 million last year.
This was primarily due to the $20-million Delphi settlement.
As Don mentioned earlier we received $10 million of that settlement in the second quarter and the remainder in the third quarter.
Lastly we brought I think debt down $6 million in the quarter to $40 million at the end of the third quarter.
Don that's all of my comments.
Thank you Doug.
I think we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Steve Dyer with Craig-Hallum.
Research Division</strong> Just before I get into the K2 delay question on guidance.
In the release you indicate Q4 you expect to be the best revenue level of the year which if you do that actually pushes you above the guided range.
How do I kind of marry those 2? No I think Q4 is usually our -- a strong quarter is what we meant there.
Pushes us above the revenue guidance or the...
Research Division</strong> Yes if I -- yes for revenue.
If I make that the best quarter of the year so at least $130 million it pushes you to like $501 million.
So it's close but I just want to make sure I get the spirit of that right.
No that's accurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the K2 delay I'm assuming this is pretty new news given that you're in April fiscal year.
Do you anticipate material impact to you guys in fiscal '14? I wouldn't expect much from the truck portion.
The SUV portion I mean is that just -- that's essentially a quarter pushout or a quarter of lost sales for the SUV portion? Is that...
The truck income [ph] -- first on the truck portion of it.
I view that as a slight delay.
We were going to have just a couple weeks of manufacturing in April; it's been pushed to May.
I would be concerned but we have loaded I think over $20 million of product sales into our manufacturing system.
I mean our manufacturing will start in late April.
We won't be shipping anything until May but we got the releases from the automaker now loaded in our system so the impact on our fiscal 2014 short of -- for sale by the automotive OEM should come in as planned.
Now on the SUV we had been aware that.
That was likely pushed out in the numbers that we presented at the various conferences.
That was already taken into account.
We just couldn't officially say that it had been changed because the automaker hadn't said that.
So the pushout of SUV is taken into account in our projections.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no need to change anything that you've presented to date.
Is that fair? No no.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe on the line for David.
Don the $20 million you have loaded in the production system is that a fair estimate for what Q -- fiscal Q1 incremental revenues could be? Too soon to tell.
I would say as we progress through the fourth quarter those will firm up.
I would say they're pretty firm for the first -- for May.
So we'll just have to see how the releases is going.
I'm not willing to say that that's firm yet because we're still -- we're just coming into March now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Congratulations on the center console award in Europe.
I'm wondering would it be fair to think that that award is probably with your largest French customer at the moment? We have 2.
I'm not sure which 1 is larger.
I would -- very likely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess there's a lot of incremental new business coming through the pipeline.
You've had Ford you're getting GM you're getting the French customer.
Just wondering how much of your revenue base goes end-of-life each year? So as we think about these new revenue numbers what is rolling off on the other side? In our -- the numbers that we presented in the conferences where we're showing '14 and '15 and '16 those take into account anything that's going end-of-life.
Usually about 3% to 5% goes to end-of-life each year and sometimes it's as high as 10%.
But we've again we've included that in our projections.
And there is a -- in the coming -- certainly in '14 there's nothing major going end-of-life and going by memory I don't think there's anything in '15.
I think in '16 we see one of the Ford programs -- it doesn't go totally end-of-life but it does slow down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that actually brings me to my last question.
You're basically in your 2 0s [ph] doing the Ford center consoles.
Generally I think of a platform life being call it 5 to 6 years.
So where are you in discussion of either retaining current models you're on of maybe expanding to different models or even thinking internationally since you're producing on global platforms for Ford maybe taking that business to Europe or elsewhere? That's a difficult one to answer just because of the competitive nature of the business when we're pursuing new business with -- along with our competitors.
So I'm going to kind of take a pass and say we're actively having discussions but generally we don't say much until we actually announce the awards.
And so I'd like to give you more color on that but I just think that should be about all we can say there.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Steve Dyer with Craig-Hallum.
Research Division</strong> A couple questions additional ones.
As you think about kind of future center console wins is fiscal '16 sort of the earliest that we may see anything incremental just given design cycles? Or is it possible certain people that maybe have been in the -- in design process and planning for a while I mean is it possible that they -- I mean could Ford add a capacitive screen sooner than that for example? Not that they what would but -- or is that sort of the first incremental revenue -- new revenue that we may see? For new complete programs '16 would be the first year we would -- we could do with that.
The program we just announced would start in '16 and then ramp beyond that.
Now could an automaker switch from a resistive screen to our capacitive screen and do a mid-program change? Yes that could happen.
I think we have to have the screen out there and launched I think before that would happen.
But we're certainly talking to all the OEM that have resistive screens and presenting our technology to them.
And again that's a planned launch with the SUV and then a rolling [ph] change with the trucks.
So we got our first major award there and we continue to pursue others.
So that could happen.
And of course we would announce as that occurred.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the delay in the SUV platform making it more of a staggered rollout does that sort of ease your any potential concerns in terms of executions make it a little bit easier from that standpoint? Or am I looking at a 2 glasses half-full? The launch has changed but the launch schedule has not.
The product introduction date has changed.
The launch schedule has not.
So we're still being held to our deliverables as if schedule hadn't changed.
Now what it does is that if there is some issues we have to do another design validation or something you got a little more leeway to do that.
But we assume that we have to hit our original dates and we move to that.
But we do take some comfort in that.
It puts a little distance between the K2 launch and the SUV launch.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I guess for me.
Just as it relates to capital allocation as you get kind of the end of a lot of these launch costs and a big CapEx year as GM rolls on you should start generating a pretty significant amount of cash.
How do you think about that vis-à-vis acquisitions buybacks dividends et cetera? Okay.
Our first priority with cash is to continue to invest in our businesses in select vertical integration where that make sense where we can save money by vertically integrating or improve our quality systems.
And then as we've said acquisitions are a big part of our strategy.
We haven't done one since '08 but as we launch -- we get the launch of K2 behind us our attention is going to -- and it has been on looking at acquisitions.
We haven't seen anything we wanted to pull the trigger on but that would be the second use of cash.
The dividends we say that's a decision that the board makes every quarter and that's just a quarter-by-quarter decision but it's one that's been made for I think 35 years.
And then aside buyback we've said when we can we like to buy back stock.
That's at least a number of shares that have been issued as far as LTI or anything like that.
I think that would be the order of things.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley Caris.
LLC Research Division</strong> Don I just have a real high-level one for you.
When it comes to electronics infotainment the evolution of connectivity in the vehicle I'm sure you've heard a number of your competitors speak to a need for increased scale frankly a need for consolidation in that space.
So I'm just hoping maybe you can speak to how Methode a smaller player is able to not only continue to be very successful in that segment but to actually win increasingly significant platforms.
And maybe you can also just speak to your views on potential consolidation in the space [ph].
Okay.
Our strategy of vertical integration of almost one-stop shopping for our customers being good at the electronic thing or the software being good at contemporary designs we added decorative painting which is not an easy process to add.
And now we've added capacitive touchscreens.
So to a large degree we've done a lot of that consolidation over the last several years.
But I also think how does a smaller company like Methode end up with some major awards? These programs are not easy to launch.
We've -- you've heard us talk about the issues we've had with the Ford launch.
For the most part they've been transparent [ph] to Ford but -- plus there's some headaches in our factory but that was pretty much viewed by the industry as a very successful program.
Ford is pretty much maxed out on the projected volume.
So the combination of the vertical integration staying on our -- I mean you've heard me talk about it in the presentation.
You got to stay on your technology roadmaps and continue to add features to the center console.
So that coupled with good launch systems and just paying attention to the detail that's what causes us to book business.
The automakers certainly look at price there's no question about that but then they look at capability.
So jury is still out on K2 but we're -- we've done our run up [ph] rates and are about ready to flip the switch.
So the combination of all of that I think makes us a very viable player someone for the competitors to contend with and somebody that the OEMs want to do business with again all things being equal.
In consolidation if you're talking about some of the applications into the center console itself right now we're seeing the automakers keeping that separate the map programs and so on.
And I don't necessarily see that changing.
I can see them relying more on some of the consumer products that are out there today.
But in terms of the integration of the panel I mean I think we've -- we'll continue to add features to it but I think we're as contemporary as anybody else there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And I just have a quick one on your Automotive segment.
On your Other segment could you talk about what drove the sequential margin increase there? And maybe just speak to what's a sustainable gross margin for us to model in that segment going forward? What's driving it is the acceptance of the e-bike in the Europe which is the torque sensor.
The sales of that have done very well so increased sales.
We also -- probably our first major torque sensor program and we continue to take cost out of the product.
We are moving that manufacturing to plants in our Malta mainly because most of the customers are European.
So a combination of the increased sales.
They have a very good prime cost which -- if you've got low purchase content you get a pretty good flow through from the increased sales.
Margin going forward I would -- those are nonautomotive programs so really those continue and then we don't have as much availability to those programs as you might with the I don't know like a K2 program that runs for 5 years.
But assuming those continue the margins are going to stay I would say fairly constant.
Now we've booked a large automotive program.
The volume's going to be much higher but the margins will be -- they would be above average for auto but they're not going to be anywhere near what you're seeing today.
But we're very pleased that that technology has come of age.
We -- Methode made a significant investment over 5 years with the technology and we're starting to see that take off.
We're very pleased with it.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> It's Joe again.
Just on -- 2 last ones having to do with white goods space.
Whirlpool issued kind of expectations for North America industry volumes to be up 2% to 3% so I was thinking about your business.
Is that maybe a fair underlying growth rate? And then on top of that you layer on the phase 2 through 4 launches of the Whirlpool award? So yes I would layer on the Whirlpool award.
We've not seen the volume increase from our -- either of our 2 major customers yet.
And I've read the same report and thus far we've not seen it.
In fact I think they're -- both of them are down year-over-year in what I would say ongoing -- of business that's already launched.
So I'd be cautious about adding 2% to 3% to that because we haven't seen it yet.
That doesn't mean that that's a delay but we haven't seen -- and some of the signs are good.
Housing has improved modestly so perhaps in the second half of '14 maybe we'll see that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the margin front and Interconnect.
I guess I'm surprised you'd take on incremental revenue on a sequential basis but your margins hold flat.
Is that just because you still are occurring kind of launch costs at the initial phase of that launch? And then as we go into fiscal '14 with that incremental revenue or even if Hetronic kind of doesn't move and stays at current levels you could be looking at margin improvement? Hetronic is a big factor in Interconnect.
That's a very profitable business for us.
It's in the Industrial segment.
The -- there's price pressure but not anywhere near what you're going to see in appliance or Automotive.
So that being down is really the contributing factor.
It's -- the launch of the laundry program is certainly helpful at keeping us -- going to keep us flat at least for the fourth quarter here.
You would expect that as we get the laundry launch under our belt that we would see some improvement there.
But that also has a very high prime.
There's a lot of purchase content in the laundry program so there's not as much room for manufacturing efficiencies there.
So it's not going to be exponential.
We may see a point or 2 but it's not going to be exponential.
As I said in my prepared remarks we need Hetronic to -- for their sales to increase because of the profit that's made there.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would turn the call back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you Robin.
We will thank everyone for their questions and wish everyone a very good day.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2013 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectation on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which is our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; customary risks related to conducting global operations; the ability to successfully launch a significant number of programs; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to compete effectively; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; further downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; income tax rate fluctuations; and the cost and implementation of SEC disclosure and reporting requirements regarding complex materials.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Christian and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2013 financial results conference call.
I'm joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
Methode's fourth quarter sales grew over 17% to $148 million and for the year grew nearly 12% to $520 million.
In both periods improved volumes driven mainly by increased sales of lead-frame assembly products and torque-sensing products for e-bikes motorcycles and ATVs as well as new product launches in our European Automotive business and higher appliance sales along with the launch of new programs in our Power Products segment.
These sales improvements were partially offset by softness in our European Industrial business which is a higher-margin business for us.
Methode's fourth quarter net income was $10.2 million or $0.27 per share compared to $5.8 million or $0.15 per share in the same period last year and was impacted by several items which I will summarize from the press release.
During the fourth quarter we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $4.3 million in our Power Products segment related to its assets.
Doug will talk about this more in a few minutes.
Additionally during the quarter we incurred compensation expense related to the tandem cash award component of our long-term incentive program of $2.1 million.
The cash incentives awards that are based on the company's performance in fiscal 2015 will become payable if performance under the restricted stock awards issued in conjunction with the plan exceeds target performance.
This $2.1 million adjustment reflects the company's estimates of fiscal 2015 performance.
We'd also adjusted valuation allowance related to our Malta investment tax credit for a benefit of $7.6 million.
Excluding the impact of the goodwill impairment charge the compensation expense and the Malta valuation allowance Methode's fourth quarter net income was $8.9 million or $0.24 per share.
Fourth quarter earnings improvement was also impacted by higher sales along with lower third-party inspection premium freight and overtime expenses in the Automotive segment higher-than-anticipated income from our torque-sensing business MFT as well as lower selling and administrative and legal expenses.
Fourth quarter earnings were primarily negatively impacted by higher costs related to the design development engineering and launch of the General Motors center console program and severance and building demolition costs in the Automotive segment at Methode's Carthage Illinois facility.
Fiscal '13 net income was $40.7 million or $1.07 per share compared to $8.4 million or $0.22 per share in the same period last year and was impacted by the items I mentioned a moment ago as well as the Delphi settlement.
Excluding the legal settlement the goodwill impairment charge the compensation expense and the Malta valuation allowance Methode's fiscal 2013 net income was $19.5 million or $0.52 per share which was in line with the full year fiscal 2013 guidance.
Full year earnings improvement was also impacted by the items I just discussed as well as commodity pricing adjustments in the Automotive segment and the reversal of a bankruptcy accrual.
Fiscal 2013 earnings were primarily negatively impacted by the items I mentioned for the fourth quarter.
Also costs related to the design development and launch of the General Motors center console program lowered fourth quarter net income by approximately $1.9 million or $0.05 per share and lowered net income for the year by $7.1 million or $0.19 per share.
Launch cost for the year came in higher than anticipated due to higher-than-expected testing costs and product design changes requested by the customer.
As we mentioned last quarter the majority of these costs will be recovered over the 5-year life of the program by pricing adjustments that were negotiated with the customer.
I am very pleased to announce we began production of the General Motors center console for K2 truck platform at the end of April.
To date we have shipped nearly 50 000 units and the program is on track and -- to meet our revenue projections for this fiscal year.
We expect to begin production of the SUV portion of the program in January.
Consolidated gross margins improved 0.5 percentage point in fourth quarter but phenomenally by 30 basis points for the year.
For the fourth quarter margin improvement is driven by higher margins in the automotive power and other segments partially offset by higher launch cost and building demolition and severance cost at our Carthage Illinois facility as well as lower margins in Interconnect due to sales mix.
For the year margins were negatively impacted by increased design development and engineering costs for the General Motors center console program as well as increased sales of Ford center console program which has a higher prime cost due to the higher purchase content.
Additionally the delayed launch of the laundry program in the Interconnect segment as well as manufacturing inefficiencies in our Power segment impacted the full year gross margins.
The development and launch cost for the General Motor center console program lowered automotive gross margins by 2.3% in both fourth quarter and full year.
As we announced in our release this morning we anticipate fiscal 2014 sales in the range of $630 million to $650 million and earnings per share in the range of $0.91 to $1.11.
We anticipate a quarterly sequential improvement in sales gross margins operating margins and earnings throughout fiscal 2014 with the fourth quarter currently expected to be the strongest quarter in terms of each of these metrics.
The low end of the guidance reflects our concern regarding further deterioration of the European economy thereby affecting our higher-margin businesses.
At the high end of the range we would anticipate stabilization in Europe and higher domestic automotive revenues.
We may also see some potential upside from our Power Product segment but this business has limited visibility to its revenue stream.
Turning to a review of our individual segments.
Automotive segment net sales increased 12% in the fourth quarter due to new product launches in Europe and higher sales of all products in Asia.
For the year sales grew 14% due to higher sales of the Ford center console programs and our transmission lead-frame product as well as new product launches in Europe.
While our European Automotive sales did increase I should point out that due to economic conditions in Europe they did not grow to the level originally anticipated.
Automotive segment gross margins improved on fourth quarter but fell slightly for the year.
In both periods automotive gross margins were negatively impacted by the higher prime cost for the Ford center console program as well as costs related to the launch of the General Motors program partially offset by lower costs related to third-party inspection premium freight and overtime expenses and a favorable commodity price adjustment.
Regarding the Wall Street Journal article indicating that Ford was adding back traditional knobs to its center console to our knowledge the current programs will run their program life.
In addition the summer upgrade Ford is announcing for their MyFord Touch also has no effect on our product.
I should also point out that our 2 most recent center consoles awards with General Motors and the French OEM utilize traditional knobs and switches.
Moving to Interconnect.
Sales increased 26% in the fourth quarter and nearly 10% for the year attributable mainly to improved appliance and data solution sales partially offset by lower sales of our radio remote controls as well as the planned exit of a product line at our Asian operation.
Appliance sales improved due to the social launch of all 4 phases of the laundry program.
We anticipate this program to be at a full run rate in the second half of this fiscal year.
Radio remote control sales decreased in Europe due to the ongoing weakness in the European economy.
We anticipate that this will continue in this fiscal year.
The Interconnect's gross margin declined in both periods due mainly to lower Hetronic sales which carry a higher gross margin while Interconnect earnings should continue to improve throughout fiscal 2014 as laundry program reaches for launch.
This segment's margin will likely continue to be impacted by lower sales at Hetronic.
However we do anticipate the segment's gross margin will meet its gross margin target for the fiscal year albeit at the low range -- at the low end of the range again due to sale -- lower sales at Hetronic.
The Power Products segment had a good fourth quarter with sales improving over 23% leading to a 1% improvement for the year.
The launch of a significant program for a datacom customer in the U.S.
along with bus bars for the Nissan lead battery pack and high current bypass which drove the fourth quarter improvement.
However for the year these improvements were offset by significantly reduced military spending delay of new programs and in general much lower volume than we originally anticipated.
While we have limited visibility we do anticipate the fourth quarter run rate will continue at least through the first quarter of fiscal '14.
Power Products gross margins increased in fourth quarter to almost 23% in the full year to 70% mainly due to a favorable product mix partially offset by new product development costs.
Without the new product development cost gross margins would have been 27% in the fourth quarter and 22% for the year.
Now let me summarize some of the new business awards and opportunities that occurred in the fourth quarter.
In our Asian Automotive segment the T-76 lead-frame program has been extended through fiscal 2018 and we have been awarded an additional $75 million in total program revenue for fiscals 2016 through 2018.
Very importantly Methode will maintain its sole store status on this program.
In this segment we're also awarded an overhead dome light assembly using our innovative TouchSensor technology for an Asian OEM with approximately $3 million in annual revenue at full production.
This program has a 4-year program life and we are in discussions to carry over this assembly to other platforms with the same OEM.
Also in Asia we were awarded the additional steering angle business for approximately $2.5 million per year.
Now besides booking over $50 million in additional average annual revenue commencing in Methode's fiscal 2016 as well as successfully launching multiple programs during fiscal 2013 we also continue to focus on developing new technology and processes.
In our Automotive segment our capacitive touch screens had been auto-hardened to meet stringent in-vehicle standards.
We anticipate the screens will begin to be integrated in center consoles on some vehicles commencing in fiscal 2015.
Additionally our highly patented Magneto-elastic technology continue to be prototyped and tested by multiple OEMs for transmission torque measurement.
In our Interconnect segment TouchSensor introduced its LevelGuard Sewerage-Rated Pump Switch based on Methode's patented Field-Effect technology.
The switch is completely solid state offering superior reliability eliminating -- the need for moving parts as in conventional switches.
The Tom Thumb [ph] version introduced last year is quickly becoming the switch of choice.
Also on Interconnect we developed a wireless load pin to target the global industrial market which combines our proven Magneto-elastic sensor technology with Hetronic's proprietary radio frequency technology.
This newly developed battery-operated wireless load pin can sense torque speed and angle and load and is capable of sending real-time measurements directly to the CPU of the machine or to the remote operator interphase.
The wireless load pin will be marketed by Hetronic to our industrial customers for applications such as [indiscernible] cranes wenches concrete pumps and agricultural machines.
We also introduced a process based on our Nano Ink technology which brings a functional electric circuit using conventional ink jet printing equipment thereby potentially reducing the need for conventional circuit boards.
We believe with additional development that this process will be deployed in the production of user interface devices such as those we currently supply to the appliance industry.
And each of these innovations is key to our long-term strategy of providing our customers technology that enhances their products and competitive position and ultimately results in improved margins for Methode.
And finally I'm very proud that in fiscal 2013 Methode was named one of America's 100 Most Trustworthy Companies by Forbes for the second year in a row.
This achievement recognizes the companies that persistently display the most accounting transparency have the lowest incident of high-risk events and have appropriate board supervision.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will provide further detail regarding our financial results.
Doug? Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
Let me add just a few additional comments on the Eetrex goodwill impairment the compensation expense related to the tandem cash awards and the Malta valuation allowance.
Regarding the Eetrex impairment in the fourth quarter we tested the goodwill for reporting units in our Interconnect and Power Products segments.
All but Eetrex which is in the Power Products segment passed the Step 1 test.
We subjected Eetrex to a Step 2 test and determined that its goodwill was impaired based on management's updated projections of Eetrex's discounted cash flows.
We still believe this is a viable business but because of the pushout in cash flows the accounting rules require us to write off the the goodwill.
The charge was $4.3 million.
Moving to the tandem cash awards.
In the fourth quarter we recorded a $2.1 million expense for amounts expected to be paid under our 2010 long-term incentive plan for tandem cash awards.
This expense represents the prorated catch-up expense from October 2010 which is the grant date to the end of fiscal 2013 and is valued at the fiscal year end closing share price of $14.05.
Performance under the tandem cash award is determined by fiscal 2015 enterprise value which is fiscal 2015 EBITDA times 7.5 plus or minus net cash.
The amount accrued is based on management's updated projections of future earnings and the net cash balances and assumes that the company will achieve the maximum level of performance under these awards.
This would result in an enterprise value as defined in the plan equal to or greater than $726.5 million at the end of fiscal 2015.
On the tax benefit in the quarter Maltese tax laws provide for investment tax credit on certain qualified capital spending.
We are required to set up the valuation allowance for the accumulated investment tax credits in excess of amounts that we do not expect to utilize within a reasonable time period.
In the fourth quarter we reduced the valuation allowance by $7.6 million based on management's updated projections of the future taxable income eligible for the Malta credit.
A few additional comments on CapEx and depreciation and amortization.
In fiscal 2013 we spent $38.6 million for capital expenditures.
This was higher than the range given at the end of the third quarter due to certain assets being placed in service more quickly than expected.
Looking forward to fiscal 2014 we expect capital spending to be between $25 million and $30 million.
This includes the additional capital to launch the SUV portion of the K2 program.
Depreciation and amortization expense in fiscal 2013 was $18.8 million.
In fiscal 2014 we expect full year depreciation and amortization to be between $23 million and $25 million.
An important note for -- relating to our guidance.
We anticipate that diluted total shares outstanding will increase by over 1 million shares in our 2014 period due to the inclusion of stock option shares that previously were underwater and therefore excluded from the calculation of diluted shares outstanding.
For 2014 as we mentioned in the release we expect the effective tax rate to be in the mid-teens.
This does not include any adjustments to valuation allowances which could affect our guidance.
Working capital.
Due to the significant increase in sales in fiscal 2014 we do expect to have an increased investment in working capital as inventory receivables and payables increase commensurate with sales.
We also expect to continue to draw on our credit line through 2014 to fund domestic cash needs.
Don those are my remarks.
Doug thank you very much.
Christian we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Steve Dyer with Craig-Hallum.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of different things here.
What drove the upside in the quarter kind of relative to your guidance in Q3 which was part of the way through Q4 then you ended up obviously quite a bit better? Was that kind of the laundry business kicking in sooner than possible or sooner than expected? Or was that sort of a bunch of different things? Or any more color there? So it's -- our lead-frame products in Asia came in higher than we anticipated.
Our MFT products as a torque-sensing product are a little harder to predict that going on e-bikes and ATVs and that's -- we have probably less visibility to that.
Product launches in Europe while they were -- the volumes were down they weren't down as far as we had anticipated.
Appliance came in slightly better.
And then Power Products that's again harder to forecast but the datacom customer took more products than we had anticipated.
And we were of course able to ship that to them.
And that impacted the Power Products so -- And certainly a little bit of -- really across the board the only downside was electronic and that we understand is just something that was from the industrial market in Europe.
But really we did see nice upside from most of the areas in Methode.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess as long as we're -- we touched on Europe.
What's your general sense of things over there? Have we found the bottom? Are we -- what's just generally kind of your thoughts there? I guess that's why you see the range that we gave.
It is very difficult to get a handle on what's going on in Europe.
The Automotive part -- I mean I read one report last week that said things were stabilizing.
And then I read another one that the volumes and the new registrations were going to be down.
So it's really hard to peg that.
And that's why I made the comment in our prepared remarks that on the low end of our range we could see the further impact in Europe.
And then the -- it's almost like the U.S.
consumer confidence.
And in Europe that's I think having a big effect on the car-buying public.
So I apologize I can't give you a better answer than that but...
Research Division</strong> No that's helpful.
So well into your range would incorporate some further deterioration in Europe? That's correct.
That's fair.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to clear something up on the lead-frame award that you announced? Is -- that $75 million is that annually or is that over the life of the program? That would be over 3 years.
I'm going from memory.
I want to say $16 million it adds about $25 million and maybe high change about the same for -- excuse me I said $16 million it should add $25 million and change $17 million and $18 million about the same.
A little lower than $18 million I think.
Research Division</strong> And is that incremental? Actually Steve I'm being corrected it's $28 million.
And each of those 3 years and a little less in the final year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that incremental to the $40 million in lead-frame award that you have right now? That's all new? Yes that would take -- it's incremental and it supports our ramp in '16 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that what's one of the existing customers or new customer? Anything you can share about the customer? It is -- was an existing customer.
It's a -- customer put it out for a competitive bid and at one point looking to have a second vendor and we were successful in winning that award.
It is the 276 lead frame for the GM 6-speed transmission.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay 2 more quick questions.
Any GM revenues in this quarter -- fiscal fourth quarter from the center console program? Up -- just a little under $3 million I believe not significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when might we see the first win for the torque sensors in the -- in light vehicles? Is that a fiscal '14 event fiscal '15 event? I would say it's a '15 event.
We're still in the prototyping stages -- I mean in serious prototyping.
The customers are paying for the prototypes.
It's not -- and they have active programs but we're -- I think we have another 9 to 12 months to go before we get a handle on that and that'll-- early on it might affect '17.
I think that's probably -- the '17 or '18 fiscal year would be affected by that.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple follow-ups here on some of the new business traction.
Really interested to hear you give maybe a little bit more color when you talk about opportunities for your capacitive touchscreen and additional automotive programs I think you said in fiscal year '15.
So if you could just kind of help us quantify that opportunity.
And then maybe also set expectations for the margin profile of that product versus let's say your lead-frame or more integrated center stack solutions? Okay.
It's difficult to give more color on the deployment of the capacitive screen because we really can't say anything until our customer has announced their intentions much like when we announce the GM initial award we couldn't even say it was for pickup trucks.
So I don't know that I can give you any more color on what platforms that will be deploying on.
I apologize but I do have to respect our customers' wishes there.
As far as margin on the touchscreens that's going to vary by program.
But I can tell you that in our margin goals for automotive for '15 we've incorporated some of the capacitive screen being sold to our customers so that will support our margin improvement there.
And then depending on where the next wins come from the screen it'll exhibit probably slightly higher automotive margins and what we have in our target ranges.
And it kind of depends on customers.
It depends on if it's going to be solely -- if we were just selling the capacitive screen on its own or is that being wrapped around a center console.
I don't know if there's any more -- how are you to answer that.
Is there anything [indiscernible]? Research Division</strong> Well in respect to your customers' confidentiality can you maybe point to what geography that award will be in? I think we've said the capacitive screens are going to be deployed in the United States first so that and we certainly can say that.
I can't give you more color on that but we do have MBAs with our customers that I have -- we need to respect.
Research Division</strong> Sure understood.
And then just a question on the guide.
I think your recent conference appearances you've been targeting 7% to 9% operating margins here in fiscal year 2014.
And by my math your guidance implies maybe just a slightly lower rate than that closer to 7% -- or excuse me 6% to 8%.
Is the delta there just that your formal guidance is a bit more conservative than what you're targeting? Or has there been some impairment to your profitability expectations here in '14? No.
I would say perhaps the latter.
But what you're going to see as I said in our remarks is that our operating margins should steadily improve sequentially each quarter.
And that as we've reached the fourth quarter we'll reach the higher end of that range.
So if anything it's just the ramp that's affecting that.
But as I said you're going to see assuming the volumes are where we think they'll be you're going to see a steady ramp quarter-over-quarter throughout this year.
So there's nothing that would change us -- would give -- actually would give us any concern other than the first advice materializing.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question for me.
Just interested to hear more general color about any traction you're seeing in integrated center stock bidding.
Now that you have the K2XX win under your belt and are out shipping that product.
And I guess separately -- or on the other hand if there's been any damage from let's say the more mixed press that the MyFord Touch system has had more recently.
Let me answer the last question first.
As I said the programs we have now are all conventional.
The only program that we had using touch was the Ford program.
And you're right it is mixed press.
Ford is selling a lot of vehicles.
And on any given website or articles you get mixed views on that.
And we've said that that's -- we weren't counting on -- in going forward if that was going to be replace conventional knobs and dials in the vehicle.
We never planned on that.
So if anything it -- our notoriety if that's the correct word with Ford has kind of put us on the roadmap as a premier center console supplier whether that be with Touch or conventional buttons.
And the K2 is I think proof of that strategy working.
As far as more traction in new programs we are obviously pursuing the programs that are available with automakers.
And I'm not doing a good job answering your questions here but I really can't talk about the programs until we booked them.
And again that's usually in these quarterly calls.
But rest assured we're mixing it up with the appropriate automakers that have the programs and the volumes that match our capabilities.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe on the line for David.
Don just a quick question on the last earnings call you talked about having $20 million worth of center console product loaded into the production system.
Your commentary in this call about the 50 000 units.
I don't think that gets you quite to the $20 million mark.
So I'm just wondering 2 months in looking into the July month do you think you'll be closer to the $20 million kind of revenue mark as we close out the quarter? Well the 50 000 was simply -- this is what's been produced.
And I think I did say in our remarks that we're on track for our I think $139 million.
So we're -- I guess all I can say Joe is we're on track.
There's nothing that would in our production system on our releases that would give us any pause that we're going to have a steady ramp here throughout the summer months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess 50 000 units probably brackets the $5 million to $10 million revenue mark I'm guessing.
And so I was just trying to reconcile that against the $20 million count as from last quarter.
So right now we're shipping to 1 of 3 plants.
And then I can't say when the other 2 plants come online here but Joe I just issued guidance.
I'm not sure how much more color to give you there.
Let me tell you this we have sufficient releases loaded into our production system that would support the guidance we just gave.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears on the capacitive touch screen business.
I've always thought that when you look at that product the piece of glass is kind of a higher-cost element which presumably you're going to be sourcing in so the fact that the overall product is going to be realizing a higher margin is that a function of the touch points you underlay with the glass or just a function of the overall pricing of the total product when you incorporate the touchscreen? Our margins the way we've designed the capacitive screen which is somewhat novel from the conventional way of doing that does give us an advantage.
And right now we're buying the screen so we get the growth and the vertical integration which supports the improved margins.
It's a combination of both the way we make it and that we're not procuring the product -- from the outside other than this way itself.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching to the Power Products business.
Just wondering the really strong growth in the quarter particularly in Europe is that pretty much all the Nissan lease product launching? No.
The lease was a portion of it but we saw a very strong shipment to our datacom customer here in the United States and we were very pleased to see that.
That's been a program that we've been working on for quite some time.
And its impact to our margins shows that our strategy of supplying a subsystem versus the street components is starting to get traction and empowers us well.
That's really the first major program we've launched where we're -- we have a bus bar a PowerRail our high-current Interconnect our cabling all wrapped up into one -- several variations of the product but one side of the product.
So that -- Nissan lease was of course a nice win and instrumental in the quarter but I would point more to the datacom business than anything else.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
Just with goodwill write-off and how you think about Eetrex? I understand the calculation and how pushing out the cash flows can result in the impairment but just wondering given the changing expectations for electrified vehicles we've seen over the last couple of years is your optimism or bullishness with Eetrex and that product category as strong as it was maybe 12 or 18 months ago? Well what we did really maybe over a year ago is to refocus them on stationary storage for data centers where we know there's a demand and the need for the lithium ion in the battery backup systems.
And we focus them away from EVs.
And are originally they were providing onboard chargers for the e-vans.
And that's what was providing the cash flow projections.
We were -- at one point we were anticipating I think 300 to 400 units would be shipped.
And I think in the end it was 60 to maybe 70 units.
And so quite some time ago we switched their engineering effort over to stationary storage where we've got a very clear path to market directly to the data centers where in the EVs you're going with the OEs your at best of Tier 1.
So it's really -- we made that switch some time ago but then when we project the cash flows out we have to do the analysis.
And that's what caused the write-off.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to you for any closing comments you may have.
Christian thank you very much.
And we will end the call and wish everyone a pleasant day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you all for your participation.
Good day.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2014 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performances and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which is our annual and quarterly report.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; customary risks relating to conducting global operations; timing quality and cost of new program launches; availability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to compete effectively; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; further downturns in the automotive industry or a bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; the recognition of goodwill impairment and long-lived asset charges; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; income tax rate fluctuations; a breach of our information technology system; and the cost and implementation of SEC disclosure and reporting requirements regarding conflict minerals.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Melissa and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our Fiscal 2014 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
I'm joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas our Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments.
And afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
We were very pleased to report this morning that first quarter sales grew nearly 41% to $167.3 million.
First quarter sales came in higher than we expected due mainly to strong sales for the General Motors and Ford center console programs as well as new product launches in our European Automotive and North American Power Products operations along with strong base appliance sales.
Additionally net income grew over 249% to $13.6 million.
First quarter net income from operations is a quarterly record for Methode in its 47 years of being a public company.
First quarter EPS grew to $0.36 per share compared to $0.10 per share in the same quarter last year.
While higher sales were the largest driver to the year-over-year improvement increased manufacturing efficiencies due to the vertical integration of the paint and laser etch process as well as favorable raw material pricing and a favorable product mix in the Power Products segment also contributed to the remarkable growth in EPS.
First quarter net income was negatively impacted by higher income tax expense as well as increased marketing depreciation and stock award amortization expense over the first quarter of last year.
Additionally during the quarter we incurred increased compensation expense of $1.7 million related to our long-term incentive program.
The long-term incentive awards which are based on the company's performance in fiscal 2015 will become payable if performance under the plan meets or exceeds targeted performance.
This adjustment reflects the company's estimate of fiscal 2015 performance.
Consolidated gross margins improved to 20.3% compared to 18% in last year's first quarter.
Again the largest contributor to the improvement in margins was increased sales but margins were also positively impacted by the vertical integration and favorable raw material pricing and sales mix in the Power Products segment.
Additionally we have been able to reduce our scrap on the Ford center console program and initial scrap costs for the K2XX program have been considerably less than anticipated.
However gross margins were negatively impacted by increased sales of products with a higher material content in the Interconnect segment.
Also of note consolidated SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues decreased to 11.3% from 14.5% in last year's quarter.
We are pleased with the considerable leverage realized given our substantial outrise in sales.
As we announced this morning we have increased fiscal 2014 guidance now anticipating sales in the range of $670 million to $700 million and earnings per share in the range of $1.40 to $1.60.
This replaces our previous guidance of $630 million to $660 million in sales and $0.91 to $1.11 in EPS.
This increase in sales and earnings is based on stronger-than-projected sales for the General Motors K2XX program greater volumes than originally anticipated from new product launches in European Automotive and North American Power an improved sales mix in Power Products stronger-than-expected base appliance sales and higher first quarter sales and earnings than we originally anticipated.
We anticipate the second quarter to be similar to the first quarter in terms of sales and earnings.
In the third quarter typical holiday slowdowns will likely lead to sequentially lower sales and earnings over the second quarter.
But the fourth quarter includes the planned production of the General Motors SUV center consoles.
The low end of the guidance range reflects our concern regarding stabilization in the European economy as well as softening in our Interconnect and Power Products segment sales over those achieved in the first quarter and any potential production delays of new products.
The high end of the range anticipates stabilization in Europe and higher domestic Automotive revenues.
Of particular note we were nearly able to reach our fiscal 2014 fourth quarter operating margin goal in this first quarter as a result of higher-than-anticipated sales lower scrap and greater manufacturing efficiencies than we originally projected.
Therefore based on the new guidance ranges our fiscal 2014 operating margin target would increase to an approximate range of 9% to 10% from the original 7% to 9%.
Before I review our segments I want to spend a moment on our outlook for Europe.
We have seen our European business has stabilized.
And while we anticipate second quarter sales on levels similar to the first quarter current releases are indicating second half sales could be down from the first half.
Now turning to a review of our individual segments.
Automotive segment had sales increase nearly 46% in the first quarter due to production of the General Motors K2XX program as well as higher sales of the Ford center console program.
Additionally new product launches in Europe and higher sales in Asia also contributed to the revenue growth.
First quarter Automotive segment gross margins improved to 18.3% from 13.2% last year due to increased manufacturing efficiencies driven by increased sales and the benefit of the vertical integration.
Based on anticipated sales in this segment we believe fiscal 2014 Automotive gross margins will vary quarter-to-quarter but will likely be in the 17% to 18% range based on geographic mix.
And at this point we would anticipate our fourth quarter gross margin run rate will be nearly 19% for this segment.
Before I move on to Interconnect and I am also very pleased to announce that during the first quarter Methode was awarded a new integrated center console program for a North American OEM.
Production is slated to begin in our fiscal 2017 with annual revenue in the $20 million range.
This award continues to show our strong capability and expertise in the center stack space.
Moving to Interconnect.
Sales increased nearly 38% in the first quarter compared to the same period last year due mainly to improved appliance sales from our 2 largest customers.
Volumes of the new laundry program came in near our expectations.
Of note a consumer report has recently rated 2 versions of this platform as best in class.
Also during the quarter volumes of our base appliance business came in higher than we anticipated.
Radio Remote Controls sales increased modestly over last year due to the acquisition of the Italian dealership.
Interconnect's gross margin declined to 27.2% from 29.3% due mainly to the increased laundry sales which have a higher material content than other products in the segment but this segment's margins should remain stable throughout fiscal 2014.
For margins to improve in this segment we would need to see improved sales in Hetronic's European industrial business.
Additionally we substantially leveraged selling and administrative expenses in this segment which contributed to a 51% rise in Interconnect's income from operations over last year's first quarter.
First quarter Power Products sales improved 43%.
The launch of a significant program for a datacom customer in the U.S.
along with bus bars for the Nissan Leaf battery pack and a high-current bypass switch both in Europe drove the year-over-year improvement.
While we have limited visibility we do anticipate the first quarter run rate will continue at least through the second quarter of fiscal 2014.
Power Products gross margins improved in the first quarter to 22.5% from 16.5% mainly due to favorable product mix and lower raw material costs partially offset by new product development costs.
Without the new product development costs gross margins would have been 26% in the second quarter.
We anticipate this segment will meet its margin target for the year -- and that's actually in the first quarter not the second quarter.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will provide further details regarding our finances.
Doug? Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
I have just a few additional comments on the quarter.
You may recall that in the fourth quarter of last year we began accruing for the tandem cash award portion of the 2010 long-term incentive program.
In the first quarter the expense for the tandem cash awards was $1.1 million.
Of this amount about $800 000 represented the increase in our share price from $14.05 on April 27 to $19 on July 27.
The balance of the expense was due to normal amortization of the awards.
Looking at capital spending.
In the first quarter we spent $9.3 million.
For the full year we expect capital spending to be between $25 million and $30 million.
This includes the additional capital needed to launch the SUV portion of K2XX.
Depreciation and amortization expense in the quarter was $5.7 million.
For the fiscal year we expect the full year depreciation and amortization to be between $23 million and $25 million.
The full year effective tax rate is 8.7%.
This is lower than our previous estimate of the mid-teen number.
This is primarily due to increased domestic income which is sheltered by net operating loss carryforwards.
The effective tax rate does not include any adjustments to valuation allowances which may result from changes in events and circumstances.
Given the guidance we provided today we expect free cash flow to be between $47 million and $57 million.
And then looking at working capital due to the expected significant increase in sales in 2014 we do expect to have increased investments in working capital as inventory receivables payables increase commensurate with sales.
We also expect to continue to draw on our credit line throughout fiscal 2014 to fund domestic cash needs.
Don that concludes my remarks.
Thank you Doug.
Melissa we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley and Company.
Research Division</strong> Don there's been a lot of talk lately about Apple integrating its iOS into the center stack or otherwise having an increased automotive presence.
Can you maybe just speak to what you're planning for in terms of vehicle connectivity how that impacts your business and maybe the value add that you bring to the table in that equation? Sure.
I've said in the past we look at the center console area as us providing the TV if you will.
What content goes on that and what controls are there -- actually what content is up to the automaker and its alliances whether that be with Apple or someone else.
We provide the touchscreen we provide the interface to the other vehicle systems whatever controls are required whether they be touch or conventional.
So our view is that the changes in this space from a content standpoint whether it's bring your own IP be it your cellphone or something that the automotive OEM provides is not as critical to us because we are to a large degree the hardware supplier.
And I don't want to minimize what we do because once we have that center area we also have to integrate with all of the onboard systems and that does require us to write the interface software or I guess the drivers if you will.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Switching over to the K2XX.
First can you confirm that -- and I'm not sure that you can speak to this if you're permitted to but can you confirm that you're shipping to 2 of the 3 facilities now? And when would you expect to ship to all 3? I'd like to answer that but you were right with your original premise that I have to respect our confidentiality agreement with our large customer.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay fair enough.
So I think projections for K2XX volume have ticked up recently from the third-party forecasters.
And obviously we're just seeing very strong overall truck demand in recent months.
Can you maybe just highlight how those projections perhaps offset by some European adjustments would impact your FY '15 booked revenue figure? Let me talk about Europe first.
That's still a large question mark I think for everyone.
We've seen -- as I said in the prepared remarks we've seen some stabilization but we've also seen some reduced releases for our third and fourth quarters.
So that remains a question mark and I suspect it will remain that as we move into fiscal '15.
As far as domestic auto sales and K2 we will update our revenue chart here in November based on our knowledge of releases and of course the published data.
But at this point I think I'll just comment on our '14 and we'll -- in a couple months here we'll be announcing where we think we'll end up in '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one for me and then I'll pass it off.
I think you mentioned Q4 Automotive gross margins are expected to be roughly 19%.
Is your expectation still that you could drive that figure into the low 20s in fiscal '15? And if so maybe you can just speak to what's driving that next leg up.
Okay.
Yes with our -- our expectations are into the low 20s in '15.
The vertical integration of the touchscreen will be a big help there.
We solved the vertical integration of the [indiscernible] process.
That helped margins and particularly in this quarter so that we anticipate we'll get a good increase from that integration.
And we'll have a full year of K2 and SUV as well.
So we'll have the increased volumes.
And we continue as a matter of standard practice continue to drive costs out of our manufacturing systems.
So between those 3 we would anticipate we're going to hit that margin goal.
And we have programs today that we've identified that if we make this change we will reduce this cost although it takes us 6 to 12 months to implement all that.
Most of the time you need customer approval.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Dyer with Craig-Hallum.
Research Division</strong> As you look at the increase in guidance I'm wondering if it's possible that you could sort of bucket that -- the impact of that in terms of how much of that is maybe a little bit better in earlier K2 launch than expected.
How much of it is Ford just selling a lot of the models that you're on and maybe how much is Europe sort of stabilizing relative to a quarter ago? Well no question that we have increased sales in K2 than we originally anticipated.
And if you go back to when we were preparing our original guidance we had very little visibility to the production requirements we were going to be in and no history.
So now we have a little more of that but it is a huge launch.
And as we move forward we'll continue to garner history and probably a little more predictability.
Ford was higher in the quarter than we anticipated.
It's not for me to say whether that continues.
There's a lot of data that's out there on both the K2 and Ford.
New product launches in Europe last year we had new launches in the first -- with the first quarter.
They didn't come in as high as we thought.
So this quarter they actually exceeded the expectations.
But a little more color on the volatility in Europe if I go back not too many months ago and look at production releases for Europe for the first quarter they were below our expectations that we were anticipating and factored into our guidance.
And then it actually came in through the quarter much stronger than we anticipate now.
Whether that continues is a question mark.
We're saying the second quarter will be similar perhaps slightly down.
But third and fourth quarter which we saw last year we had a pretty good first half last year in Europe and the second half was down.
So -- but net-net contributing to the increases is that it is higher year-over-year than we had anticipated.
And Power in the U.S.
is also -- where we're launching a product for a datacom customer and those -- which was a 2.5-year almost 3-year project and those projections which are difficult to predict came in much higher and we anticipate that can continue at least through the second quarter.
And as I said in my remarks we have very limited visibility beyond that.
And then base appliance sales which we felt would improve at some point this year and this is the non-laundry business came in higher.
And I would -- I guess I would cite the slight recovering in housing for that.
And that will likely continue through the year.
I don't know Doug if there's anything else you'd add to that? I think that's everything on the sales side.
And then net earnings has flowed through from them.
We did lower taxes on them than we anticipated.
Doug commented on that.
And there was also a decrease in shares outstanding.
And then also as we move forward as long as we can maintain our scrap rate on the K2 launch which still is in a significant ramp that is a strong contributor to earnings.
And I congratulate the team on that.
There's no such thing as a flawless launch in this business but this one came as -- knock on wood came as close to it as possible so I'd be remiss if I didn't congratulate our team.
So long-winded answer but I hope it gives you some color where -- what we used to develop the new guidance.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful color.
With respect to Ford they just announced I think in the last couple of days that they're bringing the MyFord Touch to Europe.
Is that somewhere that you would hope to play or would you -- any reason why you wouldn't? Our business with Ford in Europe is in hidden and some visible switches.
We do not have at this point a center console program for them.
But it would certainly be an opportunity for us on future vehicles.
There's no question that we're pursuing that.
We are not on anything right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- I don't want you to have to speak for GM but I understand that your expectation is for the SUV portion of the K2 to kick off sort of on time early next year.
That's still the thought there? Yes we are on schedule.
Our job is to meet our deliverables to the customer and those dates are cast in stone and we've been hitting those.
We just had our run rate on that and that went very well so we are on schedule.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question and I'll turn it over.
You announced the $20 million annual center stack win.
Any other new business announcements of any materiality that you'll add to that chart you were talking about of booked business? Well we will -- the chart in November we will update for all of the wins we've had over the last year.
Those have been announced.
There were some other minor wins in the quarter but not enough that we would remark on the call.
It is too soon to tell whether that will be new annual business or one-off type business so we usually don't comment on that.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> On the revenue upside I know you talked about the launch.
I was wondering on the Automotive side I mean you had strong revenue performance in all the business but in the Auto with the K2XX.
Is that because the pace of the ramp has been faster than what you were expecting? Or is there a mix item going on there of higher content that take rates versus others? It was higher than we anticipated.
But as I said earlier we had very little visibility as we went into the program.
And really month over month through the quarter we saw the demand ramp at a higher rate than we anticipated.
It's -- I don't know what more I can say.
There's been a lot published on the K2 launch and we put our guidance together based on what we knew at the time.
And so obviously it was -- it ended up higher than we had anticipated.
I don't know if that was higher than GM anticipated but that's -- and I guess I'd point it to them.
I mean how much was pipeline filled how much was mix that's very hard to say.
We don't know.
It's not tagged as pipeline filled it's produced x part number and deliver it next week.
Research Division</strong> Is your content the same on all of the vehicles or is -- that there really isn't a mix issue here at all? Well there is -- some versions have a CD player some don't.
Some have a 4-inch screen some have an 8-inch screen.
We're one for one so every pickup truck GM makes will have a center console arm but that does vary slightly by the configuration of the vehicle.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it doesn't...
Obviously an 8-inch screen would carry a higher price but not significant -- the margin is not that much more significant because all we're doing is substituting one screen for another.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the total size of the K2XX opportunity is -- that hasn't really changed it's just the timing of when you're going to get there? Yes.
I guess I would point to what's been published on -- what LMC has on K2.
We'd look at that.
And then ultimately we will rely more on history for our projections.
But right now we need to look at the published data.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on Europe the business that you're launching there on switches I think that's with Volkswagen.
Is there anything else that's going on -- going through there? I don't have the list in front of me.
Hidden switches and visible switches there's some electro part [ph] brake switches for Volvo; obviously as we've mentioned Volkswagen; Fiat.
There's a McLaren launching of a smaller volume.
A combination of hidden and visible.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Doug on the cash flow we usually do numbers off of last 12 months sales.
And with the surge in sales here that becomes pretty much a meaningless number here.
But as we look at the working capital receivables inventory payables those seem to be tracking pretty much with the revenue number.
Are you happy with where those are falling here in the quarter? Yes.
No they're falling in line as we expected they would and especially with the increase in the sales volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then where do you think you hit a point that you'll become cash flow-neutral change in that -- actually generating cash instead of using cash? It sounds like there's still some pretty healthy capital spending going on the next couple of quarters for the SUVs.
Yes.
The -- again the increased sales will help.
But we were still looking at kind of...
Inventory.
Yes.
I mean again looking at North America and the -- our borrowings will still be burning cash.
Consolidated we will be cash flow-positive so...
Research Division</strong> But that is in what time period? By this fiscal year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the tax rate where are you on that -- the booking time in terms of being able to reverse the valuation allowance? How many more quarters do you need to go? We can't really comment on that because that's a -- yes because we just -- every quarter we'll test we'll look at the tax and circumstances and changes and if it's appropriate then we'll adjust the valuation allowance.
But it's hard and we can't sit here -- if I could tell you today then I would have booked it.
So it's just we follow the accounting rules.
Research Division</strong> How many quarters have you been profitable in the U.S.
now? I don't think we have been profitable.
Maybe this quarter? Yes.
That's about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the last item.
If everything is going very smoothly for you is there any challenges that you've run in into on the launch on either the Automotive non-Automotive businesses there where there's some challenges and things you need to overcome? It looks like everything has gone pretty well though.
It's gone very well but there's always challenges.
It's -- often times it's how quickly the team responds to it and -- is what determines whether it becomes a major issue or not.
There's been supply issues there've been late changes made to the product.
Those are all routine things but they present challenges both to our suppliers and to our manufacturing but there has been -- and I get daily reports and we're talking about one of this one of that.
I had an issue we had just earned a line testing for some things but now there has been nothing.
And as I said to Steve we are very pleased with the team's performance.
They've definitely learned from the issues that we had with the Ford launch and this one has been unremarkable.
And that's what our customers commented on it and our results show that.
So as we -- as I speak there is nothing and I hope that remains that way.
We have a lot of checks and balances in place to make sure that we don't have an issue.
And if we do it's the strength of the team that will respond to that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's great news.
I'm going to sneak in one more item here.
If we take the midpoint of your guidance it implies with the first quarter numbers Q2 3 and 4 is somewhere between $0.35 and $0.40.
Is there anything we should be aware of that is going to move one quarter one way or the other relative to -- just averaging that through the rest of the year? Our visibility in Power is limited.
We're looking -- we're in already to the second quarter so we have some visibility to what's going to be produced there.
That could -- if you run rate the first quarter in and add SAE [ph] you get -- kind of get to a midpoint.
But the lack of visibility in the second half on Power and as I've said a couple of times now Europe is still a big question mark so that could add or subtract to that.
And then you do have to take into account the Christmas the holiday season those have an effect.
We've seen that year-after-year.
Mr.
Duda there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to you for any closing comments.
Okay.
Thank you Melissa and we'll just close up by wishing everyone a pleasant holiday coming up.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
This concludes today's teleconference.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2014 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflects management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause these actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including 2 large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; customary risks related to conducting global operations; timing quality and cost of new program launches; ability to avoid design and manufacturing defects; ability to compete effectively; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; further downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; the recognition of goodwill impairment and long-lived asset charges; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; income tax rate fluctuations; a breach of our information technology systems; and the cost and implementation of SEC disclosure and reporting requirements regarding conflict minerals.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Jesse and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2014 second quarter financial results conference call.
I'm joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
We were very pleased to report this morning that second quarter sales grew 47% to $190.9 million and 6 months sales grew 44% to $358.2 million.
Second quarter and first half sales came in higher than we expected due mainly to strong sales for the General Motors center console programs as well as new product launches in our European Automotive and North American Power Products operations along with strong appliance sales.
As a reminder in the second quarter of last year we recorded a $20 million litigation settlement which substantially benefited our profitability last year.
Excluding the impact of that settlement and its effect on income tax expense second quarter net income grew nearly fourfold to $19.8 million or $0.51 per share.
For the first half net income also grew nearly fourfold to $33.4 million or $0.87 per share again excluding the settlement.
While higher sales were the largest driver to the year-over-year improvement in both periods increased manufacturing efficiencies due to the vertical integration of the paint and laser etch process favorable raw material pricing and a favorable product mix in the Power Products segment and lower income taxes also contributed to remarkable growth in earnings.
Second quarter and first half net income was negatively impacted by increased marketing travel and legal expenses compared to last year as well as the absence of a customer bankruptcy accrual reversal in the year-ago quarter.
Additionally we incurred increased compensation expense of $2.7 million during the second quarter and $4.4 million in the first 6 months related to our long-term incentive program.
The long-term incentive awards which are based on the company's performance in fiscal 2015 will become payable if performance under the plan meets or exceeds targeted performance.
This adjustment reflects the company's estimates of fiscal 2015 performance.
Second quarter consolidated gross margins improved to 21.7% compared to 17.2% last year.
For the 6 months consolidated gross margins improved to 21% from 17.6% in the same period of fiscal 2013.
Again the largest contributor to improvement in margins was increased sales but margins were also positively impacted by the vertical integration favorable raw material pricing and sales mix in the Power Products segment as well as lower scrap on the Ford center console and General Motors K2 programs.
However gross margins were negatively impacted by increased sales of products with a higher material content in the Interconnect segment.
Also of note consolidated SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues decreased to 10.3% from 11.7% in last year's second quarter.
And for the first half it dropped to 10.8% from 13.1% in fiscal 2013.
We are pleased with the considerable leverage realized given our substantial rise in sales.
As we announced this morning we have increased fiscal 2014 guidance now anticipating sales in the range of $720 million to $750 million and earnings per share in the range of $1.70 to $1.90.
This replaces our previous guidance of $670 million to $700 million in sales and $1.40 to $1.60 in EPS.
This increase in sales and earnings is based on higher second quarter sales in earnings than we originally anticipated stronger than originally projected fiscal 2014 sales for the General Motors K2 program offset by anticipated softer second half European sales.
The low-end of the guidance reflects our concern regarding stabilization in the European economy as well as potential softening in our Interconnect and Power Products segments over those achieved in the first half and possible production delays of new products.
The high-end of the range anticipates stabilization in Europe and higher domestic automotive revenues and as I mentioned on last quarter's conference call current releases are indicating that second half European sales will be below the first half.
Based on the new guidance ranges our fiscal 2014 operating margin target increases to an approximate range of 9.5% to 10.5% from the 9% to 10% we discussed last quarter.
Now turning to review of our individual segments.
Compared to last year Automotive segment net sales increased 57% in the second quarter and nearly 52% in the first half due mainly to production of the General Motors K2 program.
Additionally new program launches in Europe and higher sales in Asia also contributed to the revenue growth.
The second quarter improvement was partially offset by lower sales at the Ford center console program year-over-year.
At this point we anticipate sales in the Ford center console program in the second half of this year to be approximately 10% lower than the first half which we have taken into consideration in our updated guidance.
Second quarter Automotive gross margins improved to 19.7% from 14.8% last year and first half gross margins increased to 18.9% from 14.1% year-over-year.
In both periods increased manufacturing efficiency is driven by higher sales and the benefit of the vertical integration produced improved margins.
Based on anticipated sales in this segment we believe fiscal 2014 Automotive gross margins will vary quarter-to-quarter but will likely be in the 19% range.
I am also are very pleased to announce that during the second quarter Methode was awarded a new integrated center console program for North American OEM with final product delivery to South America and Asia.
Production is slated to begin in our fiscal 2017 with annual revenue in the $15 million range.
This award continues to show our capability and expertise in the center stack space.
Moving to Interconnect.
Sales increased nearly 31% in the second quarter and over 34% in the first 6 months compared to last year attributable mainly to improved appliance sales from our 2 largest customers.
Volumes for the new laundry program came in near our expectations.
Radio Remote Controls sales were flat in both the second quarter and first half year-over-year.
Compared to last year Interconnect's gross margin grew slightly to 25.7% from 25.5% in the second quarter due to manufacturing efficiencies but fell slightly in the first half to 26.2% from 27.5%.
Increased laundry sales which have higher material content than other products in the segment had the biggest impact on margins.
For margins to improve in this segment we would need improved sales in Hetronic's European industrial business.
Additionally we substantially leveraged selling and administrative costs which contributed to a 68% increase in Interconnect's income from operations in the second quarter and a 57% improvement in the first 6 months.
Moving to Power Products.
Year-over-year sales improved nearly 50% in the second quarter and almost 47% in the first half.
The launch of a significant program for datacom customer in the U.S.
along with bus bars for the Nissan Leaf battery pack and a high-current bypass switch both in Europe drove the growth over last year.
While we have limited visibility we do anticipate this run rate will continue at least through the third quarter of fiscal 2014.
Power Products gross margins increased in the second quarter to 26.2% from 12% last year and in the first half to 24.1% from 14.2% year-over-year.
The improvement was driven by a favorable product mix as well as lower raw material and lower new product development costs.
We anticipate this segment will meet its margin targets over the fiscal year.
Before turning the call over to Doug I would like to briefly discuss the updated revenue chart we posted on our website and filed as a Form 8-K this morning.
These sales projections are as of today for fiscal years 2014 to 2017.
As new business awards -- our business opportunities are awarded we will as we have in the past announce a significant awards on our quarterly conference calls.
On the revenue chart the opportunities in fiscal's 2016 and 2017 include pending automotive wins sales from new products and current opportunities in non-Automotive business.
Of note Methode's compounded annual growth rate from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2017 is approximately 16% based on these projections.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who'll give further details regarding our financial results.
Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
I have just a few brief comments on the quarter.
In the second quarter in SG&amp;A Don mentioned the long-term incentive expense the expense for the tandem cash awards was $1.7 million.
This expense primarily reflects increase in our share price during the second quarter.
And that would continue as we -- the stack fluctuates until the end of our fiscal 2015.
For the first 6 months we spent $16.5 million for capital expenditures.
For the full year we continue to expect capital spending to be between $25 million and $30 million.
This includes the additional capital needed to launch the SUV portion of the K2 program.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the 6-month period was $11.5 million.
For the fiscal year we expect full year depreciation and amortization to be between $23 million and $25 million.
For the full year the effective tax rate is $7.6 million.
This is lower than our previous estimates due primarily to increased domestic income which is sheltered by net operating loss carryforwards.
The effective tax rate does not include any adjustments to valuation allowances which may result from charges -- changes in events and circumstances.
Looking at free cash flow for the full year.
Given our guidance that we put out this morning we would expect that to be between $65 million and $75 million.
Don that's all I have.
Thank you very much.
Jesse we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is common from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Joe online for David.
Just on the updated revenue targets today on the pathway to $925 million down the road.
Can you maybe talk more about what meaningful products contribute to reaching that target? And are there technologies or product lines that are maybe smaller today but could be more meaningful 3 to 4 year to now thinking along the same veins what the center console business has done? Sure.
First off we continue to book for '16 and '17 automotive products although '16 will be tapering off here shortly.
But I can tell you that we're in negotiation on probably $14 million of $15 million of business for '16 that contributes to that $77 million we're showing there.
That's hidden switches and various products of ignition switches is one various products are like that.
And then in '17 we continue to book center console business that we announced a little bit ago.
And then on top of that as we've detailed in your conference a month or so ago transmission lead frames that we have today and employ of business with we will continue to book that.
10 gigabit transceivers for datacom that would be a new product that would be introduced next year we talked about that in our presentation.
I think that presentation is on our website new Power Products those are not launched.
Those will be introduced at a tradeshow early next year for datacom customers.
And then to the last part of your question the De Beer [ph] therapeutic [ph] support which I think we have 2 pages of information on that on the presentation that will launch next year and that could certainly be a major contributor along the lines of center stacks.
Research Division</strong> You think It could be on the same magnitude as center consoles? If you do the research on press real sources there's a very very large market.
Yes it does have that potential but we've not launched the product yet so I'm not willing to say exactly what.
But if you do the math it's a very large opportunity.
Research Division</strong> Okay interesting.
Maybe just looking at the free cash this year $65 million to $75 million.
It seems like you're just scratching the surface of opportunities in the Datacom markets.
Would you maybe consider an acquisition to grow further? Or do you think the same as you have in-house and the portfolio right now are enough to grow quite comfortably? Well acquisitions clearly are part of our strategy.
And so we would certainly consider that.
We've commented before that we look for tuck-in acquisitions as well as major acquisitions so something that would further the technology look after market and data would be a welcome opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe shifting over to the margin side.
Right now your earnings are running at basically $2 annualized and thinking about the margin targets the automotive business is basically running at your fiscal 2015 gross margin targets.
So would it be fair to say that you've been executing above the original plan and maybe some of these margins targets moved higher so Automotive is now 25% a mid-20% gross margin type business? No I don't think I would go that far as far.
There's a lot of pressure in automotive.
I think we'll stick with our target of low-20s.
And we are -- we came out-of-the-box better than we thought because really a lower scrap of vertical integration went very well but I don't know how much more above that we're going to get.
So I think we'll stick with where we are there.
Research Division</strong> And then my last one if I just look at SG&amp;A and strip out the incentive comp program it basically looks like you're still running at 2008 to 2011 levels but your revenues are about 2/3 higher than that time period.
So is this level sustainable or would you expect maybe a slow creep? Well SG&amp;A absolute dollars will grow but we would expect to continue to get the leverage from a percentage standpoint.
We back in '08 and '09 we said we purposely maintained a very high SG&amp;A level why we sought the new business and then launch that new business.
So going forward we should continue to get the leverage from that.
That's an integral part of our business plan going forward.
Our next question is coming from the line of Steve Dyer with Craig-Hallum.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Have you begun shipping the SUV portion of the GM program yet? I can't answer that.
Research Division</strong> I'm asking in a way that -- I'm trying to ask in a delicate way.
Would you anticipate that you will have shipped in this quarter? Let me answer it this way.
We have performed our run add rate for our customer and passed with flying colors so that is the final step towards production and we are filling our pipeline now.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
I noticed earlier this week the new Honda Civic is shipping with a capacitive touch screen which strikes me as a little bit surprising given the price point and so forth of that vehicle.
Are you seeing more opportunities sort of downstream on the capacitive touch screen front? Yes we are.
Yes.
Because it is a desirable feature in a vehicle it provides for a more responsive touch for the customer and it's not an easy -- not so an easy changeover but it can be accomplished without having to redo your whole center console.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then I noticed on the torque sensor business you exclude that here from your revenue waterfall.
Is there any particular reason for that? Do you feel sort of less bullish than you have or you just don't have any wins yet? Or how do you...
Oh no not at all.
We're still very bullish on the technology but we had said in the past that we thought that those wins or revenues would come in the fiscal '18 timeframe so we'd be a year out from '17 or from the chart that we just published.
But no we're still pursuing business there and providing funded prototypes to customers.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And sort of speaking of that chart I know sort of one of the pluses and the minuses I guess both is that you have great visibility but there's not a lot of opportunity to influence that necessarily one way or the other.
But I noticed that fiscal '15 has increased from $720 million the last time you showed that chart to $800 million now.
Sort of what accounts for that given that it's obviously not necessarily new revenue or new wins per se? We have more visibility into K2 and SUV 31X so that adjustment was made.
Our Power Products have new products that have been successful laundry program so it's just we've got another years closer to '15 and adjusted the numbers accordingly.
And then I think we've point out at the chart that we're using LMC Automotive data for our forecast.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay makes sense.
And the last question just going back to the center console.
I'm assuming you feel like you have enough sort of engineering time now that the K2 peg has move in through the pipeline so the speak that you're aggressively bidding out sizable programs kind of in the '15 '17 '18 timeframe.
That's one of the things we point out to our customers on a regular basis and we've got several successful launches behind us and we have the engineering prowess and the capability to launch more programs for them.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then I guess one quick last one.
Cash flow as was mentioned is starting to build pretty nicely balance sheet is going to be already is impressive but it's only going to get better.
Other than acquisitions any thoughts for management on that? We continue to invest in our businesses.
We've detailed in our recent presentation some of the technologies we're working on.
So first and foremost we'll support our new business ventures with capital as needed.
We continue to have a dividend that take a one quarter at a time but we paid one for 35 years and acquisitions are key to us.
And you talk about '15 we want to have a meaningful impact on '15 dual acquisition even if it's a tuck-in acquisition.
That would be certainly support our growth in '15 beyond what we'll get from our current wins.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley.
Research Division</strong> So Don just a follow-up on the margin questions earlier.
I think in your most recent presentation it stated a 10% to 11% operating margin target for fiscal '15.
But as you've mentioned today the new fiscal '14 guidance suggests at least the low-end of that target is likely in play here in fiscal '14.
So I guess in light of that how would you update your operating margin target for '15? And then even looking out a couple years do you think you'd be running at maybe a mid-teens operating margin as you work towards the gross margin goals on higher volume? What kind of leverage are you expecting? Okay.
Let me answer the first with the second half of your question first.
We -- the new products that we've introduced or will be introducing are all geared to improving our margins.
We've said publicly we target a 1% margin increase per year.
We feel we'd be doing well if we could do that I think that still holds.
I think we want to see how in the later years of '16 and '17 we want to see how these new products go on and what kind of margins we get from that.
As to next year I think I'll stick to my comment that 1% year-over-year increase is something we've targeted and we'll take a look at that as we get closer to '15 and the guidance.
I'm just very pleased that the number of initiatives we put in place aside from the sales increase but the number of initiatives that we put in place in our factories in our business units are allowing us to get close to what we've set for next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if I remember correctly I think on the last conference call when we were about halfway -- excuse me a third of the way through the second quarter you were looking for Q2 sales to be roughly flat sequentially and yet you ended up posting a 14% quarter-over-quarter gain.
I'm just trying to understand the drivers of the variance.
Because it seems like the strength came from Automotive where you would typically have pretty good visibility 9 weeks forward.
Were you just not trusting the release that you were seeing at that time? Or were you maybe -- in other words I guess you may be overly conservative in discounting those? Or did you see a real strong push late in the quarter from your customers? Just trying to understand the variance from the last guide.
Okay.
Let's talk about sales first.
Auto sales -- worldwide auto sales were higher than we forecasted when we provided the guidance.
I think that we're into some degree outside of territory on K2.
We can't look back a year ago and look at sales.
And that's a key contributor to our forecast so at the time we looked at what releases we have what information we had and we roll up a worldwide forecast and that's what we based our guidance on.
And if I look at the non-Automotive [indiscernible] TouchSensor Power Products they're all pretty much where we anticipated them to be.
It was the worldwide auto sales that came in higher than what we had forecasted.
And then earnings and margin I agree it really just falls through from the auto sales or factory efficiencies were slightly better than we anticipated wayward commodity prices.
And we also had lower taxes.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Please go ahead go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Just digging into the K2 a little bit further And I think you alluded to this on the no response to why the favorable revision to fiscal '15 revenue.
I think heading into fiscal '14 you were looking for $139 million in sales this fiscal year from that program including $29 million for the SUV and then you saw that ramping to $216 million by fiscal '16.
Can you update those projections given what you've experienced so far and what the updated volume projections are for the program? Well at this point we will direct you to the published data on GM LMC and others.
I can't because we're in production I really can't comment on what that customer releases are.
But I can tell you that we've taken that into account in our increased guidance and our projections for '15 and beyond.
And '15 and beyond is based on LMC data and the $139 million that would obviously increase if we were to redo that number.
But again since we are in production now I'd refer to large amount of data that's put out on GM.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can just maybe give Doug a chance to speak here.
Can you just maybe give us a view on how the tax rate will evolve over the next -- well not just through the balance of this year but over the next couple of years and the cash tax variance as your profitability mix shifts by geography.
And then also what's the share count assumption for the shares guide just a housekeeping item.
Sure.
The share count guidance I think 38.4 million is what we're using currently Jimmy.
On the tax side yes our tax rate currently is about 7.6% the effective tax rate which is lower than we had last quarter.
And again that's driven by the upside in domestic revenue domestic earnings and we're still benefiting from the net operating loss carryforwards in the U.S.
What will happen eventually when the NOL is consumed we expect the tax rate to jump up probably to around a 20% tax rate.
And in our Q we added some additional disclosure about the fact that we don't have the luxury of just letting the NOL be consumed until it's expired but the accounting rules will require us to pick up a tax benefit when we get to the point where we can fully -- we feel very comfortable that we will benefit from the utilization of the NOL.
So what will happen is that would be an event that happens in some future quarter for us.
But I think going forward with life after the NOL we're looking at about a 20% tax rate.
The next question is coming from the line of Mason Jones [ph] with Emerald Advisers.
So I was just curious it seems that there was some anticipation that the actual production issues for the K2XX platform was going to have somewhat of a negative impact on your results this quarter.
Can you kind of just talk a little bit about why didn't really seem to impact you in any way? Are you referring to the American axle? Yes.
Well I don't know.
I don't want to speak for American axle I certainly don't want to speak for GM.
Well I guess better way to phrase that is it seems that there were downward revisions across the board on what the production looked like coming into October.
So I guess that you would have expected that would have been impacted the guidance that you had planned for.
We ship what the customer releases to us and we had arranged and we were -- actually we ended up outside that range on the high-end.
And I'm trying to answer your question but it's difficult.
We're in -- as I said to Jimmy we're in uncharted territory.
I can't look back a year ...
Okay.
So it's mostly because you didn't have anything to go off from a year ago is that correct? That's correct.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Duda for concluding comments.
Jesse thank you very much.
We'll thank everyone for listening and wish everybody a safe and pleasant holiday season.
Good day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2014 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only-mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode’s expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause these actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode’s Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including two large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries; customary risks related to conducting global operations; timing quality and cost of new program launches; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to compete effectively; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; dependence on our supply chain; downturns in the automotive industry or the bankruptcy of certain automotive customers; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to withstand price pressure; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; the recognition of goodwill impairment and long-lived asset charges; currency fluctuations; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to withstand business interruptions; income tax rate fluctuations; a breach of our information technology systems; and the cost of implementation of SEC disclosure and reporting requirements regarding conflict materials.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Stacy and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2014 third quarter financial results conference call.
I'm joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
We were very pleased this morning to report that third quarter sales grew 54% to nearly $190 million and nine months sales grew 48% to approximately $548 million over last year.
Sales in both periods were driven by the General Motors center console program as well as new product launches in our European Automotive and North American Power Products operations as well as strong appliance sales.
Also of note consolidated SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues decreased to 11.6% from 12.9% in last year’s third quarter and for the nine months dropped to 11.1% from 13% in fiscal 2013.
We were pleased with the considerable leverage realized given the substantial rise in sales.
Third quarter net income grew over fourfold to $14.6 million or $0.38 per share.
As a reminder in the second quarter of last year we recorded a $20 million litigation settlement which substantially benefited our profitability.
Excluding the impact of that settlement and its effect on income tax expense nine months net income also grew greater than fourfold to $48 million or $1.26 per share.
While higher sales were the largest contributor to year-over-year improvement in both periods increased manufacturing efficiencies due to the vertical integration of the paint and laser etch process and favorable raw material pricing and a favorable product mix in the Power Products segment also contributed to the growth in earnings.
Third quarter and nine months net income was negatively impacted by increased bonus legal travel and product development expenses.
The nine month period was also affected by the absence of a customer bankruptcy accrual reversal in the year-ago second quarter.
Additionally we incurred increased compensation expense of $1.6 million or $0.04 per share during the third quarter and $4.6 million in the first nine months related to our long-term incentive program.
The long-term incentive awards which are based on the Company's performance in fiscal 2015 will become payable if performance under the plan meets or exceeds targeted performance.
This adjustment reflects the Company's estimates of fiscal 2015 performance.
Third quarter consolidated gross margins improved to 20.3% compared to 16.3% last year.
For the nine months consolidated gross margins improved to 20.8% from 17.2% in the same period of fiscal 2013.
Again the largest contributor to improvement in margins was increased sales but margins were also positively impacted by the vertical integration operational improvements in the Power Products segment as well as lower scrap on the Ford center console and General Motors K2 programs.
I’d like to spend a minute now discussing our results in the third quarter in comparison to the second quarter.
While third quarter sales were only about $1 million lower than in the second quarter profitability was $0.13 lower in the third quarter.
As we’ve discussed in the past our third quarter typically includes about one week without sales due to the holidays.
However we still incur operational and overhead expenses during that week which reduces our margins and impacts profitability.
In other words the second quarter consists of 13 weeks and the third quarter was 14 weeks in length that extra week having no sales due to the holidays.
On a consolidated basis one week of expenses without sales represents about 0.7% of gross margin.
Adding that back to the third quarter reported margins the consolidated gross margin would have been 21% in the third quarter on par with our second quarter gross margins.
The holiday shutdown also impact SG&amp;A increasing that measure as a percentage of sales.
Combined the holiday shutdown affected EPS on a sequential basis approximately $0.05 per share.
Additionally the Interconnect and Power Products segments experienced both lower sales of $3.7 million combined as well as an unfavorable product mix.
That together costs about $0.05 per share in EPS in the third quarter.
Based on current projections we anticipate that fourth quarter revenues and margins in the segments will be similar to the third quarter down sequentially from the second quarter basically flat with the third quarter.
The balance of the difference in earnings between second and third quarters is the higher legal and professional services expense of about $0.03 per share.
Moving to guidance as we announced this morning we’ve reiterated fiscal 2014 sales guidance in the range of $720 million to $750 million and earnings per share guidance in the range of a $1.70 to $1.90.
As we’ve said in the past the low end of the guidance reflects our concern regarding stabilization of the European economy as well as softening in our Interconnect and Power Products segments and possible production delays of new products.
The high-end of the range anticipates stabilization in Europe and higher domestic automotive revenues.
Based on this guidance range our fiscal 2014 operating margin target is in the range of 9.5% to 10.5% which would be a substantial improvement over the 3.7% achieved in fiscal 2013 excluding the litigation settlement.
Now turning to a review of our individual segments.
Compared to last year Automotive segment net sales increased nearly 74% in the third quarter and 59% in the nine month period due mainly to production of the General Motors K2 program.
Additionally new program launches in Europe and higher sales in Asia also contributed to the revenue growth.
Third quarter Automotive gross margins improved to 19.3% from 12.5% last year and nine months gross margins increased to 19% from 13.6% year-over-year.
In both periods increased manufacturing efficiencies driven by higher sales as well as the benefit of the vertical integration produced improved margins.
Selling administrative costs as a percent of sales dropped year-over-year to 5.4% from 8.1% in the third quarter and in the nine months dropped to 5.6% from 8.1%.
I’m pleased to report that we began production on the GM K2 SUV center console in late January.
Initial production has gone well and feedback from the automaker is very positive.
This unit was somewhat more of a challenge as it involves a moveable touchscreen.
This is accomplished by a new articulation mechanism which once activated provides a customer with a hidden lockable storage unit which includes USB port for charging a phone or other electronic devices.
I’m also very pleased to announce that Methode was awarded production of a battery pack bus bar for Tesla Motors of their Model S vehicle.
Production has begun and we anticipate annual revenue in fiscal 2015 in the $4 million range and a program life of approximately four years.
Additionally we were awarded a sensor as part of an active roll stabilization system to be implemented on certain BMW automobiles.
The system utilizes Methode’s patented magnetoelastic technology and is essentially an active roll bar with an integrated sensor and electric drive mechanism.
Methode is Tier 2 to [Shuffler] [ph] or SAG in Germany.
This electromechanical system is more responsive and energy efficient than the current hydraulic systems on the market.
While revenues are approximately $2 million per year SAG plans to introduce the system to additional OEMs and it is anticipated this system will find its way into mid class vehicle platforms which typically carry higher volumes as well as SUVs which are generally more susceptible to roll.
The first system will launch in our fiscal 2016.
Finally in Automotive we were awarded additional hidden switch programs in our European operations for average annual revenue of $8 million beginning in our fiscal 2015.
Moving to Interconnect sales increased over 28% in the third quarter and over 32% in the first nine months compared to last year attributable mainly to improved appliance sales from our two largest customers.
Additionally Radio Remote Control sales were higher in both the third quarter and nine months year-over-year.
Compared to last year Interconnect's gross margins fell to 24.1% from 25% in the third quarter and 25.5% from 26.6% in the nine month period due to manufacturing efficiencies from sales mix.
Increased laundry sales which have a higher material content than other products in the segment had the biggest impact on the reduced margins.
For margins to improve in the segment we would need improved sales in Hetronic's European industrial business which we’re diligently working towards.
We did however substantially leverage selling and administrative costs which contributed to nearly a 38% increase in Interconnect's income from operations in the third quarter and a 53% improvement in the first nine months.
Moving to Power Products.
Year-over-year sales improved nearly 41% in the third quarter and 44% in the first nine months.
The launch of a significant program for datacom customer in the U.S.
along with bus bars for the Nissan Leaf battery pack and a high-current bypass switch both in Europe drove the growth over last year.
Year-over-year Power Products gross margins increased in the third quarter to 18.9% from 16.4% last year and in the first nine months to 22.1% from 15%.
This improvement was driven by higher sales a favorable product mix as well as lower raw material and lower new product development costs in both periods.
Sequentially however third quarter gross margins fell compared to the second quarter.
This was mainly due to lower sales to our big data customer which carries a higher gross margin and also increased sales of lower margin products in the quarter.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Doug who will give further details on our financial results.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone.
As Don mentioned in the third quarter we had an expense for the tandem cash award of our portion of our long-term incentive program about $1.6 million.
And again this is a variable accounting treatment that we get and that was the result of the increase in our stock from -- at the end of the third quarter compared to the end of the second quarter.
So that needs to be recognized going forward as a variable expense and will have an impact on our quarterly results.
In the nine month period we spent $23.5 million for capital expenditures.
This include the additional capital needed to launch the SUV portion of K2.
For the full-year we still expect capital spending to be between $25 million and $30 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense in the nine month period was $17.3 million.
For the fiscal year we expect that to be in the $23 million to $25 million range as we began to depreciate the SUV capital assets that are now placed in service.
The full-year effective tax rate is 7.9%.
This is in line with our previous projections and reflects the benefit of the net operating loss carryforward in the U.S investment tax credit utilization in Malta and a 25% tax rate on China income.
The tax rate does not include any adjustments to valuation allowances which may result from changes in tax and circumstances.
Lastly through nine months free cash flow was about $41.7 million and for the full-year we still expect free cash flow to be between $65 million and $75 million through nine months EBITDA was $69.8 million and for the full-year we expect EBITDA to be between $93 million and $103 million.
And again I think we just want to mention that the Board did increase the quarterly dividend that will be payable on May 2nd record date is April 18th.
The increase was from $0.07 to $0.09 that’s about a 29% increase.
Don that’s my comments.
Thank you.
Stacy we’re ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will be now conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Steve Dyer with Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Steve.
I guess I will start with the gross margins you had talked about that and there was a variety of things which you attributed that to.
The torque sensor platform or the torque sensor production in the quarter was one of the things which you attributed it to.
My understanding was that we weren’t going to see any real material revenue on that for a while is that just -- is that sort of the R&amp;D costs like you had to front load with the K2 platform or is there something else there? Okay.
You’re referring to the other segment? Yes.
Yep.
I’m just trying to get a sense for if those were development costs or is that involved with torque sensor production which might…? We moved all of the torque sensor production because it was mainly Automotive to Europe our plant in Malta we felt that they were more suited to handle that production.
So the revenues are recorded there and under European Automotive.
The expense you see under other is the R&amp;D group that we have here at corporate.
So that -- you’re correct it is our development but the revenue generation would now be seen in our European operations under Automotive because the products are automotive based.
The new program that we announced that was in the works because of customer confidentiality we couldn’t announce anything about it until our customer had announced it and both SAG and BMW have talked about it.
And I missed the run rate on that Don from a revenue perspective? It’s well – it’s $2 million a year but it’s a – it’s on small platforms than what we expect to happen is that it will become really the standard versus the hydraulic units that are out there now.
And there is information out on the web on that not on our site but under the two Tier 1 and the OEM.
Okay.
Kind of going back to gross margins and how we should think about those going forward my understanding has always been when you start shipping capacitive touch into the K2 program that that boost your gross margins by quite a bit is that what you’re shipping on the SUV portion and if so or if not frankly when will that -- would you anticipate that will start shipping on the truck version? We are not shipping any capacitive touch yet.
So we’ve not seen that effect.
I can’t really say exactly when we will -- actually when the customer will start but we anticipate that it is mid 2015.
Mid fiscal 2015 or calendar…? Yes.
Yes I’m sorry.
Okay.
And again that’s an approximation because we really can’t say as to when the customer will do the change.
Okay.
So the gross margin overall is still pretty substantially below where you guys have the target for each of your three areas in your slide presentation.
Do you sort of view your fiscal Q3 and Q4 as a bit of an anomaly due to mix or should we see that resumption of gross margin expansion into fiscal ’15 or has something changed there? No -- well one of the comment in our prepared remarks about Interconnect and Power the -- first of all auto pretty much was where we expected it to be actually higher in Europe than we originally thought.
K2 came in where we thought it would and even Asia was up a bit.
So auto we were -- for a heavy holiday quarter auto did slightly better than we expected.
We did have a mix change and then lower sales in Interconnect and Power and very unpredictable business we’ve about a quarter’s visibility in that and as I mentioned our big data customer sales then were down that was of higher margins.
I’m not exaggerating when I say that that customer could very well call tomorrow and say I need product and they would expect us to ship it.
But we don’t have the visibility that we’d have in the Automotive.
So less sales of higher margin business in those two segments really is what contributed to the margin.
And that’s why these non-automotive businesses are very important to us as we introduce new products at higher margins; our margins will improve in that area.
But when we do have a mix of higher volume low margin that does have an effect on us and that’s what we saw in the third quarter and some of that is also the holiday effect as well.
That’s not a -- the third quarter for those segments is generally not a strong quarter.
But you anticipate that will continue through the April quarter is how I read that? Yes I think -- yes with what we are saying today we’d anticipate that will continue into the fourth quarter.
I don’t think that changes our view of next year.
We’ve seen it happen before.
We saw it benefit us in the earlier quarters this year.
Sure.
Okay.
Lastly as it relates to auto you put a new risk section in or a new risk bullet point at the bottom that just suggests that obviously one of the risks is finished inventory at a large customer.
Should we read anything into that as it relates to the GM business or is that sort of a -- just a blanket bullet? I would say it’s a blanket bullet.
It’s been talked about that and on automotive news it just really occurred to us as we go through our risk that that is something that an auto maker if they want to bring down their inventory they certainly can do that whether they do it through incentives or they just reduce their purchases.
So it’s a risk it’s occurred we’ve seen it occur in the past.
Is your sense that your finished inventory is elevated there or is that still pretty just in time? We are pretty much just in time.
Okay.
Last question and I will hop back in the queue.
Doug overall SG&amp;A or selling and administrative I think was a little bit elevated in the quarter due to some compensation etcetera.
How should we think about that number either on an absolute basis or percentage of sales going forward? Well again I think in my comments Steve I talked about the variable accounting we get on the tandem cash.
So for next quarter and through next year depending on our stock price we’re going to be either going to -- we’re going to get a benefit or a hit on that piece.
The other items we talked about SG&amp;A I think we saw increased legal and professional services.
I think we probably were a little bit high this quarter but generally not that much above a run rate for those items.
And then otherwise as a percentage of sales we still benefit from the higher sales is driving that percentage down.
Got it.
Okay.
I’ll hop back in the queue.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Steve.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Leiker with Baird.
Please proceed.
Hey guys its Joe on the line for David.
Hi Joe.
Hi Joe.
I wanted to take back up with gross margin questions if the apple-to-apple margin in the quarter was 21% if I just consider equal production days and let’s say product mix was theoretically the exact same sequentially.
Would your gross margins have actually been higher this quarter versus last quarter? I’m digesting that question.
Let me just play that back to you.
You’re saying if revenues were equal quarter-to-quarter which was they essentially were and we did not have a mix issue in the non-automotive segments would our margins have been higher? I guess it depends.
No I would say no they would have been on par and it depends on what if it was more Hetronic business in Europe that carries higher margins on our big data potentially it could have been but we kind of compared second quarter revenues in non-auto to third quarter and that’s where we calculated our the margin difference.
So now I would -- it could have been but would have been depended upon mix but had it been the same sales it would have been 21%.
Okay I guess what we’re trying to figure out is -- figure out what the base should be as a starting point because you’re about to layer on a lot more incremental revenue particularly beginning next quarter with the GM SUV so the right base number to you is going to layer on the extra leverage and ultimately the vertical integration.
It sounds like if this is the mix you’re going to have going forward 21% is probably the right base number to use it wouldn’t be the all in 20% that you reported during the quarter? I think what I know what we were saying in our prepared remarks about the effect on margin for the fourth quarter is we’re going to see that same effect of mix in -- and I’ll say the non-automotive but I mean primarily it’s Interconnect and Power we’re going to see that same I guess decline in margins in those areas that we said was about $0.05 we’re going to see that.
I don’t anticipate that we’re going to see that continuing into fiscal ’15 it is those businesses have been slowed by our customer demand.
So if you’re saying will that return in the fourth quarter my answer to that is no and that we’ve that -- we’re going to see that and we know what we’re going to be shipping to a large degree for the next couple of months so we anticipate that we’ll see that effect.
Would you expect then I don’t know how many production weeks you have scheduled for this Q4 versus Q3 is that a benefit to you at all thinking sequentially? No it's ’13.
Yes Joe every four or five years we pick up an extra week just because of our accounting convention we’re on 52 53 week accounting year.
So this year is a 53 week year so that got plugged into our third quarter and so we won’t see that event for another five years or so.
Okay.
Shifting over to the five or so expense items you called out on the press release.
I just want to confirm that (a) all those items are already in guidance so they’re not unusual and then is there any one of those items that was may be larger than plans when you last gave your guidance update in December? And you’re referring to the first page of the release? Yes the items impacting year-over-year income.
Well they’re all contemplated within our guidance just to confirm that.
We did -- legal would have been the one area that originally we didn’t anticipate a higher legal expense due to a lawsuit that we initiated where the plaintiffs on a patent related lawsuit it's not -- it won't rise to the Delphi type event a years ago but there is something that we initiated they’re going to protect our IP.
So well that is included in our guidance but it wasn’t anticipated when we initially set the guidance and of course LTI as discussed earlier that it goes up and down with the stock price.
Okay.
And that $0.08 gain for Q4 that’s also in the range? Yes.
Okay and then just a few on revenue the automotive awards that you won first of all congrats.
Should we think about those as being helping you fill in the un-booked revenues that you kind of talk about on your future revenue slide or would those things be incremental to those targets? Now those absolutely they fill in the un-booked revenue that we referred to in our multi-year revenue chart.
Okay.
And then last one just kind of an update on the therapeutic mattress product you frame that if the center console like revenue opportunity so if I just think of the market size that $2 billion market size and I put a center console like share of markets on that do you kind of frame that as a $150 million to $200 million revenue opportunity is that internally what you are targeting? If you look at that market which is quite large if the product is truly a game changer in that market place then we’ll pick the percentage of what we’re going to get out of that market but it would be a substantial piece of business for Methode.
Now having said that it could also be a good product that gets accepted by certain portion of the market and we’d anticipate we would more than recover our investment in that but it's just too soon to say that.
We are setting up productions.
Production is really next door to our corporate headquarters here in Chicago it's being set up FDA filings are being submitted.
We’re actively marketing it.
I can’t answer your question yet.
I hope your back of the napkin there is correct but we will know that here in -- within the next year for sure.
Can you may be say I know you’ve licensed some IP and you’re leveraging a lot of technology you already had in-house can you say what that investment breakeven level of revenue might be? We can -- we would have to calculate it but it's not a significant amount of money.
We spent couple of million dollars last year on it and we’ll spend not counting the production equipment but even the production equipment is may not that -- we will maybe have spent $3 million this year.
Now we’re going to increase our investment going forward but that’s going to be -- and that will be in our fiscal ’15 we will then increase that to $5 million to $7 million.
But this is not a -- we’ve got considerably more money in torque sensing than we have in this.
Okay.
And actually kudos to our guys because they did this on a shoestring and we embarked on this about the same time we embarked a launch in K2.
So the need for capital went to K2 so these guys did a very good job with a lot of used equipment to get where they are.
Yes I am sure your engineers are not lacking things to do recently.
I’ll leave it there guys.
Thank you very much.
All right.
Thanks Joe.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning Don.
Good morning Doug.
Good morning Jimmy.
Good morning.
So most of my questions have been addressed but I did want to dive just a little bit deeper into the guidance and outlook.
So with less than two months ago here in the year your guidance range remains pretty wide on both the top and bottom line.
Is there any reason that we should expect that kind of variability in the remaining months or could you maybe give us a little bit more specific color on your expectations for Q4 profitability relative to perhaps Q2 when you did not have the inefficiencies associated with the holiday shutdown? We face this dilemma every third quarter call and that we don’t give quarterly guidance we need to get down to the fourth quarter with a couple of months to go and we maintain our range.
So your question is very appropriate.
That is one of the reasons we gave it much color as we could.
And what do we think is going happen in Interconnect and Power that’s $0.05 for this quarter and Doug made some additional comments his remarks.
We talked about gross margins.
We talked about being on track for auto and particularly a solid SUV started production.
So I believe we’ve given enough color in the release that you can look at our guidance and build the model that it's okay this is pretty much where Methode is going to end up.
It's just that we don’t -- we’d operate the business on our annual basis and we give in annual guidance and again we have this dilemma every year we knew this year would be particularly interesting because of SUV and K2.
Okay fair enough.
And then just a point of clarification that the Lumidigm on sale did I understand your response correctly that the guidance now includes that benefit? Yes correct.
Okay.
And then … It offset by some of the negative things like the legal expenses that we talked about.
Right right.
Okay.
And then lastly this is a follow-up to some of the color you gave on recent Interconnect performance relative to your fiscal ’15 margin expectations there.
Are you assuming a meaningful uptick in Hetronic to get into the high 20s low 30s gross margin there in fiscal ’15 or is that more new product coming online and the mix benefit therein.
What really gets you to the kind of improvement that’s in your slide presentation? Well it is improvement in the Hetronic’s business.
New product launches we’ve done a product for Halliburton that has shipped we’re anticipating additional business from them increased business in Europe doing large sales activity so some of that is built in.
Power new products there continuing with our big data customer.
We have also done some product training in Power; we’re into some last time buys.
We improve products when the volumes -- they don’t materialize or the products have done end of life we’ll do the last time build and usually we have seen the margin improvement from that.
So it's a combination of management actions sales actions that gives us confidence that we’ll see those numbers.
In auto because the -- while you carry a lot of volume it doesn’t carry the margins we see in some of these other business so we don’t need as much revenue to have that a very positive effect.
And likewise we saw this quarter; it doesn’t take too much revenue reduction to have an effect as well.
Okay.
So just to be clear at this point no reason to think that your conviction has diminished at all regarding those fiscal ’15 targets? No.
Okay great.
Well thanks very much for the time.
Thank you Jimmy.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Kalis from Calamos.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to get a clarification on the LTI comments.
So what I first heard was that the expenses there were higher because of some performance goals being met or thought about in ’15.
Then I also heard that it was because of the stock price moving up.
So could you clarify which of those are correct? Sure I mean the increase in the quarter is primarily the increase in the stock price.
It was in the fourth quarter of last fiscal year that we were confident enough to book the tandem cash portion of the long-term incentive plan that was a 2010 plan and the payout is at the end of fiscal ’15.
So we recorded that in the fourth quarter last year and then not only does that get been amortized for the remaining quarters through 2015 it's subject to variable accounting and so it's going to increase or decrease based on the closing price of the stock at the end of the quarter.
Okay so part of that though is fiscal ’15 which is five quarters out if I’m understanding what you said correct? Well the assumption is that the management has made will perform.
Our projections indicate the management will perform and that again is if you look at our proxy it's the internal enterprise value of the company at the end of ’15.
So there’s a cap on that upside so we know what that amount is.
What gets adjusted though is the value of the stock it will be paid out the value at the end of 2015 and the accounting rules say that every quarter up to that point we revalue it at the stock price at the end of the quarter.
Okay.
Could you remind me of those the enterprise value goal that’s in the proxy? Yes it's 7.5 times our fiscal ’15 EBITDA and then adjusted for cash in debt.
Okay all right.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up question from Steve Dyer with Craig-Hallum.
Please proceed.
Okay.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
The Tesla business that I think the bus bar business you said was $4 million annual run rate initially.
Does that have the potential to grow pretty significantly as they start rolling out some bigger volume products? Yes where I haven't been awarded additional platforms other than the S but we did get the business on their star platform.
So there will be a potential would be good for that.
That’s produced in our Shanghai facility.
And then so all of that would be theoretically be added if to the booked and base business on the chart that you show? It would support the un-booked section of ’16 and ’17.
Okay so you couldn’t turn it around before then at the earliest that it would hit if you were to win call it the X or what have you.
Well it depends on -- depending on when that went into the production if it happened in ’15 yes.
There is potential there.
Okay got it.
So it sounds like you got very little SUV jump into the K2 it sounds like you got very little SUV contribution in the quarter a week or so is that right? Yes that’s about right.
And in are the kind of the numbers that GM is telling you there are they sort of consistent with what you have been expecting and IHS has been saying and so forth? Let me rephrase that I remember that.
I mean have your expectations in terms of revenue changed at all sort of relative to what you’ve been expecting in terms of either the timing or the magnitude of the launch? No we’re on track the launch went very well the volume is where as we anticipated and we don’t -- at this point we’re in production and we’ll proceed into the -- to win our fourth quarter per plan.
Okay.
A couple of model questions and I promise that’s it.
The 9.5% to 10.5% operating margin guidance is that -- that’s for fiscal ’14 right or that’s not the quarter that’s for the overall year? That’s overall year.
Okay.
And then lastly Doug how should we think about tax rate moving forward? Sure.
You said currently we’re below 8% for an effective tax rate and but talked about the fact that we do have valuation allowances on our net operating loss and foreign tax credits.
And if we get to the point where the accounting rules say we need to pick those up and reverse those reserves then we have talked about Steve is that the tax rate will probably be in the mid-to-upper teens for an effective tax rate going forward so life after the net operating losses.
And when would you or sort of are you currently projected for those to start rolling off? All I can tell you is that at the end of the third quarter we were knocked down.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up question from David Leiker with Baird.
Please proceed.
Yes my tax question got answered.
But I have one more regarding the revenue opportunity as you see Magna-Lastic brought in to other lets call it transmission applications and you touched on what you’re doing in roll stability (indiscernible).
Any idea of what addressable market is there as you get the hydraulic into the magnetic conversion? That’s an excellent question.
In the transmission itself where we have really been focused we have to -- before I can really say how significant that market can be we need to have the first win where we’re actually putting a torque sensor on a transmission and really to see how that benefits the customer and the consumer.
If it becomes a standard then I am -- Joe I am going to give you a similar answer I gave you on the Dabir Surfaces.
It depends on how it's accepted in the market.
You go anywhere from over the next 5 to 10 years one on every transmission made that’s huge they’re automatic transmission and we don’t anticipate that but that’s probably a couple of $100 million of revenue maybe even more than that.
But the adoption rate and I think we planned this out before is as these transmissions are changed there’s no backwards compatibility.
So it will rollout slow we need our first win.
If it becomes a standard for the higher speed transmissions where we think it will be beneficial then we will see substantial revenue from it.
But it's too soon to say that -- to depict what that number is going to be.
Now from our standpoint it is some point if we get on a small just a small platform if we don’t see a future for them we will scale backward to where we are.
But what I found very -- I guess the degree of confidence in that we were able to get this on as a safety product our vehicle and a substantial vehicle a customer is known for their safety and innovation.
So while there is transmission applications again are going to take a while active roll was which we have been working on for a while.
Again we can’t announce it to our customers allow us to is very exciting again small revenue but that could actually ramp faster than transmission.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Stacy thank you very much and we wish everyone a pleasant day and upcoming weekend.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2014 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only-mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause these actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including two large automotive customers; investment in programs prior to the recognition of revenue; timing quality and cost of new program launches; ability to withstand price pressure; dependence on our supply chain; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; customary risks related to conducting global operations; currency fluctuations; income tax rate fluctuations; fluctuations in our gross margins; the recognition of goodwill impairment charges; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to compete effectively; ability to withstand business interruptions; a breach of our information technology systems; and cost and expenses due to regulations regarding conflict materials.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Mannie and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2014 fourth quarter financial results conference call.
I'm joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will take your questions.
We were very pleased to report this morning that year-over-year fourth quarter sales grew 52% to $225 million.
And for the fiscal year sales grew 49% to $773 million.
Income from operations improved 450% to $20.4 million and in the fourth quarter 88% to $74 million for the full year.
Fiscal 2014 sales and income from operations were the best ever since Methode became a public company a milestone every Methode employee can be very proud of.
Additionally gross margin increased 40 basis points in the fourth quarter and 270 basis points this fiscal year over the last.
The largest contributor to this improvement was increased sales that margins were also positively impacted by the vertical integration initiative and favorable raw material pricing and the product mix in the power product segment.
Sequentially our fourth quarter automotive gross margins were lower due to a higher percentage of sales in North America and in Europe and Asia which typically produce higher margins than North America.
In Interconnect overall sales and lower data solution sales which then typically carry a higher margin impacted the fourth quarter over the third.
Power product margins improved in the fourth quarter over the third quarter due to higher mineral revenues and our cost reduction efforts.
Of note consolidated fiscal 2014 selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased to 9.2% from 13.4% in the fourth quarter and for the year dropped to 10.3% from 12.8% in 2013.
We are very pleased with the considerable leverage realized given the substantial rise in sales.
Our fiscal 2014 operating margin was 9.5% compared to 2.5% for 2013 and exceeding our goal to improve operating margin by 1% per year.
GAAP fourth quarter net income grew to $48.2 million or $1.25 per share and for the year to $96.1 million or $2.51 per share as we detailed in our press release this morning there were some significant factors that influenced the year-over-year comparisons.
The main components which impacted net income in both the fourth quarter and full year were the U.S.
deferred tax valuation allowance release.
We gained on the sale of our investment in Lumidigm the multi-tax valuation allowance adjustment and the intangible asset impairment charges related to Eetrex.
In addition and strictly impacting the year-over-year comparison was the gain recorded in conjunction with the legal turmoil in fiscal 2013.
Excluding these items Methode's fiscal 2014 fourth quarter net income was $18.8 million or $0.49 per share compared to $6.9 million or $0.18 per share in fiscal 2013.
Fiscal 2014 net income was $66.7 million or $1.75 per share in fiscal 2014 compared to $17.5 million or $0.46 per share in 2013 excluding these items.
Of note that our fiscal 2014 fourth quarter non-GAAP income of $0.49 per share exceeded our full year 2013 income of $0.46 per share.
Doug will spend some time discussing the non-GAAP adjustments more and the effective tax rate in his comments.
While higher sales were the largest contributor to year-over-year improvement to net income in both period.
Increased manufacturing efficiencies due to the vertical integration initiative favorable raw material pricing in power product segment and substantially leveraged SG&amp;A in all segments also contributed to the significant growth in earnings.
The fourth quarter earnings improvement was somewhat mitigated by higher bonus development and legal expenses and a non-GAAP effective tax rate of 10.6% which was higher than anticipated to – due to higher profits in Asia.
The fiscal year was impacted by higher expenses related to bonus and wages travel performance based LTI compensation legal and development as well as the absence of a one-time reversal of accruals related to a customer bankruptcy in fiscal 2013 and again a higher non-GAAP effective tax rate of 10.6%.
As I just mentioned we incurred increased compensation expense of $1.8 million for the fiscal year related to our long-term incentive program.
The long-term incentive awards which are based on the company's performance in this fiscal 2015 will become payable if the warrants on the plan meets or exceeds targeted performance.
This adjustment reflects the company's investment of fiscal 2015 performance.
Comparing fiscal 2014 results to guidance revenue exceeded our range by $23 million; however sales of $773 million included $24 million of automotive segment tooling sales at nearly breakeven margins.
For the year non-GAAP earnings came in closer to the mid-point of our range negatively impacted by $0.05 due to a higher overall effective tax rate $0.04 due to sales mix $0.03 due to higher legal cost and $0.04 due to higher LTI compensation expense.
These items negatively impacted EPS by about $0.16 in total.
Now turning to review of our individual segments compared to last year automotive segments net sales grew 93% in the fourth quarter and 68% for the year due mainly to the production of the General Motors K2 program and new program launches in Europe.
Fourth quarter automotive gross margins improved to 18.3% from 15.1% last year and full year gross margins increased to 18.8% from 14% year-over-year.
In both periods the increased manufacturing efficiencies driven by higher sales again as well as the benefit of the vertical integration produced higher margins.
Selling and administrative costs as a percent of sales dropped significantly year-over-year to 4.1% from 7.6% in the fourth quarter and to 5.1% from 8% for the year.
During the fourth quarter Methode was awarded additional business with Land Rover and Ford of Europe as well as additional E5 business for our torque sensing product which totaled $9 million in annual revenue in fiscal 2017 ramping to $15 million in fiscal 2018.
Moving to Interconnect year-over-year sales decreased 8% in the fourth quarter driven mainly by lower North American data solution sales but increased almost 20% for the year attributable mainly to improve appliance data solutions and radio remote control sales.
Compared to last year Interconnect's gross margin fell to 23.5% in the quarter and 25% for the full year due to manufacturing inefficiency from sales mix.
Additionally increased laundry sales which have a higher material content than other products in the segment and a lower percentage of data solution sales which carry higher margins had the biggest impact on the reduced margins.
For margins to improve in the segment we would need improve sales in Methode's industrial business which we're diligently working towards as well as continued growth in our data solution segment both significant focuses for management.
Moving to power products year-over-year sales improved nearly 22% in the fourth quarter driven mainly by the launch of a significant program for a big data customer in the U.S.
For the fiscal year sales increased nearly 38% again mainly due to the big data program but additionally due to launch of bus bars for the Nissan Leaf battery pack and a high-current bypass switch both in Europe.
Year-over-year power products gross margins decreased in the fourth quarter to 19.4% due mainly to sales mix and higher development costs.
For the fiscal year however gross margins improved 410 basis points due to product mix and favorable raw material pricing.
Looking forward as we announced earlier fiscal 2015 sales guidance is in the range of $835 million to $860 million.
Income from operations guidance is in the range of $93 million to $100 million and earnings per share guidance in the range of $1.85 to $2.
This EPS range takes into account an increase in effective tax rate to the low 20s and a higher share count.
Based on this guidance range our fiscal 2015 operating margin target is in the range of 11.1% to $11.6% which would be in line with our goals to improve our operating margins by approximately 1% every year on average.
The expected operating margin increase over fiscal 2014 is an improvement in the range of 1.3% to 1.8%.
In our release today we detailed a number of factors relating to terming our guidance in particular I'd like to note that our first and third quarters have currently had lower sales and earnings in the second and fourth quarters.
We remain cautious on the European economy and sales mix particularly in our non-automotive business is important -- all are important factors.
As we detailed in our 10-K this morning we filed legal proceedings in Germany and Oklahoma against our former Hetronic's Germany partner in material breaches of intellectual property and distribution agreements.
The affected customers are now being covered by direct Hetronic's sales personnel.
We have to consider this issue when preparing the above aforementioned guidance.
As a result we anticipate higher legal expenses were approximately $1.7 million for fiscal 2015 which may be occurred more in the first half of the fiscal year.
Then in the latter half but as with most litigation it is difficult to predict.
Further these higher legal expenses combined with higher wage expense were likely to slightly increase SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues in fiscal 2015 than 2014.
On the gross margin front we anticipate our automotive gross margins will improve throughout the year with the fourth quarter approaching the mid-point of our fiscal 2015 target range of low to mid 20s as the vertical integration of capacitive touchscreens and the 31x program commence.
In Interconnect we will likely not meet our gross margin target of high 20s to low 30s as appliance sales were very low margin than industrial or data solutions that represent a higher percentage of the segments overall sales.
The entire fiscal 2015 gross margins also not likely meet their low to mid 20s due to anticipated continued reduced revenues in the middle lower market as well as anticipated lower year-over-year sales to our big data customers.
And we took remedial actions before the quarter to reduce our costs in these segments to this point as I said earlier higher sales will be necessary to improve the margins.
However I want to point out these margins will remain viable targets beyond fiscal 2015.
As I mentioned a moment ago based on guidance we anticipate improving metals operating margins approximately 170 to 230 basis points in fiscal 2015.
In 2014 we booked over 68 million additional average annual revenue commencing in Methode's fiscal 2017 and we successfully launched multiple programs during fiscal 2014 including one of the largest center console program ever awarded.
Looking forward to fiscal 2015 we intend to invest approximately $4 million in additional development cost compared to 2014 as we bring several new solutions to market.
Each of these innovations are key to our long-term strategy of providing our customers technology that enhances their products and competitive position and ultimately results in improved sales opportunities and better margins for Methode.
In our automotive segment our highly patented Magnetoelastic technology continues to be prototype and tested by multiple OEMs for transmission toward measurement.
We remain very optimistic on this technology and sales opportunities that can forward Methode.
Additionally as personal electronic devices continue to set the pace of consumer technology adoption and center console evolve to be more of an integrated system.
Methode continues to invest in the next generation integrated center stack.
Our smart center stack is dying to incorporate modular building blocks that integrate our own organic technology offerings as well as those in our licensed portfolio.
The intent is to allow each OEM to determine their needs for their various models and price ranges and only build the functionality required which minimizes engineering and tooling costs.
We believe that our smart center stack will enhance the ultimate driver experience by emulating the smartphone experience.
We will have initial units ready for OEM evaluations later this year.
Additionally we will continue to develop our mean touch digital printing and glass HyperTouch transceiver solutions and the bear services.
To recap these technologies mean touch involves digital printing of graphics and circuit be a Methode nanoparticle conductive inks it replaced it's conventional printed circuit boards and provided a distinct competitive advantage including reduced inventory lead time and tooling.
We believe that with additional development work this process will be deployed in the production of user interface devices such as those we currently supply to the appliance industry providing Methode a very distinct advantage.
Digital print and glass replace its conventional screen printing on decorative tempered glass for user interface panels and utilizes ultraviolet durable organic inks defense via large scale digital printers.
This process currently introduced and will become our standard product offering going forward.
HyperTouch addresses time and challenges associated with various touch technologies such as some thing touched with thicker substrate activating the touch cell through a glove providing water immunity and it will allow greater bearings in the manufacturing processes.
Additionally we are very pleased that the Bear project team completed the registration of both our manufacturing facility and product offering with the FDA earlier than planned.
We can now proceed with commercialization once final manufacturing and quality system elements are fully in place and validated which we expect to incur later this summer.
Sales people have been hired representatives are being contracted in select markets and we anticipate our first sales albeit minimal of this evolved.
Further on the Bear clinical studies geared to dialysis patients comfort plus MRI deep tissue scanning test are wrapping up in July planned research over the coming months include an extension of the MRI study with more complex parameters a long-term surgical procedures outcome study and a long-term care study.
Our initial product launch will focus on operating room procedures in excess of two hours and duration were our current product offering is optimally designed.
I again congratulate the Bear team as well as all our product development teams and their accomplishments and look forward to the sales and income these unique innovations will generate.
The aforementioned are I think are fine examples of Methode's innovation and creativity which are the driving forces behind our product development design manufacturing and testing capabilities.
Further and we believe these and organically developed solutions not only leverage our competencies and technologies to provide sophisticated solutions to multiple end markets but we will take Methode to the next level of growth and improved shareholder value.
So to sum up this year we are very excited by Methode's future to all Methode employees a job very well done.
Doug I will turn the call over to you.
Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
Just a few comments on the quarter.
Recorded EPS for fiscal year 2014 was $2.51 per share when adjusted for discrete items all of which occurred in the fourth quarter the non-GAAP EPS was $1.75 per share.
We eliminated the difference – sorry we eliminated the following items to develop their non-GAAP EPS $3.2 million or $0.08 benefit from the sale of our investment in alumina $2 million or $0.05 per share charge for impairment of fixed and intangible assets related to Eetrex 300 000 of that was in cost of goods sold at fixed asset portion the balance is intangible asset that was $1.7 million.
Below the line in taxes we eliminated $31.7 million or $0.83 per share benefit from releasing U.S.
tax evaluation allowance related to federal and state NOL carryforwards foreign tax credit carryforwards and other book tax temporary difference.
We also had $1.5 million or $0.04 per share charge for adjusting evaluation allowance related to mark this investment tax credit carryforwards.
We have $1.3 million or $0.04 per share charge related to our assertion on foreign earnings.
And $0.7 million or $0.02 per share charge for federal withholding tax related to release of the U.S.
evaluation allowances.
For fiscal 2014 the effective tax rate was a benefit of 26.7% when adjusted for the tax items just discussed.
The non-GAAP effective tax rate lets to 10.6% for the year.
This is higher than the expected full year effective rate of 7.9% that we had at the end of the third quarter primarily due to higher than expected earnings in Asia.
As Don mentioned earlier this increase in effective tax rate cost us about a nickel per share.
For fiscal 2015 we expect the effective tax rate to be in the low 20s because we no longer have the net operating loss evaluation allowance to shelter domestic booked income.
The good news however is that we still have the tax net operating loss available which we expect to keep cash taxes to minimum throughout fiscal 2015.
As we mentioned in the earnings release the shares used to calculate diluted EPS will increase between $700 000 and $800 000 in fiscal 2015.
This is due to the performance based restricted stock awards issued in fiscal 2011 which vest at the end of fiscal 2015.
The accounting rules require that the shares be recognized when the performance threshold is reached – is achieved which we expect will be in the later part of fiscal year 2015.
In fiscal 2014 we expect – we spend $29 million for capital expenditures this includes additional capital needed to launch the SUV portion of the K2 program.
The fiscal 2015 we expect capital spending to be between $25 million and $30 million.
Deprecation and amortization expense in fiscal 2014 was $23.9 million for fiscal 2015 we expect the depreciation and amortization to be between $25 million and $29 million.
EBITDA was $98.8 million when adjusted for the non-GAAP items based upon that was 2014 based on our fiscal 2015 guidance we expect EBITDA to be between 114 and 124 and based on our guidance we expect 2015 free cash flow to be between $73 million and $76 million.
And that concludes my remarks.
Doug thank you very much.
Mannie we are ready to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Steve Dyer of Craig-Hallum.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning.
Couple of things.
As you look at the upside to your guidance – your revenue guidance for fiscal 2015 specifically I'm kind of thinking back to the chart that you guys have done and I don't think you've updated real recently but the difference between $800 million in revenue and call it $840 million or $850 million somewhere in there.
I'm guessing that that is not really driven by new program wins as much as it is just overall anticipated strengthen the underlying business? Correct driven mainly by automotive really worldwide mostly in the U.S.
but we are seeing growth in Asia and Europe albeit not as robust as we would like to seen it – yes it is driven primarily by automotive.
Okay.
Compared to automotive program that's in progress.
Okay.
And then along the lines and I don't think you have an updated chart there but I mean as you kind of think out fiscal 2016 and 2017 I'm guessing that sort of moves in a similar fashion your anticipation there? It does I think more and more will give a growth in number – compound growth year-over-year.
I think we are seeing in the single digits for going forward.
The only question I would give on using 2015 has a phase as we do have product going end-of-life every year before program start to run of the tail end of this year and then again in a year later until that's $40 million in that is made up by other program wins.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Can you talk a little bit about the auto tooling sales I guess I had always thought of tooling more in terms of your cost of goods to ramp a program.
Can you talk a little bit about those and did a big proportion amount of those in Q4 which may be led to the automotive gross margins that were a touch light of expectations? Right.
We did have considerable tooling in the fourth quarter and that is tooling that is paid forward by the customer and that's tooling that we would have to invest.
So its injection moulds and you think of it as tooling that touches the product.
So the customer might on the injection mould itself we would have to buy the injection mould machine.
There is a very elaborate process for collecting those funds from the automaker takes quite effort a lot of paper work.
And we have our teams here selecting all of the tooling monies versus not so much the timing.
We can always get the tooling monies quicker if you want to expect discount and we don't.
We provide all the paper works sometimes several times to the automaker and we expect to be paid completely for their portion of the tooling.
That's an unpredictable process.
We were anticipating earlier that some of the tooling reimbursement would come actually in our first quarter and the teams did a very good job of collecting all this dues and that influenced the fourth quarter number.
And if you think we would have high tooling because of the amount of programs that we launched in the last couple of years.
Okay.
A couple of GM-related questions.
Can you give any sort of order color on when the 31Xx when you would anticipate beginning to ship into that program and then separately any further color on when you'd anticipate the capacitive touchscreen shipments to commence? We do know that timings but we have to let our customers announce that if not we are into launch now that's up to GM.
So I really can't answer that.
The other thing I should point out on tooling sales is that virtually has no profits.
So that as – when you factor that in that as certainly effect on gross margins.
Going back to capacitive presumably that that launch is captured within your margin guidance for that segment that you talked about? Yes.
It is.
Okay.
Last question it doesn't sound like you have a lot in revenue sort of built in the expectations for the bed product in fiscal 2015 any more granular about sort of the anticipated cost as well as the revenues for that product in 2015 and 2016? The cost – The increase… We are increasing our R&amp;D spend we have developed spend.
And a portion of that probably the largest portion of that spend is for the Bear services.
We are expecting some minimal sales nothing that would move our needle at all that it won't offset the dollars that we are spending.
And that's more of fiscal 2016 impact.
What's your sense on 2016 or is it just too early to say? Too early to say.
All right.
Sounds good.
Thank you guys.
Steve thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Jimmy Baker of B.
Riley.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning and nice quarter great year.
Good morning Jimmy thank you very much.
So I just want to ask a couple of follow ups on the tooling sales so looks like that's going to be cut in half year in fiscal 2015 can you just kind of walk us through that dynamic a little bit if it's just a function of fewer or expose less significant launches this year versus fiscal 2014? And then are those tooling sales in fiscal 2015 weighted towards any specific quarter or we should be kind of aware of the margin impact there? The tooling the lion share of the tooling from last year was K2 pick-up and then really a number of programs in Europe smaller programs.
But they all add up will still collect tooling.
And we have to keep that before we can even submit the tooling packet when we still have SUV in 31X of course and then a few programs in Europe.
I mean reluctant to try to predict what quarter that comes in as I said to Steve we want the teams to collect all the monies that are due us and that's them another quarter to do it.
I'm fine with that.
So it's not a very predictable process from that standpoint.
But it's also is conservatively reduced from the prior year so that should have a less of an impact.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And if I was to save back out the tooling sales out of both years it looks like you're expecting about $85 million – at the midpoint of your guidance -- $85 million in revenue growth year-over-year.
Can you give us a little color on how you see that spread between segments in quarters and obviously a majority of your growth is dollars coming out of automotive but maybe be more helpful to speak on a percentage basis.
It is driven by automotive.
We'll have – as we approach the end of this year we'll have all three GM programs fully relaunched capacitive touchscreens will be online.
We've got several launches in Europe.
And Asia has been sales there have been very good.
From a quarter standpoint I would point out that Q1 and Q3 as I said in my prepared remarks tend to be weaker because you've got the summer shutdowns including change over and then we got holiday months in the third quarter.
As far as the segments where majority of the growth is coming from model.
Appliance will be likely be flat flat sales and housing starts.
And our industrial business we're still facing headwind in Europe.
I will say the industrial business is getting a tremendous amount of noise as we see that as a business we can grow and it certainly have probably be best margin in the company when we do have a sales growth.
Okay.
So the Land Rover win that you mentioned I think over the second OEM in there that I just missed for torque sensing.
What was the application there for those wins still something outside of the transmission? The Land Rover and Ford of Europe were agronomics which is a hidden switches in Europe.
And then the E5 torque sensor and it's just utilizing the same technology that we use for the Bosch Evite with the different customers.
Okay.
Got it.
And then maybe just one for Doug with the full year share count of 700 000 to 900 000 shares.
Could you just give us your expectation for the end of the year share count I assume that 700 000 to 900 000 is for the fiscal weighted average but what would be exiting the year if you hit your target? I think we ended up at 38.4 for this year.
So that's the best numbers that I think which you close to maybe 39.2.
39.2 was it? Yes yes.
Okay.
Thanks very much for your time.
Thanks Jimmy.
Thank you.
The next question is from Christopher Van Horn of FBR Capital markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call and great quarter and great year.
Thank you.
Just a question about the cash balance you kind of your priorities around uses of those cash.
Could you just kind of give us some color there? Sure.
We pay a dividend and we continue to invest in our businesses.
As we said earlier investing $4 million in development this year over last where appropriate and justified we continue to do very full integrations some of the capital that Doug mentioned will be spent are vertical integration as our teams can justify.
And then acquisitions our key focus and we're coming off from major launch with General Motors we suspended our acquisition activities when we look at business we're one of the teams focused of course on the successful launch and that has occurred.
And so can – I would say six months ago or so we started to turn our focus to looking acquisitions.
We hired I guess -- we hired along Methode employee our Vice President of Corporate Business Development.
Mark is on Board he and the CEO of Lumidigm and Mark's main focus is in acquisition.
So from a capital or cash standpoint that would be our uses.
Great great.
And could you just comment give me a little bit color on Lumidigm was that a kind of the timing and how long you've been thinking about that decision.
And then as kind of a follow-up is there any other assets in the portfolio that are under review or is that kind of an ongoing thing that you guys do? Well it is an ongoing thing it's – you always look at your portfolio if you will and make sure everything is core and then you're deploying your capital and your resources in the best area Lumidigm we actually own about 10% of Lumidigm.
Yeah.
We were -- Methode and Intel were the only strategic investors Motorola I think at one point was in there.
So the rest were venture capital groups and everyone agree that with the -- I guess the uptick and the interest in biometrics that was the time to monetize Lumidigm.
Mark and his team did a great job of getting a good number for it.
So we certainly benefit from it.
But I should point out that we maintain our exclusive license for the Lumidigm in the biometric technology for automotive – actually transportation worldwide.
So from our standpoint when the Lumidigm board was discussing – selling the company we were in favor of it time was right and we had our license.
And for anything else it really does depends on where we're focusing and what is going on in the particular market.
Got it.
Thank you very much and again congrats.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And the next question is from David Leiker of Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
This is Joe on the line for David.
Hi Joe.
I wanted to start on revenue trends and Interconnect.
If I just look at some of the sales results from your customers in that segment thinking a large appliance guy a large data center guys.
It would seem like their sales were a little stronger than what you saw was there any sort of can you call inventory built up in the channel that might have diluted your results a bit and do you think it's a bit more balanced looking forward? In our data main product and transceiver product we did see that.
The big customer there is Cisco and that was – we shipped to a hub and we saw that increase considerably and then that has to be worked down.
And we think some of that we haven't seen seen it go back to let's say mid 14 level.
So and then particular that would be one area.
Appliances it's been better and then we Whirlpools results it's not necessarily one for one and this – it can't be a bit spike even some seasonality to it as well because most of would be kept in laundry most of our products are in the kitchen suite.
And there is a bit of a seasonality to that.
Okay.
If I just maybe take a step back from a high level perspective you did $225 million in revenues in the quarter if I just annualize that you already had $900 million.
So I'm wondering relative to the guidance for next year was there any sort of maybe pipeline sale at GM ahead of SUV launch or something that I should be adjusting out of an annualized number outside of just normal seasonality to the auto production? Seasonality is definitely there.
But there was pipeline we can't tell what that is it is not differentiated in the releases but there is some of that.
And then you got to be careful with tooling.
You got to pack that out.
If you are run rating it you're up playing that tooling number… For business days running out.
Yes.
But also the point for business starts to run and that completely we still have another year on one of the programs but third and fourth quarters Ford is down.
And we can – let's take account into our revenue number.
Okay.
And then just circling back on an earlier question you think giving a revenue outlook for 2015 those $800 million number and now you are going to be well above that it sounds like 2016 and 2017 move higher as well.
When you think of the inputs you tabulate to come up with a number so there is end market production there is going to be tape rates there might be platform mix which of those things are moving the needles on most to drive the upside in the forecast just relative to really the last six months when these revenue numbers have been put out there? It's higher automotive sales particularly in the U.S.
we use our own historical data of which we don't have the lot on K2 for them we use LMT data and double check with some other sources but that's – and we can also look at our releases as well on product that it launched.
But also all combined to have a much higher number than we thought six months ago and it is – if you look at U.S.
car sales they still remain actually very healthy so that's really driven by that.
And Europe I was cautious on Europe but we are growing in Europe again that is much as we have anticipated years ago.
But we are really taking market share so that's been helpful.
And again it's a little bit of sporadic and it's a caution I would give on our guidance or did give.
And then Asian sales which mean like I'm back to the U.S.
we are on the 276 transmission platform.
That continues to be a good platform for us that's through – we are Tier-2 to Conti not quite as predictable perhaps as we would like but that's also increasing.
So just really the combination of really being robust automotive sales.
I guess I'm trying to get a better sense of where the upside might have been because when GM launched the K2 Xx they were obviously capacitized for a certain volume level and those communicated to the suppliers.
The suppliers that are selling in the volumes that we see from a high level seem to be pretty much dragging to what GM originally communicated.
But it seems like the revenue benefit for Methode has continued to ratchet higher as the year goes on.
So was there maybe just a little built-in conservatism in the Methode guidance at the beginning of the year and you have fully realized the full GM potential or is just the GM volumes running ahead of what GM communicated? We built to a capacity level and contractually that I think it's 15% or 20% over what they’ve put in the contract.
And so from that standpoint we have enough capacity to ship whatever GM would require.
Were we conservative at the beginning of the year? You’re making the case for not giving guidance because it's very hard to predict.
Yeah we will get better as time goes on because we have been doing this for a while.
We know how to track ongoing programs but a program of that size plus you still got SUV and 31 it's hard to predict.
And we look at releases and releases have changed.
They have gone up which is great.
So are we conservative I think we are – I guess practical that is on any number of things that can change 6 months from now.
But I don't we have not had I guess major surprises in recent months on what's going on with the programs I don't talk of anything after that I think… I mean I think with last time we got better off guidance.
It was probably six months ago.
That should be in the second quarter yeah and I think we are just doing just better numbers than we are expecting.
That was five or six months ago.
I know that's hard enough predicting next month let alone a full year.
And then just a last one for me the $4 million and incremental development cost is there a return or a pay back period you typically think about when undertaking that incremental investments that might help us get a sense of how quickly you leverage those costs? Hesitating how to answer that because it is a bit of a mixed bag I think Steve had the question about where the money has been spent a good portion of it's being spent on the [Dabir Surfaces] and we would expect and to start see a return on our investment there starting in 2016 and always have to give this caution where we still need to have the product accepted and proven.
But we have a payback on that if it takes it off within just two years I mean it's a medical product.
Some of the other investments you might see three four years before you would I guess on paper say pay back but almost everything we do is geared to giving us the advantage to book more business.
The digital printing – I'm glad it's -- I think would be difficult to nail down an exact timeframe.
And we do that but on the other hand that really give us the competitive advantage.
So how much do you add to your payback the increase sales or margin on that.
That's where it gets difficult.
But really to answer your question the majority or good portion of the $4 million geared towards to Dabir and that return should start in 2016.
That's what I would say.
I mean we have our hurdle rates I mean all the… I mean we determined that it's a good use of development funds.
And if it happens sooner the internal rate of return would be just that much greater.
And if it happens later again it's medical so I think if we are looking at good returns regardless.
And when a division comes to us with a project I think you do all the math.
But we look at okay will this project improve your gross margin and that's what it's all geared to.
How do we – for all our efforts get more through to the bottom line and then as I said in my ending of my prepared remarks we – it is our innovation that causes us to have better margins or increasing margins and better sales.
Okay.
Great.
Very helpful.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
We have no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Mannie thank you.
We will thank everyone for listening today and wish everyone safe and pleasant summer.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2015 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only-mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause these actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including two large automotive customers; investment in programs prior to the recognition of revenue; timing quality and cost of new program launches; ability to withstand price pressure; dependence on our supply chain; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; customary risks related to conducting global operations; currency fluctuations; income tax rate fluctuations; fluctuations in our gross margins; the recognition of goodwill impairment charges; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to compete effectively; ability to withstand business interruptions a breach of our information technology systems and cost and expenses due to regulations regarding complex minerals.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Mannie and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2015 first quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will take your questions.
We were very pleased this morning to report that year-over-year first quarter sales grew 30% to $218 million driven mainly by higher North American automotive sales partially offset by decreased sales in interface and the power products.
Additionally consolidated gross margin increased 290 basis points in the first quarter.
The largest contributor to this improvement was increased sales but margins were also positively impacted by cost reduction activities on the K2 program in preparation for the contractual price reductions increased volume at our low-cost manufacturing facility in Egypt continued vertical integration and a lower R&amp;D spend.
Looking forward the cost reduction activities we implemented in the first quarter will likely not be additive to gross margins but will offset the contractual price reductions on the truck platform which began in July and on the [SUV] [ph] platform which will begin in January.
We also anticipate increasing our R&amp;D on both the Dabir Surface and 10-gig transceivers in the remaining quarters of this fiscal year.
For fiscal 2015 we intend to invest approximately $4 million in additional development costs compared to 2014.
First quarter selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 10.2% from 11.3% year-over-year.
While we do foresee our legal expense will be higher in the second and third quarters than in the first quarter selling and administrative expenses should be in the 10% range for the full fiscal year.
Our first quarter operating margin was 13% compared to 9% last year as income from operations improved 88% to $28 million.
Net income improved 57% to $21 million despite the fact that our effective tax rate moved from 8.7% in the first quarter of last year to 24.6% this year.
With our strong results in the first quarter we are increasing our fiscal 2015 guidance range to sales of $870 million - $885 million income from operations of $108 million to $114 million and earnings from $2.10 to $2.20.
Based on this guidance range our fiscal 2015 operating margin is in the mid-12% range which would be in line with our goal to improve our operating margin by approximately 1% every year on average.
The expected operating margin increase over fiscal 2014 is an improvement of 300 basis points.
A brief comment on fiscal 2016.
Our revenue projection issued in December 2013 included a higher growth rate for our non-automotive businesses than what we are currently seeing.
Additionally you may recall we are anticipating revenues of approximately $15 million from our 10-gig product in fiscal 2016.
That program has been pushed out about a year due to the late development of the necessary microchip by a third party shifting those revenues to fiscal 2017.
Now turning to a review of our individual segments.
Compared to last year automotive segment net sales grew 51% in the first quarter due mainly to higher sales of the General Motors K2 program and new program launches in Europe.
Automotive revenues in the first quarter exceeded industry forecast and our internal expectations.
The July shutdowns had minimal effect on our sales.
First quarter automotive gross margins improved 22.3% from 17.9% last year.
As I mentioned a moment ago higher sales cost reduction activities on the K2 program our continued vertical integration as well as increased volume at our low-cost manufacturing facility in Egypt produced the higher margins which will offset the contractual price reductions on the K2 platform.
As such we still anticipate our automotive gross margins will approximate the midpoint of our fiscal 2015 target range of low to mid 20s in the fourth quarter.
During the first quarter Methode was awarded a sensor product with Honda for their Odyssey vehicle.
The sensor is located in the vehicle's door handle for a passive entry system.
This is a first major award using Methode's HyperTouch product which addresses common challenges associated with various touch technologies such as sensing touch through a thicker substrate activating the touch cell with or without gloves providing water immunity and allowing for greater variances in manufacturing process.
The program will launch in our fiscal 2017 with average annual revenues of $5 million for five years.
In Europe we were awarded entertainment module for a Fiat Alpha platform targeted for Europe Asia Japan and the Middle East.
It will consist of three rotary control modules located behind the gear lever of the vehicle.
The program is expected to launch in our fiscal 2017 with average annual revenue of $6 million for five years.
In Asia we were awarded additional Ford lead frame volume with average annual revenue of $4 million also beginning in fiscal 2017.
Moving to our Interface segment which has been renamed from Interconnect to better reflect its user interface products.
Year-over-year first quarter revenues decreased less than 1% driven mainly by lower European and Asian sales as well as lower appliance sales than last year.
Compared to fiscal 2014 interface's gross margins declined slightly to 27.5% from 27.8% due to sales mix.
For margins to improve in this segment we would need improved sales in Methode's industrial business which we are diligently working towards as well as continued growth in our Data Solutions segment.
In power products year-over-year sales declined 6% in the first quarter driven mainly by the conclusion of a high-current bypass switch program in Europe.
However sales on our big data program somewhat offset the lower European sales and caused first quarter power products' revenues to be higher than anticipated.
Year-over-year power products gross margins increased slightly in the first quarter to 25.9% due mainly to the big data sales and manufacturing efficiencies.
For fiscal 2015 gross margins to meet their goal of mid-20s we would need to continue the pace of sales we saw in the first quarter to our big data customer throughout the fiscal year.
Finally an update on Dabir.
Dabir team has completed final manufacturing and quality system elements.
Successfully listed with UL and we are still anticipating our first sales albeit minimal this fall.
As I said in the past our initial product launch will focus on operating room procedures in excess of two hours in duration where our current product offering is optimally designed.
In summary our performance is a direct reflection of Methode's distinct competitive advantages including a leading technology a diverse range of markets worldwide presence and a lean and flexible cost structure.
We will continue to increase our investment in R&amp;D which will enhance our ability to add new technologies and new products and position us for future organic growth.
We remain really very excited about our progress and the milestones that we have accomplished as well as those that lie ahead.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will give further details regarding our financial results.
Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
As Don mentioned earlier in the first quarter we renamed the Interconnect segment to Interface to describe the user interface nature of those businesses in that segment better.
Additionally we reclassified three of our businesses within our reporting segments as follows.
We moved (Detrix) [ph] from Power Products segment to the Other segment.
Methode sensing technologies which is our torque sensing business was moved from the Other segment to the Automotive segment.
And Dabir Surfaces was moved from the Interface segment to our Other segment.
Prior year segment numbers have been reclassified to reflect these changes.
Looking at the effective tax rate based on our updated guidance the fiscal 2015 effective tax rate should be in the low to mid 20s.
This is because we no longer have the net operating loss valuation allowance to shelter domestic book income.
For the first quarter the tax rate which included some minor discrete items was 24.6%.
As we mentioned on the last call we still have the tax net operating loss available which we expect will keep U.S.
federal cash taxes to a minimum throughout fiscal 2015.
As we mentioned in the guidance factors in the earnings release the shares used to calculate diluted EPS are expected to increase between 700 000 and 800 000 in fiscal 2015.
This is due to the performance-based RSAs issued in fiscal 2011 which vest at the end of fiscal 2015.
The accounting rules require that the shares be recognized when the performance threshold is achieved which we expect will be in the later part of the fiscal year.
The diluted shares outstanding for the first quarter were 38.6 million so we would expect full-year to be between 39.3 million and 39.4 million shares.
Looking at CapEx.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2015 we spent $3.3 million and for the full year we expect our capital spending to be somewhere between $22 million and $25 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense in the first quarter was $6 million.
For fiscal 2015 we expect full-year depreciation and amortization to be between $24 million and $27 million.
Looking at EBITDA.
In the quarter it was $34.4 million or nearly 16% of sales.
Based on our fiscal 2015 guidance we expect EBITDA to remain in that 16% range and be between the $131 million maybe $136 million.
Free cash flow for the first quarter was $24.1 million and again based on our guidance we would expect the full-year free cash flow to be somewhere between $85 million and $89 million.
Don those complete my remarks.
Thank you Doug.
Mannie we are ready to take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Christopher Van Horn of FBR Capital markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for taking my call and congrats on a great quarter.
Could you just give us an update on your conversations with the OEMs around the torque sensing product? I know you guys have been kind of working with them on that.
We essentially have weekly calls with at least one of the OEMs and then monthly calls with some others.
I am hesitant to name the OEM and it is a domestic OEM.
As we continue to work with them to develop the necessary algorithms for the control of the transmission.
We know of nothing right now that would impede the implementation of the product but we do not have vehicle approval or approval to be on a vehicle just yet and we are anticipating that after the first of the year.
But progress continues.
I don’t know if there is much else I can say.
We have not had any major technical hurdles that we have overcome.
So that proceeds as planned.
Okay.
Great.
And then where is your view on Europe? I know last quarter you were cautiously looking at that region.
I just want to see if there is any update on what you are seeing over the past couple of months in that area? I am just looking for some numbers.
I remain cautious.
If you look at GDP it declined in Germany and in Italy and then it was flat in France.
We had increased sales in Europe because we had new launches and we were taking some market share but we are not where we -- we still aren't where we anticipated to be a couple of years ago.
So I don’t think my view has really changed from the last time we spoke.
Okay.
And then finally on capital deployment.
It looks like you have very strong free cash flow this year maybe you have got a very solid cash balance on the books.
How are you guys thinking about use for that cash and how you're going to kind of deploy capital moving forward? Sure.
We of course will continue to pay a dividend.
We will continue to invest in our businesses.
The improvement in gross margin this quarter was a direct result of -- at least a portion of the improvement was a direct result of our investment in vertical integration that remains very key to our performance going forward.
So we will deploy capital as that is justified by our divisions.
And then as I said in the past acquisitions that is top on my to do list and we continue to engage various entities in looking at acquisitions.
And so that is a very very key focus for us.
Thank you.
The next question is from Steve Dyer of Craig Hallum.
Please go ahead.
Did you book any 31XX revenue in the July quarter? And maybe just a little color beyond that about sort of how you see the ramp going? I know demand there at least according to GM is far in excess of what they had expected.
Any color as to how that's impacting things? Let me answer the second question first.
Since we are in launch mode we need to rely or we need to point you to what GM says.
We can't speak for our customers.
We did not ship in the quarter I can say that but we are in launch mode.
But again I would have to refer you to our customer.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Did you book any automotive tooling revenue in the quarter? I know that’s what dinged margins a little bit in the past and nothing seemed to ding in this quarter.
And I know you are still I think you have maintained you will book a decent amount of it this year.
Was any of it on Q1? We had $4 million in Q1 and that compared to Q4 which was about $9.6 million.
Okay.
And then I am trying to kind of reconcile the cost reduction steps that you have taken in the auto business with when the price downs occur.
Was there any of that in the quarter given that I don’t think the trucks priced down till July and I think you said the SUVs won't price down until January.
Was the quarter a bit of an anomaly from a gross margin standpoint just because you hadn't hit those price downs yet or is that sort of reflective of how we should think about it going forward? We had one month July and that’s why I mentioned in my prepared remarks that that the team did a very good job of bringing the cost reductions online I would even say a little bit earlier than we had planned.
So kudos to the automotive team.
But I would not add that going forward and that's why I reiterated we will be at the midpoint of our goal for automotive going forward.
Because we do have the price downs now in effect and then SUV will be in January.
Okay.
And then lastly I guess I'm having a little trouble sort of reconciling the guidance and I certainly appreciate that you guys tried to be conservative not get out ahead of your skews.
But July is normally your seasonally worst quarter generally by a pretty decent margin.
And yet you sort of flowed through the beat for the quarter and really very little else that would -- it sort of implies not a lot of pickup in subsequent quarters primarily on the revenue line.
And yet you still haven't launched 31XX as of the July quarter etcetera.
So maybe just a little bit more color as to how you're thinking about that? Are you just trying to hedge your bets a little bit given Europe and so forth or is there some reason that revenue wouldn't be materially better in the next several quarters? The July shutdown probably for the first time that I can remember had almost no effect.
It was almost we went into June full bore into July and the shutdowns really did not affect our revenue stream.
That is very unusual and I think it's indicative of what's happening in sales and in automotive which is great.
Going forward we really don't comment from quarter-to-quarter much.
31 we have said in the past is about 10% of our projected revenues.
So it's the smallest of the three launches we are doing.
And again I really can't comment anything more than that.
No I just mean that it's incremental to anything you saw in July and yet it would appear that your guidance for the next three quarters is -- to kind of get to the midpoint is not that much in excess of your July quarter.
So I hear you on the shutdowns kind of didn't ding you like it normally does but just wondering if you are trying to be conservative maybe more so than usual.
More than usual.
No also keep in mind that in our fourth quarter that our Ford center console programs begin to go end-of-life.
So we have taken that into account as well.
Thank you.
The next question is from David Leiker of Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
This is Joe Vruwink online for David.
When thinking about the time between late June when you initially provided guidance for this year and today what are some of the things that you would say have surprised on the upside.
And I think it's notable that you are raising guidance one quarter into the fiscal year so it would seem like there is probably several things on a better trajectory that give you comfort doing the guidance raise for that.
There is two things.
Automotive sales exceeded the industry forecast and our internal expectations.
We went back and looked at our model which was based on external forecasts.
And last year we hair cutted those forecasts in this year we didn’t even haircut them and the numbers came in much higher than we anticipated.
A nice surprise.
We shipped everything.
The customer wanted on time with excellent quality and the teams did a great job on the increased volume and we saw that fall to the bottom line.
The conversion was quite good.
But I -- from an automotive standpoint this is really sales higher than I think most people anticipated.
And then to a lesser extent our big data customer who a quarter ago was -- less than a quarter ago was saying they were going to -- they were over-inventoried and they were going to probably not require as much product for the next two quarters and they came in very unexpectedly with orders.
And again to our power group great job of meeting the requirements.
You know auto we planned for a certain volume higher than what normally occurs but in the power group there was that's kind of build to order and they did a great job of converting those orders in relatively short notice and to profit.
So those would be the two major reasons and believe me we have asked the question internally.
But it is really to the most part sales driven.
So what would be embedded in the updated outlook just from an end-market demand standpoint.
And thinking about you big ones I would imagine you have expectations around U.S.
auto sales North America appliances probably your European industrial businesses.
And is the growth going forward it’s still got to be more of what Methode is launching as opposed to just purely the end markets.
Well the K2 program is a significant driver of that.
I mean it is the number one driver.
I mean if you look at domestic auto sales you look at K2 sales you look at inventory if vehicles which went down not appreciably but it did go down and looking at our releases going forward warranted the increase in guidance.
And if you just look at the first quarter and if you were to run rate that and we do have our Christmas quarter coming up and that will be reduced and we do have the Ford program starting to wind down.
But that's really the driver of it.
It's not appliance.
As I said in my remarks interface was slightly down and power was not down as much as we had anticipated because of our big data customer.
I don’t -- Doug I don't know if there is any more color you would add to that.
It's a very robust automotive market.
It's the primary reason.
Okay.
Great.
Just as you have got in further into the launch phase of the Dabir product are you any closer or maybe have a better idea on what the addressable market opportunity would be just in the near term targeting kind of extended OR procedure market? I always want to answer the questions but on this one I think -- let us get our first sales which we are anticipating here in the fall and collect some data from that and then I think we can give a better read on that.
At this point I would just be speculating.
I have cautioned before that we don't have enough information to say that I would just like to hold off on that until we get some data from the operating rooms.
Which we will have likely at least preliminary data after the first of the year.
And then we will take a look at what that means for sales and addressable markets going forward.
And really the -- I have said this in the past is this a game changing product that will go in any number of hospitals that becomes a fairly robust product line for us or will it be just another alternative that a hospital can choose from? We don't know that answer yet.
And I don't mean to diminish our enthusiasm for that but I think it would be premature to speculate any further.
That makes sense.
And then my last one.
When you think about generating $85 million in free cash this year you already have $136 million on the balance sheet.
What size of acquisition do you think is definitely in the range of what Methode is capable of doing? And then it's been a while since a large acquisition you are obviously a much bigger company since you bought TouchSensor and Hetronic.
So maybe an idea of where the focus would be on in adding capability and what a return threshold might be for the assets you're looking at? We would from a return standpoint we want the acquisition to be if not immediately accretive accretive within the first year.
That's always been our goal when we have done any acquisitions or look at acquisitions.
Size wise if you do the math $137 million and $85 million you could be over -- without going in debt you could be $150 million but you could go as high as $250 million $300 million if the opportunity presented itself correctly.
And Methode is larger and is also a more mature I don’t mean older a more mature management team and probably more capable of handling a larger -- managing and acquiring a larger company.
And it would be -- and I said in the past it's going to be something that's complementary to our existing businesses.
So industrial medical you never say never so I won't rule out automotive if the right acquisition came on there.
But we want it to be complementary and maybe add a path to market bring additional technology.
Doug anything you would add to that? No just that the team I think has had enough practice with integrating TouchSensor and Hetronic and so we have got the confidence that we can handle something larger and probably even do it better this time.
Would you say you're in active discussions with any potential targets right now later stage of discussions? If I was I wouldn't say.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And the next question is from Jimmy Baker of B.
Riley.
Please go ahead.
Just on the power products side can you maybe help us bridge gross margins sequentially there? A really big jump despite the decline in sales.
Is that all just a function of mix towards your big data customer? And then I think you mentioned that you'd need to retain this level of big data sales to maintain this level of profitability in that power products business.
So can you help us understand how that's looking in Q2? What your visibility is like there? Sure.
Let me answer the last one first.
We are expecting similar performance in Q2.
Now it's not likely that we are going to get four quarters of big data business.
It's not occurred in the past so we factor that into our guidance.
And if you recall in our remarks at the end of fiscal '14 we weren't anticipating hitting the gross margin targets for power.
And for us really great that we would need four quarters of big data and I don't -- and that's why I made the comment on the prepared remarks.
The other base business is good margin business but not enough to get it to its target.
And then [Mil air] (ph) was still down.
And that’s really the main reason that we don’t see the growth in power that we originally had anticipated.
That we are just not going to see a recovery anytime soon in that.
The military spending would have changed dramatically for that to occur.
Okay.
Understood.
And I think you mentioned that you're working on improving the Hetronic business.
Can you just elaborate on what steps you're taking there? What progress you're making? And then what level of Hetronic improvement is baked into the guide? What we're doing with Hetronic is essentially going through its product line and applying I guess our automotive pedigree to it.
Going through and modernizing its PC boards.
Hetronic product is a good product but if you look at internally we feel there is just too many jumpers and we wanted to streamline the product.
They cost out of it make it more robust and we are in the process of doing that.
And it's our automotive team coupled with the Hetronic team are doing it.
So that’s an important step in that.
We want to be able to have as strong a product as we have in let's say the K2 product as we would in Hetronic.
And so we took steps to strengthen that.
Not that there was significant issues it's just that we thought there was too much rework before the product went out the door which is not -- you know it's not like Methode.
First time pass through is always our goal.
And then we are on some of their handheld product we are reducing the size of that reducing the cost on that to market.
And we are also adding to sales as well.
We think that's a very important -- and not just to sell the radio remotes.
I have commented on oil rigs in the past that we have at Methode we have the capability of doing not only the remote control and the transceiver we can do the software.
And in this instance we are actually doing a hydraulic.
So Methode is applying its automotive full-service supplier to Hetronic.
Which is a change for them but it makes the opportunities much greater.
And then as far as in the guide we had very minimal growth for Hetronic in that.
I think that probably we probably did it flat.
It would just take us a while to make any changes.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
Thanks.
And then last for me just a few questions here on the legal spend.
I guess first do you still expect roughly that $1.7 million of legal expenses related to Hetronic for the full year? And if so what was the Q1 impact? And then separately in your Qs you continue to call out the SG&amp;A headwind from legal expenses relating to torque sensing.
Can you just give us an update on those proceedings? And I guess lastly overall is the legal spend increasing sequentially or once we lap this spend will kind of that headwind go away? I always think it's going to go away and then something occurs.
The legal spend on torque sensing is a former employee wrote a patent on I guess an application or a derivative of the technology and we expect him to turn that patent over to us because of our -- and I don't want to get too much into it but that's essentially what happened.
And so we filed a lawsuit and that’s where the spend is coming there.
And Hetronic that will continue at that pace.
In fact I think we said in the second or third quarter it will be higher and then we would hopefully would conclude that by our fourth quarter.
And then barring nothing else we would think that would be a one-time or two one-time events if you can actually have that.
But again I wasn't expecting to have a patent issue.
Sure.
What was the Q1 impact though of the combined legal spend? I think legal expense in total was $1.8 million in the quarter.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
That's not all litigation that was our ongoing general.
Thank you.
The next question is from Steve Dyer of Craig Hallum.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Just a follow up.
Any further indication on when there may be a cut over to the capacitive screen? Anything you can say about whether the 31XX has it or doesn't have it? And maybe any more on the timing to the extent that you can say when we may get that with the K2? This must be your day for me not answering your questions.
I have to point to the customer.
We have the information but until the customer does their announcements we can't say anything more than we are ready to go.
But presumably that's embedded in your margin guidance for auto this year right? Yes yes.
That's correct.
Thank you.
We have no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Mannie thank you very much and we will thank everyone for listening today and now wish everyone a safe and prosperous fall.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only-mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the securities laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
The forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause these actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including two large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries investment in programs prior to the recognition of revenue; timing volume quality and cost of new program launches; ability to withstand price pressure; dependence on our supply chain; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; customary risks related to conducting global operations; currency fluctuations; income tax rate fluctuations; fluctuations in our gross margins; the recognition of goodwill impairment charges; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to compete effectively; ability to withstand business interruptions a breach of our information technology systems and cost and expenses due to regulations regarding complex minerals.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
Thank you Adam and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2015 second quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will be pleased to take your questions.
As we reported this morning year-over-year second quarter sales grew 20% and first half sales grew 25% driven mainly by higher North American automotive and power products sales partially offset by decreased sales in interface.
Looking to the second half of the year we expect revenues to decrease slightly compared to the first half affected by the full impact of the contractual automotive price reductions of the first portion of the Ford center console program going end of life in the fourth quarter lower overall third quarter sales through the holidays and reduced appliance sales which I will discuss further in a minute.
Second quarter consolidated gross margins increased 450 basis points and in the first six months improved 370 basis points driven mainly by higher sales and the corresponding the manufacturing efficiencies but margins were also positively impacted by a $1.3 million reimbursement for the cancellation of a center program worth $9 million in annual revenues which was to start in fiscal 2016 $0.6 million for increased manufacturing efficiencies non-recurring price increases on legacy products and other improvements at AMD Methode’s captive injection molder also a very favorable automotive and power products sales mix as well as increased volume at our lower cost manufacturing facility in Egypt.
We want to take this moment here to congratulate our teams in Europe and Egypt for the successful start-up of this facility over the past few years.
Looking forward we anticipate lower second half margins as a result of decreased overall third quarter revenues through the holidays lower appliance sales the absence of the cancelled program benefit and one time price increase we saw in the second quarter the first portion of the Ford center program going end of life the full impact of the truck and SUV contractual price reductions and higher R&amp;D spend for the chip development on the 10 gig transceivers of approximately $2 million.
Worldwide we are very pleased with efficiencies which all of our factories are operating.
And I congratulate our teams on their continuous efforts to improve our manufacturing efficiencies.
These efforts continue to have a very favourable effect on our margins.
Year-over-year second quarter selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 11.1% from 10.3% and for the first six months decreased slightly to 10.6% from 10.7%.
In the second quarter salary and bonus accruals increased due to the company’s strong performance.
We do expect compensation expense to increase SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales in the second half of the year as well.
Additionally legal travel and other expenses also increased.
Legal expenses were $3.7 million in the first half and we anticipate approximately the same for the second half of the year.
As such we expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to approximate 11% for the full year.
Our second quarter operating margin was 15.1% compared to 11.4% last year.
And income from operations improved 60% to nearly $35 million.
In the first half operating margin increased to 14% from 10% as income from operations grew 71% to $63million.
Earnings per share improved 29% in the second quarter and 39% in the first half despite the fact that year over year our effective tax rate increased from 6.6% to 25% in the second quarter and from 7.5% to nearly 25% in the first six months.
Given these results we have increased our overall profit outlook for fiscal 2015 to a range of $114 million to $120 million for income from operations and $2.20 to $2.30 for earnings per share.
We are reaffirming our sales guidance range of $870 million to $885 million as we anticipate appliance sales will be about $7 million lower in the first half due to our revised internal projections.
Based on this guidance range our fiscal 2015 operating margin target is in the 13.1% to 13.6% range.
Now turning to review of individual segments compared to last year.
Automotive segment net sales grew 32% in the second quarter and 40% in the first six months due to overall higher center console sales as well as higher lead frame sales and non-recurring price adjustments at the AMD.
Automotive gross margins improved to 25.9% in the second quarter and to 24.4% in the first half.
As I mentioned a moment ago higher sales were the main driver to the improvement.
The margins were also positively impacted by a very favourable sales mix vertical integration the program cancellation reimbursement increased manufacturing efficiencies non-recurring price increases and other improvements in AMD as well as increased volumes at our low cost manufacturing facility in Egypt.
Without the reimbursement and price adjustment first half gross margins would have been 23.7%.
Looking to the second half we anticipate automotive gross margins will be lower compared to the first half attributable to decreased overall third quarter revenues through the holidays and the first portion of the Ford center console program going end of life and truck and SUV contractual price reductions.
However we still anticipate our automotive gross margins will approximate the midpoint of our fiscal 2015 target range of low to mid 20s.
During the second quarter Methode was awarded the infotainment and HVAC modules as well as other content for the next line-up of Aston Martin vehicles.
The program is expected to launch in our fiscal 2017 with average annual revenue of $4 million per year for four years.
We were also awarded the domestic center console program for an SUV for model year 2018 launching late in our fiscal 2017 with average annual revenue of approximately $18 million for four years.
Moving to Interface segment.
Year-over-year second quarter revenues decreased 8% driven mainly by lower North American remote control and appliance sales and lower Asian remote control sales than last year.
In the first half sales fell 5% due to lower North America appliance sales and lower remote control sales in the Asia and Europe.
We anticipate interface sales will be lower in the second half as compared to the first half due to a reduced sales outlook for appliances.
Sales to our largest appliance customer for our major laundry program dropped off significantly towards the end of the quarter.
Therefore we have reduced our expectations for the program for the balance of this year.
Compared to fiscal 2014 interface’s gross margin declined in both periods due to the lower sales.
In power products year-over-year sales improved 15% in the second quarter and nearly 5% in the first half driven mainly by higher North American and Asian datacom sales as well as increased demand for busbars and cable assemblies in Asia somewhat offset by lower bypass switch sales in Europe.
This segment is having its best year in its 30-year history.
I congratulate the team on this very noteworthy accomplishment.
Year over year power products gross margins improved to nearly 32% in the second quarter and 29% in the first half due mainly to a favourable sales mix and manufacturing efficiencies.
Finally an update on Dabir.
Over the last two months 100 plus cardiovascular surgical procedures have been performed utilizing the Dabir surface with zero adverse tissue effects or quality issues.
The surgical procedures were 4 to 8.5 hours in duration with patient’s weight ranging from 150 to over 400 pounds.
These procedures are taking place at one hospital in the Midwest which is part of our safe launch strategy.
It is our intent to add additional surgical sites using Dabir Surfaces early next calendar year.
We are currently negotiating a rollout plan with two more hospitals in the Midwest and one in Asia.
This process entails a great deal of documentation with the hospitals as well as meeting the requirements of the respective internal review boards.
Our commercialization strategy continues to be the utilization of direct sales independent sales representatives and distributors.
We are currently focusing on hiring representatives nationally who specialize in the surgical arena and to date we have secured positions in the Midwest and the Northeast.
In summary Methode’s first half revenue growth combined with manufacturing efficiencies vertical integration and a favorable sales mix enabled us to post strong margins and operating profit as well as improve earnings per share and resulted in improved overall profit outlook for the fiscal year.
We look forward to pursuing the opportunities in front of us and continue to strive to grow our industrial and medical businesses through product development and innovation.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will give us further details regarding our financial results.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone.
I have just a few brief comments on the quarter and six months period.
Again the effective tax rate used in our guidance is in the mid-20s.
And again this is higher than the previous year because of the effect that we no longer have the net operating loss valuation allowance to shelter the book income.
So for the six months period the tax rate which included some firs quarter discrete items was 24.9%.
As we mentioned on the call last time we still have tax net operating losses available which we expect will keep U.S.
federal cash taxes and certain state cash taxes to a minimum throughout the fiscal year.
The shares used to calculate the diluted EPS for the six month period increased to 39 million from 38.6 million in the first quarter.
This was due to the performance-based restricted stock awards that were issued back in 2011 which vest at the end of fiscal ’15.
The accounting rules require that the shares be recognized in the shares outstanding calculation when the performance threshold is achieved which again occurred in the second quarter.
So for the full year 2015 the diluted shares outstanding will increase to approximately 39.5 million shares.
CapEx in the first half of fiscal ’15 was $10.8 million.
For the full year we expect it to be at the $22 million to $25 million range.
That’s the same as our prior estimate.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the first half of ’15 was $12 million and again we expect the full year to be at about the $24 million to $27 million which again is unchanged from our prior estimate.
EBITDA in the six months period was $75 million or nearly 17% of sales.
Based on our 2015 guidance range we expect EBITDA to remain in the 16% to 17% range and be between the $140 million and $145 million.
Free cash flow for the six month period was $48.6 million and again based on our guidance we would expect the full-year free cash flow to be between $89 million and $93 million.
Don that concludes my remarks.
Doug thank you very much.
Adam we are ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley &amp; Company.
Good morning.
This is Austin Dreg [ph] on for Jimmy Baker.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Can you provide some additional color on that cancelled automotive program what products were you supplying and what triggered the cancelation? Also what was the annual revenue contribution and then was that expect to go end of life? The annual revenue was about 9 million end of life probably three years.
I can tell you it was not a torque sensor type product.
I really don’t want to get into anything more than that that it was a sensor negotiation with customers on canceled programs and be a bit sensitive.
But it was a sensor program of slated for 9 million and our planning for next year it was a one segment of a worldwide program one continent but the customer decided to go on a different direction with their product.
It was nothing that we did.
It was just a change in the customer’s direction and that we would expect to be reimbursed for our expenses.
And then you experienced a large jump in SG&amp;A deleveraging despite the 20% sales growth.
How does that compare to your expectation and how should we think about SG&amp;A going forward not just this year but in general what kind of leverage would you like to see? Going forward we expected 11% for the balance of this year.
SG&amp;A as I said in our prepared remarks is affected by really compensation expense given Methode’s performance.
Going forward and we’re coming to the end of our five year plan we are having to accrue at the appropriate level that has an impact on SG&amp;A that will not continue into next year as the plan terminates and of course there will be another plan but you start all over again.
Tandem cash has an effect because of stock price.
So some of that will mitigate next year but every year we will have salary increases and so on and so if we don’t expect a meaningful increase in SG&amp;A but we do expect it to be to go moderately as we go forward.
Yes couple of the business units that were not performing up to the threshold a year ago started to hit their numbers.
So we needed to do basically almost the two year catch-up on those accruals because they are now performing either at target or at maximum.
So there is quite a large adjustment for two of our business units in the one quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Dyer with Craig Hallum.
A lot of the implied I guess weakness or the reason you are not raising more if the back half for the fiscal year comes from appliances did you lose a customer? It sounds like maybe your major customer pulled back is that a function do you think of high finished goods or has their trajectory in that program changed at all? The customer – we are in front loads laundry program which is a higher price point for the customer.
The customer launched a top load product which may have eroded the front load sales a bit.
We don’t know if that’s all of it.
We don’t know our customer’s overall sales were down the top load is a lower price point to the consumer.
So that could be some of it.
There is a some expectations that might recover after the first of the year but our experience has been that there is a bit of a downturn that lasts more than a few weeks.
So we have I think very wisely reduced our forecast.
So to some degree Steve it’s too soon to tell and that was the product can go end of life.
There is no recall there is – we’re just looking at our forecasting and releases from the customer and making adjustments.
And it occurred late in our second quarter.
Hopping over to automotive how long – refresh my memory if you could – how long your the K2 award is expected to run and maybe your understanding of when the successor to that program will go into bid? Sure.
It was a five year program.
We are in the second year.
So we have another three years three model years.
When it gets rebid I would say in the next 12 to 18 months.
It’s really dependent on where the customer is on their design cycles when they are out of the studio but where they are a point they can request information and the quotations from vendors.
But I would expect that follows the same pattern as it did in the past within the next 12 to 18 months.
And I am guessing you are going to pass on this question Don but I will ask it anyway that you guys have launched that seemingly pretty flawlessly.
Any sense on confidence level for the next generation of that program? Certainly our successful launch gets you a ticket or I shouldn’t assume but gets you a ticket to the next game but it really comes down to design or competitiveness and so on and I have probably already said more than our trade guys would like me to say.
So you won’t know for a while is the bottom line.
Correct.
And then lastly as it relates to the Dabir product can you remind me as to whether these are paid trials or not and then anyway of sort of sizing up how you think about revenue in the outyear for that product? The trials are paid for generally we will give the hospital the first month expenses of – not charge them for that so they can try it and then get comfortable with the product and then after that we expect to be compensated.
We sell the overlays and then we lease or ramp the controllers.
Revenue wise I think as we get closer to giving our FY16 guidance we will put some parameters around what we expect a little too soon to tell you we are encouraged by the number of surgeries pressure also but I would say that’s somewhat statistically inconsequential right now.
I think we’d want to see many many more in that different hospitals before we could draw some conclusions.
So it’s just too soon to tell but the revenue numbers around it which had no issues with the launch we got no issues during the surgeries.
So we are encouraged by that our production is set we are hiring reps.
So we are in – we’re definitely into the selling mode right now.
And then one more quick one if I may.
Obviously you continue to generate a lot of cash and the balance sheet is in great shape.
Anymore updated thoughts there whether it be M&amp;A or how you would look to deploy that? First of all a lot of our cash is still outside the US which – if we did a European or an Asian acquisition that would be helpful.
We would pay of course taxes we repatriated to the US so as far as some of the other use of cash other than acquisition as I always investing our businesses and acquisitions are our number one use.
But as far as dividend increases or stock buybacks and so on that is something we discuss and we will probably get more discussion as we build our US cash position but we are not quite there yet.
And we did hire a New York boutique firm to assist us with acquisitions.
They have been on board now for maybe three months and we have been meeting with them regularly to pursue acquisitions.
Our next question comes from the line of Christopher Van Horn with FBR Capital Markets.
Just to your last comment there are there any discussions about potential divestitures with the firm that you have hired? We – I must say routinely but it’s really part of our annual review we look at our portfolio of companies.
And their review is to look at companies for acquisition likely to be a larger dollar acquisitions that we have done in the past and so I have said before well then once you were to take on debt then logically you might look at some of our holdings that are not as core to our overall strategy and then they would be part of that divestiture if we chose to do that.
And then you talked a lot about the lead frame the transition lead frame having some success this quarter.
Was that specific to certain programs or was it kind of a broad based success? Can you just get into a little more detail there? Sure.
That is – were tiered to to continental for transmission controller.
That the revenues for that product do vary from quarter to quarter based on their customer demand.
We don’t have quite as much visibility here as we would have if we were in tier 1 and that was – they had a very good quarter both in the manufacturer in Shanghai and in Monterey Mexico.
To some degree – more than to some degree it goes with the SAR increased automotive sales is a very beneficial to that business as it goes on several platforms.
And when you talk about kind of increased production out of the Egyptian plant is there more to go? I mean is there more capacity in that plant that we might see in the coming quarters that will possibly help our margins here? Yes I was saying in my margin comments that halfway through the midpoint of our target range.
Take that into account certainly as we enter ’16 and ’17 that is a key component of our strategy in Europe and that to improve our margins.
For example we are launching the Renault center console there including the decorative painting which is always difficult to launch.
So that will give us a very strong positioning in Europe from a cost standpoint to pursue other center console – and other products.
So the team has done a very good job of bringing the product up – or bringing the factory up definitely this quarter helped at a significant contribution.
So I don’t know that I would go any further on the second half of this year on margin improvement with that but certainly going forward it’s a key factor.
And then one last question if you don’t mind.
Could you just give us an update on the torque sensor pipeline? We continue to receive favourable comments from our customers on the data that they are receiving from the torque sensor.
There has been no – I am not going to go – there has been no hiccups in the recent testing.
And they will know in this coming calendar year whether that is going to go on in automobile or not.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Hi good morning.
This is Joe Vruwink on for David.
Don you talked about a lot of things on why automotive margins would have improved in the quarter but if I just look at the sequential revenue increases you’ve seen really over the last 18 months so it seemed like this quarter stands out as I was just thinking our gross profit contribution it’s been kind of in the 20% range this quarter even if you strip out the one timers to 65% is there anything unusual that’s going on there because it just seems like a very big jump? Well you do need to take out the one time – but I think you said you did but our factories continue to perform with excellence – efficiency low cost to quality around the world.
And there is always room for improvement.
But I don’t know that that I would take that and continue that into the next six quarters and this year and next year.
We had a very favourable mix.
I did point that out.
And that will vary from quarter to quarter.
We have a good sales in Asia and some of our domestic programs certainly are good programs for us but some of our other programs particularly outside of the US and Europe and Asia carry higher margins.
And when that mix flows in the right direction that has a very positive effect on margins.
Some of the programs we have in Asia are much smaller than our US programs but they do carry higher margins.
So I don’t want to raise expectations that’s something that we can continue through the next 12 to 18 months but we do have price reductions they are contractual those won’t affect automatically we try to offset those with our factory efficiency and changes and so on.
But they have an effect.
Doug I don’t know if there is anything else.
No I don’t think any.
I don’t think I can.
I mean any how I mentioned on the last question.
Egypt has been a positive factory we have seen that but that’s not a step function that will improve as time goes on but there is also going to be offset by price reductions elsewhere in the world.
Switching gears a little bit.
You touched on the Ford center console roll-off is there anyway to frame that a dollar impact initially in the timeframe over what the time the seven vehicle models will be rolling off? It’s up to the customers to when they actually introduce those but in round numbers and this will vary by the customers’ production needs quarter to quarter but in fiscal ’14 last year the business was in the high $40 million range continuing it in we saw that in Q1 and Q2 of this year as well Q3 and Q4 are going down to let’s say 15 million 16 million 17 million range and the next year total is around 12 million.
And again those will vary by custom demand.
And then last one from me first of all I congrats on the center console so look for Methode in the next James Bond film.
On the domestic programs you've won I think there is three now that are launching domestically in kind of that fiscal ’17 timeframe just wondering are you utilizing your own touchscreens on any of those and can you say if the – I know you can't announce OEMs but can you say whether those programs are with different domestic automakers? Well it’s one of the Detroit 3.
We are using our – I want to verify but I believe we are using our capacitive touch screen on the majority but I think I want to get back to you on that.
There may be one with a smaller non-touch screen.
Are they all three with one of the Detroit automakers or do you have several of them represented? I think I will pass on that question.
I just – and we can announce what customer and program once our customer does and they haven’t done that.
So I need to pass on that Joe.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Dyer with Craig Hallum.
Thanks.
Just a follow up for me guys as it relates to the capacitive touch screen have you changed over to that on the K2 program yet? We can say that we are totally vertically integrated on that.
What about the 31XX? Yes we are totally integrated in all that.
Does that offer margin upside going forward? I know you’ve had high expectations for a margin bump there.
Have we kind of already begun to see that? I think it’s hard to quantify that.
The factory efficiencies and then the overall – as I stated earlier that the overall performance of factories is probably the main driver here and some of the vertical integration certainly plays but overall I would say that we have seen the benefit of all of those efforts and yes the factories can continue to improve and they should but we have seen – I believe we have seen the benefit of all of that mainly those were all designed to improve margins and also provide their contractual price down to our customers.
So as I said good job of teams and good planning particularly – the planning for those events started two years ago more than two years ago.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you ladies and gentlemen there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for closing remarks.
Adam thank you very much.
We will close off the call by wishing everyone a very safe and pleasant holiday season.
Good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Welcome to the Methode Electronics Fiscal 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only-mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the Securities Laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause these actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including two large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries investment in programs prior to the recognition of revenue; ability to withstand price pressure; timing volume quality and cost of new program launches; dependence on our supply chain; currency fluctuations; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; customary risks related to conducting global operations; income tax rate fluctuations; fluctuations in our gross margins; the recognition of goodwill impairment charges; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.; ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures; ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to compete effectively; ability to withstand business interruptions; breach of our information technology systems; and cost and expenses due to regulations regarding complex minerals.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer for Methode Electronics.
[2:10] Thank you Adam and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2015 third quarter financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Doug Koman Chief Financial Officer; and Ron Tsoumas Controller.
Both Doug and I have comments and afterwards we will take your questions.
As we reported this morning year-over-year third quarter sales grew 8.5% and first nine months sales grew 19% driven mainly by higher North American Automotive and Power Products sales partially offset by decreased sales in interface.
Third quarter consolidated gross margins increased 700 basis points and in the first nine months improved 470 basis points driven mainly in both periods by higher sales and the corresponding manufacturing efficiencies as well as increased volume at our lower cost manufacturing facility in Egypt.
In the third quarter favorable raw material commodity pricing in both the Automobiles and Power Products segments also positively impacted margins.
In the nine months period margins were also positively impacted by the 1.3 million reimbursement for the cancellation of a center program and the non-recurring price increases on legacy products at AMD which we discussed last quarter.
Sequentially third quarter consolidated margins improved over the second quarter as our manufacturing efficiencies and the favorable commodity pricing I mentioned a moment ago were able to offset lower overall third quarter revenue due to the holidays reduced appliance sales the first portion of the Ford Center Console program going end of life and the full impact of the truck and SUV contractual price reductions.
Worldwide we are very pleased with the efficiency which all of our factories are operating and I congratulate our teams on their continuous efforts to improve our manufacturing efficiency.
These efforts continue to have a very favorable effect on our margins.
Year-over-year third quarter selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 10.4% from 11.6% and for the first nine months decreased to 10.6% from 11.1%.
Third quarter selling and administrative expenses came in lower than we expected due mainly to lower compensation expense related to the long-term incentive plan of $1.8 million.
We anticipate SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to approximate 10% to 11% for the full year.
Our third quarter operating margin was 16.8% compared to 8.6% last year as income from operations improved 112% to nearly $35 million.
In the first nine months operating margin increased to 14.9% from 9.7% as income from operations grew 83% to nearly $98 million.
Earnings per share improved 79% in the third quarter and 51% in the first nine months despite the fact that year-over-year our effective tax rate increased from 8.8% to 23% in the third quarter and from 8% to 24% in the first nine months.
Given these results we have increased our overall profit outlook for fiscal 2015 to a range of $130 million to $135 million for income from operations and $2.50 to $2.60 for earnings per share.
We are reaffirming our sales guidance range of $870 million to $885 million as we anticipate reduced appliance sales will continue in the fourth quarter.
Based on this guidance range our fiscal 2015 operating margin target is in the 15% to 15.3% range.
Now turning to review of our individual segments; compared to last year Automotive segment net sales grew 9.5% in the third quarter as a result of higher General Motor center console sales and increased sales in our Asian operations.
These gains were partially offset by a lower volume for the Ford center console transmission lead-frame hidden switch and steering angle sensor products as well as lower tooling sales and currency fluctuations which impacted European sales.
For the nine months period Automotive [sales] [ph] grew by 29% primarily as a result of higher General Motor center console program and transmission lead-frame volume partially offset by lower Ford center console demand and again currency rate fluctuations which impacted our European operations.
As a reminder we are anticipating that the Ford center console program will have gone end of life at the end of our fiscal 2015 and are estimating that fiscal 2016 revenues from this program will be about 25% of what they were in fiscal 2015.
Automotive gross margins improved to 26.3% in the third quarter and to 25.1% in the first nine months.
As I mentioned a moment ago higher sales in the corresponding manufacturing efficiencies was the main driver but margins were also positively impacted by increased volume at our lower cost manufacturing facility in Egypt and in the third quarter by favorable raw material commodity pricing.
Moving to our Interface segment year-over-year third quarter revenues decreased 11% in first nine months [indiscernible] nearly 7% driven mainly by lower Asian and European radio remote control sales and lower North American appliance sales partially offset by higher data solutions sales.
We continue to anticipate reduced demand for our appliance products in the fourth quarter.
But believe we will see some sequential improvement in Hetronic as we expect sales to key customers we're back on track in the fourth quarter.
Compared to fiscal 2014 Interface's gross margin declined in both periods due to the lower sales and increased development cost for our 10-gig transceiver product.
In Power Products year-over-year sales improved 45% in the third quarter and nearly 19% in the first nine months driven mainly by higher North American and Asian sales.
The segment continues to have its best year in its 30-year history.
I congratulate the team on this very noteworthy accomplishment.
Year-over-year Power Products' gross margins improved to over 40% in the third quarter and nearly 34% in the first nine months due mainly to improved sales and the corresponding manufacturing efficiencies as well as favorable commodity pricing in the third quarter.
It is interesting to note that year-over-year the segment contributed 200 basis points of the 700 basis points improvement in consolidated gross margin for the third quarter.
Finally an update on Dabir; Dabir continues to make progress since its soft launch in September.
To-date nearly 200 procedures ranging from four to 20 hours durations have been completed and a data side with no adverse tissue effects reported.
We have initiated surgical procedures at a second site with continued success and have begun discussions and I'd say further implementation.
Our third site has requested to perform a product evaluation for implementation beyond the surgical suite and we're investigating adapting the current surgical solutions to fit their needs in this arena.
Channel to market development continues with sales coverage now on five states and we're embarking upon a national sales expansion plan to be executed in the upcoming fiscal year.
It's apparent that we have a product that's regarded as a great deal of interest not only at the hospital facilities but the medical community in general.
In summary Methode's revenue growth combined with manufacturing efficiencies favorable commodity pricing and lower than anticipated SG&amp;A enabled us to pull strong margins as well as improve earnings per share which resulted in the overall profit outlook for the fiscal year.
We remain confident and we have the right people the right technology the right strategies in place to grow our businesses and drive sustained profitable growth for our shareholders.
Now I will turn the call over to Doug who will give us further details on the financial results.
Thank you Don.
Good morning everyone.
I have just a few brief comments on the quarter and the nine months period.
I'd like to point out that the year-over-year third quarter and nine month sales were negatively impacted by 3.4 million due to the recent strengthening of the U.S.
dollar primarily against the euro.
Additionally other income expense net improved 600 000 in the third quarter and 1 million for the nine months period due to the net favorable fluctuation of the various functional currencies versus their transactional currencies in our foreign business units.
Looking at taxes because we no longer have the net operating loss valuation allowance to shelter domestic book income the nine months tax rate was 24.2% compared to 8% last year.
This is in line with our guidance range of a mid 20% tax rate.
As mentioned on the last call we still have tax net operating losses available which we expect will keep U.S.
federal cash taxes and certain state cash taxes to a minimum throughout fiscal 2015.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2015 we spent 12.8 million for capital expenditures.
For the full year fiscal 2015 we expect capital spending to be between 20 and 22 that is down slightly from our prior estimate.
Depreciation and amortization expense in the first quarter -- in the first nine months of 2015 was 17.5 million for fiscal'15 we expect the full year depreciation and amortization to be between 22 million and 25 million.
This is also down from our prior year estimate.
Looking at EBITDA in the nine months period it was nearly 116 million or 18% of sales.
Based on our fiscal 2015 guidance we expect EBITDA to remain in the 18% range and be between 157 million and 160 million for the full year.
Lastly for the nine month period of 2015 free cash flow was 79.2 million; based on our guidance we expect fiscal 2015 free cash flow to be between 102 million and 108 million.
Don that concludes my remarks.
Doug thank you very much.
Adam we're prepared to take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Chris Van Horn with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my call and congrats on the quarter.
Thank you Chris.
Could you just give us an update on some of the new products you're bidding on now or bringing out to the market things like SmartCenter Stack the torque sensing maybe HyperTouch; can you give me some color on what you're seeing out there? Sure I have to be a little guarded because this is a competitive situation but I'll give you as much information as I can.
Let me start with torque sensing.
We have no business to announce at this point but we continue to get favorable feedback from our customers and we're doing testing on that product both in Europe and United States.
We would expect that we'd have some indication during this calendar year.
But I think the important point there is we have not experienced any testing issues with the customers.
So that continues to move forward.
On HyperTouch we continue to offer that to our clients customers as well as others -- as you know we announced I think probably two quarters ago we were successful in getting that technology designed in a Honda.
We continue to pursue keyless entry both at Honda and others for that technology.
Again we don't have any wins to announce -- further wins to announce on that but that continues to be very well received and we continue to refine the technology.
We talked about Dabir and that we're embarking on expanding the sales there and as we mentioned at the last conference we attended we're working on developing product that goes beyond the surgical suite which we have acknowledged is a much larger market.
But again we're concentrating our sales efforts right now on the surgical area.
SmartCenter console we continue to evolve that and present that to our customers that places us I think very well -- we’re very well positioned to garner more center console business of course in the news there is all sorts of discussion on what the next center console and connectivity in the vehicle are going to be.
We also on 10-gigs we continue to invest in the chip; recently had very favorable results from testing of the first samples and anticipating that contributing to revenues in our fiscal '17.
And I believe that covers the -- and I shall also talk about our lithium-ion UPS we are very close to having our UL approval on that and we do have a slight backlog which is good and it's depended upon shipping and it's dependent upon UL approval which we anticipate here shortly.
Okay great.
And kind of touching on the appliance market; can you just tell us what you're seeing out there? You certainly told us you expected some headwinds out of that market but just a little more color on what's going on there.
Sure.
Our customers particularly our largest customer is doing well.
We're seeing as our major laundry program those revenues have been affected by a -- like I said less expensive top-load product that the customer came out with and that's really eroding sales of the products that we're on which is a frontload much more expensive type unit.
And whether that turns around or not in the next year I think it remains to be seen.
But that's really the effect.
It's not so much the appliance industry as it of that particular situation.
Got it got it.
And then just one more if you don't mind on the Trace Labs divestiture could you just -- was that something that you were looking to sell or did someone approach you; and just kind of the thought process around the divesture if you don't mind? And then just as a follow on to that this is kind of the second one in the past year and can we just continue to believe that you're constantly reviewing your portfolio for these types of transactions.
Thanks.
Let me answer the last question first.
We continue to review our portfolio our strategies and so on and determine what is core what's not.
Specific to Trace Trace Labs was initiated many years ago to perform testing on Methode's products.
Really before my time and Doug's time the Founder believed that having a centralized testing lab would be beneficial to Methode and certainly has been.
Years ago what we asked Trace to do to better utilize the equipment is to take an outside business which they were very successful in doing both here and Illinois also and Maryland.
And what also happened over the years I'd say probably in the last several years is our divisions have their own testing capabilities and in auto probably the largest that continue to grow and not that Trace was not doing a good job.
It's just the evolution of a product some of the testing needed to be onsite and particularly in Europe and Asia.
So at a certain point we decided that if someone were to approach us we would entertain the sale and we were -- had been approached through the years but at the timing seemed right and the suitor had very good credentials and we executed the sale.
Okay great.
Thanks again congrats.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Dyer of Craig Hallum.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning Doug good morning Don.
Good quarter.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I would like to dig in I guess a little bit to the sustainability of the margins; in a couple different segments you talk about raw material benefit in the quarter.
Are you able to quantify that I guess a little bit more for us and then sort of how sustainable do you feel like that is as a tailwind going forward? Primarily the commodity was copper.
And we all follow COMEX and right now it's had a favorable effect.
Whether that continues we'll have to see what the worldwide commodity does.
But in general in sustainability of margins we had very good margins in Power probably some of the best we've ever had certainly helped by our big data customer and in the factory efficiencies but as I said on the call I congratulate the team for taking cost out of the products cost out of the factory.
And we'll continue to do that I mean we talked a lot about efficiencies in our automotive plants.
We apply the same strategies in our non-auto plants and we're seeing the benefit of that in Power.
The big driver there of course is sales and Power has a very good [prime] [ph] that when the sales are at a certain point the factory efficiencies are quite good.
Is that sustainable? That is sustainable to a degree but also is dependent upon our large customers in that area not as a predictable business as auto.
And I think we said we've got about one quarter of visibility and anticipate a similar quarter here in the fourth quarter for power.
Elsewhere I mean you saw in interface the margins are affected there because our sales are down again we are anticipating a little better sales in Hetronic in the fourth quarter and we have undertaken efforts to improve Hetronic's factory and margins as well.
There I would say that is dependent upon -- largely dependant upon sales.
And then in auto as I've said before we have contractual price downs that have gone into effect.
There is additional ones next year that are to be in the automotive business.
Our teams they are ahead of the -- where we expect them to be in their factory improvements in their cross-selling models and we saw the effect of that in the quarter.
But in general for Methode's margins to continue to improve we do need a non-automotive product to ramp Dabir and all of them that I talked about from Chris' question.
[End] Okay.
And then I guess within auto how much of a benefit is the Egyptian manufacturing facility and is that going to be a bigger part of mix going forward such that these should be relatively sustainable margins in that segment? There is no doubt that Egypt is helping us.
It's helping us in the European arena that doesn't help us in the U.S.
Product to Egypt and we've been successful doing that.
It has taken a little longer than we wanted but we -- the plant has been very well received by -- from the customers and the customers have ordered it.
So we will continue to transfer products as appropriate.
It has to be more labor-intensive.
We wouldn't take our highly automated product that we have and also that wouldn't make sense.
So it depends on products.
And then through a combination of European automotive sales to improve -- we tend to be much more conservative with our view of Europe.
I think that has served us well.
We would need that to improve.
Of course new wins where we can launch in Egypt a site now on Egypt we are launching our first center console in Europe and Egypt.
And that has been well received by the customer.
Okay.
One more auto question; this is K2 I think this iteration anyway this program scheduled to roll-off I think in the 2018 time period any comments or color you can share there on the bidding to the successor program there as far as timing? Yes the best answer I can give to you is we're aggressively pursuing that and this is a competitive situation.
So I don't think -- I probably shouldn't make any comment on that and I think you would understand why but… What about just from a timing standpoint obviously not trying to handicap anything? That's customer dependant.
I shy away from -- I made a comment a while back on the range and it's really up to the customer.
And we're prepared when they initiate their process.
But again it's a competitive situation and I really think we'll leave it at that.
Okay fair enough.
It's a new quarter so I had to ask you that question.
Okay and I appreciate that.
Last question for me and I'll hop back in the queue.
Dabir maybe any commentary you certainly gave some around success so far maybe commentary on building up the sales channel and when you would expect that to be material? Thanks.
We expect it to turn revenues from Dabir in '16.
I feel at this point it will be probably more towards the second half of '16.
There is a -- if you would call it designing process that goes on at these hospitals that takes right now we would say about a six-month timeframe.
We think that will go down as people become more familiar with the product and there's more word of mouth and more confidence in it.
All of these hospitals rightly have their internal review board.
They want to make sure the product is safe for use in the hospital.
There's training of the nursing staff and so on.
So we've been successful really with that approach.
And we're somewhat throttled by the hospital's timeline.
But we will continue to add to our sales force as we go into '16 here.
And we will probably -- on average we probably add one person or one rep a month.
That might be a little light but we continue to do that.
There has to be training that goes on there's a number of samples and so on.
So it's a process but the good news is that it is being well received.
But that'll affect our '16 but again the latter half of '16 because of the designing.
And then at some point we'll see maybe a national distribution contract.
But I just think we're too early to do that now.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley and Company.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning guys and let me add my congrats.
Thank you Jimmy.
First and this wasn't mentioned in the press release but just from the language in the 10-Q were you actually counting against a 14-week quarter last year? Yes.
Okay so what would the apples-to-apples sales growth have been in the quarter? I assume it would've been quite a bit higher if you were adjusting for having one fewer week this go around? You would have had another week of sales.
But I miscalculated but it would have depended upon releases and so on.
Exchange rates.
Yes.
That answer your question I don't… You can do the calculations too.
I… I don't want to.
Right I mean if we assume that sales were equal across the quarter each week was equal by roughly -- that makes you close like a 16% sales growth quarter year versus the I think 9% you posted.
Does that sound about right? I don't know because I'd have to do the math.
But it was also a holiday quarter.
But yes suffice to say we have an extra week of sales we'd anticipate a higher percentage year-over-year.
Yes it's just been fairly significant.
Anyway I'll move on.
Just looking for some -- most of my other questions have been answered.
But just looking for some help here on the other segments in light of the trade sale it looks like you'll have virtually no revenues in that segment until Dabir ramps.
So can you just help us understand what the quarterly expense rate will be for Dabir as you ramp up distribution before you see any material revenue come through and how we should be thinking about that heading into fiscal '16? I don't know… Jimmy I think that's why we gave you some color on the 2012 months of sales in pretax.
So we give you some idea of the impact of removing Trace.
So I don't know if we comment about Dabir expenses.
I think we have in times past said what we were spending in Dabir in our fiscal '15 and then as we next quarter give guidance on '16 we'll remark on the investment in Dabir.
But that would all be in the other category.
Is there anything else that's material that's left in that other category besides Dabir? Active Energy is in there as well.
And I don't know that we've given numbers on their burn burn] but that's anticipated to ship product here once we have UL approval and that would be significant but those revenues would be recorded in that segment.
Okay and then just lastly.
You talked about an expectation for some improvement in Hetronic sales.
Just can you elaborate a little bit on what gives you the confidence that you might finally be seeing a bottom there? And then as in terms of the follow-on to that the weakness that you've endured to date in that business are you fairly confident that that's just a function of end market softness as opposed to any share loss and so as your end markets recover do you expect to -- can you get back to prior levels there? There are a number of things that's happened with Hetronic.
We had one customer who was placing the Hetronic product and control system on oil rigs that required another certification.
The customer requested it.
We had to go through that.
That took a better part of I would say 6-8 months to obtain.
That was obtained.
So we will start shipping those products here in our fourth quarter and a little bit in the first quarter of next year.
So that wasn't market issue it was a certification issue.
And again that was at the request of the customer.
And then we've been successful launching a suite of products that go on service trucks.
That was about a year in development.
We're starting to see revenues from that now.
So those are two very positive developments both domestic.
In Europe we still see economic pressure in the industrial area.
We'll see some improvement there.
So if you ask me we've seen the bottom.
I'd like to think so.
Internally we've revamped our product.
We've taken a really auto approach to how we are approaching development and our manufacturing systems that ultimately should improve the margins and reduce our lead time in Hetronic.
So in summary I remain very enthusiastic about Hetronic moving forward.
We've had some pressures there but just as we've seen with Power.
We've been working with Power for a number of years now to get their factories where they need to be and we saw very good results this quarter.
And we would expect that at some point in the future I'm not necessarily saying when but that Hetronic will be a major contributor for us.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot Don.
I really appreciate the color.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Leiker with Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
This is Joe Vruwink for David.
Hi Joe.
While we're on the topic of Hetronic can you give some sort of reference points to maybe where revenues stand relative to where they trended or where they peaked during last cycle? I don't know if we have that readily available here but that's something that we can I think provide.
Yes I've got -- we can provide that.
And are you talking when you said last cycle you're talking '14? Well I guess kind of the period from when you acquired it to I'm guessing that's probably '08 timeframe.
Oh we're not yet approaching there.
I think they're peak revenue.
If that's the question I can definitely say that.
So that was acquired pre-recession and while we feel this recovered in the US the major market was in Europe and that still isn't anywhere is near where it was.
And that's a market factor not a business not an internal factor.
Doesn't have room to grow? Yes.
Okay.
The reason I ask is looking at Interface margins today and let's say they finish the year around 25% this business was closer to 30% at one point.
How much of that five point difference can you directly attribute to Hetronic versus some of your other products? I think the hit in interface is in appliance.
Appliance carries less margin than Hetronics but the revenue decrease that has been really been the biggest factor now.
Hetronic sales has higher margin depending on the product which could as it could offset that decline.
I don't think we're planning on that happening on next year but that certainly can have that effect.
Hetronic is one of our best margin products.
And then also in interface as we embark on 10-gig that will also hit the margin contributor that's -- so 1-gig is a good margin contributor and then 10-gig is -- the hit we have taken on margin is appliance -- for the most part appliance-related.
Okay.
Shifting over to Power Products you mentioned earlier that you kind of have three months visibility into a lot of that business so back in December when you provided updated targets were you seeing the inflation in demand across all the regions at that point? That's a good question.
We were seeing -- and to some degree we're seeing that now where our major customers segment is indicating that the next three months maybe a little less demand.
So yes we say we have three months visibility but it does vary within that quarter.
So when we went into last quarter we weren't seeing a strong demand as we ended up and that's -- that can go the other way as well.
These are -- most of the products that Power makes is dependent on our customers bill cycle.
So the most no one have to carry inventory.
So you will see increase in the demand I think varying of a one month till the next.
It's a harder business to predict we got to the customers but it can vary.
When I say minimum three months that's part of a good beginning and again it can vary.
Is it all a function of market demand or because these products are in pretty fragment to markets and there's a lot of competitors.
Do you see any share shifts where you really attribute some of the growth to your sales team and going out and getting the wins? Well it is a design end.
You get print position.
Sometimes you are sole sourced which is what we we prefer.
Sometimes its dual sourced.
In that case it will be the supplier that can deliver the product; earlier than their competitor and to some degree what we've seen is I mean again we are applying our auto discipline.
Power runs -- going from memory about 96% maybe sometimes a little higher on time.
Across the board we target 100% but because they even proved that dramatically when that call comes in can you deliver the product in X amount? And the answer is yes you get the business and the competitor doesn't assuming they have longer lead time.
So to that degree we can influence the buying decision and we do see some of that.
That's also not uncommon to have a Mill Arrow program get funded and they are upgrading a particular vessel and we are getting the order beginning of the quarter and we ship it by the end.
So it is design and depend on the sales and ship comes I think on the design in side.
And what's your design-in here the price is set it's really delivery and when the customer needs the product.
Okay.
The last one for me you touched on a piece of it.
Each of your businesses has a manufacturing target.
When you look at Automotive I would imagine when you open the low cost facilities there was an initial target for just the fact that overhead was going to be less and then probably moving up some sort of efficiency curve whether it's throughput or scrappage.
When you look at Egypt or really any of your low cost facilities where is the efficiency relative to maybe your best in class facility? And are you happening to move the targets higher which is why really margin improvement isn't so much being tied to revenue improvement at this point? I don't think it's tied to both revenue and cost reductions.
Egypt is our very youngest plant.
So we would expect that it would continue to improve.
Our Asian plant is probably and the Maltese plants are probably the most matured but they continue to take cost out.
The whole lean manufacturing process is continued improvement.
So what was good enough last year is not good enough this year so we continue to raise the bar.
Now realistically we have a five-year old product how much cost can you pick out of it.
A lot of diminishing returns comes into play.
We had customers come in and as you know auto -- customers will come in and will look for -- they will try to help you with cost reduction.
We've had customers come in particularly in Asia where they can't find anything.
So a lot of diminishing returns come in of the younger plant maybe the more products that you run through with more opportunities than exist.
We set new goals on every year not just for cost reductions but for on-time delivery quality and we will review those once a month at our ops review.
And if they are missing the goal they have to have corrective actions so that's just part of how Methode operates not just in auto but in non-auto.
Okay I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Thanks Joe.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Duda for closing remarks.
Adam thank you very much.
And we'll thank everyone for listening and their questions and wish them a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our teleconference for today.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Welcome to Methode Electronics Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only-mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
This conference call does contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect Management's expectations regarding future events and operating performance and speak only as of the date hereof.
These forward-looking statements are subject to the Safe Harbor protection provided under the Securities Laws.
Methode undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements to confirm the statements to actual results or changes in Methode's expectations on a quarterly basis or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements in this conference call involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
The factors that could cause these actual results to differ materially from our expectations are detailed in Methode's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission such as our annual and quarterly reports.
Such factors may include without limitations the following: dependence on a small number of large customers including two large automotive customers; dependence on the automotive appliance computer and communications industries investment in programs prior to the recognition of revenue; timing quality and cost of new program launches; ability to withstand price pressure; including price concession dependence on our supply chain; dependence on the availability and price of raw materials; customary risks related to conducting global operations; currency fluctuations; income tax rate fluctuations; fluctuations in our gross margins; the recognition of goodwill impairment charges; ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes; location of a significant amount of cash outside of the U.S.
ability to successfully benefit from acquisitions and divestitures ability to avoid design or manufacturing defects; ability to protect our intellectual property; ability to compete effectively; ability to withstand business interruptions; a breach of our information technology systems; and costs and expenses due to regulations regarding complex minerals.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Duda President and Chief Executive Officer of Methode Electronics.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today for our fiscal 2015 financial results conference call.
I am joined today by Ron Tsoumas our Controller and Treasurer.
Doug Koman our Chief Financial Officer is unable to join us this morning due to a personal matter.
Both Ron and I have comments and afterwards we'll be pleased to take your questions.
As we reported this morning fiscal 2015 sales income from operations and earnings were the highest in our company's history.
Year-over-year the strengthening of the US dollar compared to the euro had the effect of reducing net sales by $7.5 million or 3.2% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and by $10.9 million or 1.7% in the full year the majority of which is related to our automotive business.
As a result year-over-year fourth quarter sales grew 1% and full year sales grew 14% driven mainly by higher North American automotive and power product sales partially offset by decreased interface sales.
Fourth quarter consolidated gross margins increased 380 basis point for the full year and for the full year improved 450 basis points driven mainly in both periods by manufacturing efficiencies as well as increased volume at our lower cost manufacturing facility in Egypt.
As in the third quarter favorable raw material commodity pricing in both the Automotive and Power Product segments positively affected fourth quarter margins.
For both periods consolidated gross margins were negatively impacted by higher development cost in our Interface and other segments specifically for our Data Group's 10-gig copper transceiver products and the Dabir Therapeutic Surface and by pricing concessions in our Automotive segment.
We are however very pleased with the efficiency with which all of our manufacturing facilities worldwide are operating and I congratulate our teams on their continuous efforts to improve our manufacturing efficiency.
Year-over-year fourth quarter selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 11.6% from 9.3% and for the full-year increased to 10.7% from 10.3% in line with our guidance on last quarter’s call.
In both periods selling and administrative expenses came in greater than the previous year due mainly to higher long-term incentive plan compensation bonus wage travel legal and general expenses.
Excluding the impairment of goodwill and intangible asset charges for both fiscal 2015 and 2014 our fourth quarter operating margin was 11.3% compared to 9.8% last year as income from operations improved 16.4% to nearly $25.6 million.
On the same basis for the full year operating margin increased to 14% from 9.7% as income from operations grew 63.7% to $123.3 million.
GAAP earnings per share decreased in the fourth quarter to $0.68 from $1.25 last year and full-year increased $2.57 compared to $2.51 last year.
As noted in our earnings release there were various items that impacted our GAAP results in both the fourth quarter and full year period.
Excluding these items which include goodwill and intangible asset impairments sales of businesses and investments tax credits and valuation allowances our fourth quarter fiscal 2015 net income was $20.1 million or $0.51 per share compared to fourth quarter fiscal 2014 net income of $14.6 million or $0.38 per share.
When excluding these items for the full-year periods our fiscal 2015 net income was $94.6 million or $2.41 per share compared to fiscal 2014 net income of $62.6 million or $1.64 per share.
As announced this morning we are anticipating fiscal 2016 sales in the range of $830 million to $865 million.
Income from operations in the range of $108 million to $119 million and earnings per share in the range of $2.07 to $2.22.
Based on this guidance range our fiscal 2016 operating margin target is in the 13% to 13.8% range.
These guidance ranges are based upon Management’s expectations as of this date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties as detailed in our release.
The midpoint of our fiscal 2016 guidance anticipates lower PowerRail product sales of about $20 million.
Fiscal 2015 PowerRail sales came in approximately twice what we anticipated at the beginning of last year as our Big Data customer accelerated the build-out of their datacenters.
While this had a very positive effect on fiscal 2015 it will have a negative impact on 2016.
Our fiscal 2016 sales guidance also anticipates slightly less automotive segment sales year-over-year due to lower Ford sales of $30 million as a result of a roll-off of the Center Console program.
However we anticipate moderate growth in our Asian and European automotive businesses.
On the launch side the Center Console program is launching in our Egyptian manufacturing facility late in fiscal 2016 for approximately $3 million ramping to $11 million in fiscal 2017.
Also in late 2016 we're launching two more Center Console programs for General Motors with average annual revenue of $30 million.
One programs shifts to South America.
The other is domestic.
When we are able to we will provide you more details on these programs.
Fiscal 2016 guidance also anticipates flat sales in the Interface segment.
As a reminder revenue from Trace Labs which was sold at the beginning of the fourth quarter represented approximately $5 million of fiscal 2015 sales.
While fiscal 2016 guidance calls for lower revenue and earnings over 2015 we are targeting a five-year compounded annual growth rate of the -- for EBITDA in the range of 9% to 10%.
Now turning to a review of our individual segments compared to last year Automotive segment net sales grew nominally in the fourth quarter and 20% for the year as a result of higher General Motor center console and linear position sensor product sales which were partially offset by lower volume for the Ford center console pricing concessions lower transmission lead-frame sales and currency rate fluctuations which impacted European sales.
Automotive gross margins improved to 25% in both the fourth quarter and full year driven mainly by higher sales and the corresponding manufacturing efficiencies increased volume at our lower cost manufacturing facility in Egypt and by favorable raw material commodity pricing partially offset by pricing concessions.
For fiscal 2016 we are again targeting automotive gross margins in the mid 20% range with domestic margins in the teens bolstered by higher international margins.
Moving to our Interface segment fourth quarter sales were virtually flat but decreased 5% for the full year driven mainly by lower North American appliance sales and lower overall radio remote control sales.
As appliance customers migrate to more in-house design in conjunction with the contract manufacturing model we anticipated reduced demand for our Interface Solutions as we finalized our long range plan in the fourth quarter.
Based on this we took $11.1 million goodwill impairment charge related to touch sensor.
As I’ve mentioned in the past we are refocusing our efforts on higher margin user interface and sensor solutions in market such as medical vending food service.
This is consistent with our long-term strategy to direct our engineering resources to opportunities that meet our margin expectations.
We believe we will see some improvement in Hetronic in this fiscal year or fiscal 2015 due to improved revenues and cost savings from relocating manufacturing from the Philippines to Egypt which has just been completed.
Compared to fiscal 2014 interfaces' gross margins declined in both periods due primarily to unfavorable sales mix of data solution products and increased development cost for our 10 gig copper transceiver product.
For fiscal 2016 we are targeting interface gross margins in the range of 23% to 25% which would place fiscal 2016 relatively flat with last year.
Moving to Power Products which had its best year in its 30 year history.
I congratulate the team on this very noteworthy accomplishment.
Year-over-year sales improved over 16% in the fourth quarter and 18% for the year driven mainly by higher datacom bust power and caballing product demand.
Year-over-year power products gross margins improved to over 28% in the fourth quarter and over 32% for the year due mainly to improved sales and the corresponding manufacturing efficiencies.
As I mentioned earlier we anticipate lower year-over-year demand for this product in fiscal 2016.
As such for 2016 we are targeting power products gross margins in the range of 28% to 30%.
Now an update on our new business awards which at full production represent $32 million in new book business.
In our Automotive segment we were awarded additional lead-frame business with Ford.
The original program was for their production requirements in China and the additional platforms awarded from fiscal 2018 through 2021 are for North America with average revenue of $4 million per year.
Additionally our automotive segment was awarded a center console program for Harman with Subaru being the end customer.
For this award for the Implizite Methode will be Tier 2 to Harman who will provide the infotainment content through the silver box with Methode providing Class A center console module.
This award spans our fiscal 2017 through 2019 and represents $6 million in average annual revenue.
In our European operations we were awarded additional business with Ford and McLaren for hidden and tailgate switch products.
These programs begin in fiscal 2018 and run through 2021 and represent approximately $8 million average annual revenue over each of the four years.
Our European operations were also awarded a multimedia system with Fiat Chrysler for approximately $4 million in average revenue beginning in fiscal 2017 and running through 2021.
This compact system allows for controlling several functions in the vehicle through a combination of touchpad joystick and rotary technology.
Building on our success with Bash E-bikes Methode will provide a torque sensor subassembly for Japanese manufacture of power modules to be exported to the European market for several e-bike OEMs.
This program will ramp in fiscal 2017 to average annual revenue of $10 million through fiscal 2021.
This sensor utilizes Methode's highly patented Magnetoelastic technology to provide rider assist based on actual torque measured at the pedal box.
Moving to an update on the therapeutic surfaces as of last week 341 cardiovascular operations and other surgical procedures have been performed ranging from 4 to 20 hours in duration.
Additionally at our beta site we have expanded into other operating rooms as well several recovery areas or what is referred to as med surge in the ICU.
Additional surgical and med surged ICU product evaluations are also in progress at two other sites with clinical success being reported.
Additionally several other hospitals throughout the country have expressed interest in both product evaluation and potential commercial implementation.
Channel to market development continues with sales coverage now in 15 states predominantly east of the Mississippi but also in Texas.
Dabir team continues its representative training and national recruiting.
Finally we are investigating the requirement for international sales expansion as we anticipate meeting the requirements in this fiscal year for CE marking in Europe which is similar to Underwriters Laboratory in the U.S.
We continue to generate a great deal of interest from the medical community with this product and at this point feel adoption of this technology as a standard of care could become a reality.
In summary Methode serves its customers by engineering and manufacturing complex solutions that improve our customer's competitive position.
We participate in several growing end markets and have the teams in place to continue Methode's long term growth.
Our portfolio of advanced technologies combined with our global manufacturing capabilities position us to capitalize on the tremendous number of opportunities that we see ahead of us.
We look forward to the future.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Ron who will give us further details regarding our financial results.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
I have just a few brief comments on the quarter and full-year periods.
As Don mentioned our year-over-year fourth quarter and full year sales were negatively impacted by the translation of sales of foreign operations mainly due to the strengthening of the USD primarily against the Euro.
Additionally other income expense net related to the effect of foreign currency improved $800 000 for the full year.
Because we no longer had a net operating loss valuation allowance to shelter domestic book income in fiscal '15 the full year tax rate was 16.4%.
If you adjust for the valuation allowance releases totaling $8.6 million the effective tax rate for fiscal '15 was 23.5% which is in line with our guidance range of a mid 20% tax rate.
In fiscal '15 we had certain domestic tax net operating losses available which kept U.S.
Federal cash taxes and certain other state cash taxes to a minimum.
Since our Federal net operating losses in the U.S.
to shelter taxable income are largely exhausted our cash taxes paid will increase in fiscal 2016.
The estimated tax rate for fiscal 2016 is approximately 25% and assumes no significant changes in tax valuation allowances or enacted tax loss.
In fiscal '15 we invested $22.5 million for capital expenditures as compared to $29 million in fiscal '14.
For fiscal '16 we expect capital investment to be in the range of $20 million and $25 million.
Depreciation and amortization expense for fiscal '15 was $23.4 million compared to $23.9 million in fiscal '14.
For fiscal '16 we expect full year depreciation and amortization to be between $23 million and $26 million.
EBITDA for the full year of fiscal '15 was nearly $145 million or 16.5% of sales.
Adjusted EBITDA which excludes the impairments and sales of businesses and investments was $149 million in fiscal '15.
Based on our fiscal '16 guidance we expect EBITDA to be in the 15% to 16% of sales range and be between $132 million and $143 million.
Lastly for fiscal '15 free cash flow was a $102 million.
This was $11 million higher than the free cash flow for fiscal '14.
Based on our guidance we expect fiscal '16 free cash flow to be between $85 million and $95 million.
In fiscal '15 long-term debt was paid down by $43 million pending the year at $5 million.
Net cash increased during the fiscal year of '15 by nearly $95 million to $163 million.
The balance sheet effect of foreign currency fluctuation on our cash balances was a negative $11.4 million mainly due to the weakening of the Euro as compared to the USD during the fiscal year.
At the end of fiscal '15 $161 million or approximately 96% of the Company’s total cash was held outside the United States.
Don that concludes my comments.
Thank you Ron.
Christine we're ready to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conduction a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Steve Dyer with Craig Hallum.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
As it relates to your gross margin in auto given all of the puts and takes and price downs but moving some things to Egypt and so forth what would you expect the margin range and I am sorry if I missed it for to be in the Auto segment for fiscal '16? Very similar to '15 in the mid-20s.
Okay.
And then jumping over to Dabir do you have any revenue expectations embedded in the fiscal '16 guidance and that’s part one and part two is are you still thinking this is going to be a product that you distribute in-house largely? Let me answer the second question first.
Right now we will but as I have said as the product starts to evolve at very low maybe the hospital and the hospital buying units that direct us to distribution and we would let that happen naturally but we might actually make more money on that model.
But right now we feel we have to kind of kick start sales explain what the product does and that’s best done at the moment through direct sales.
We have goals for the Dabir Group for sales but we've included very little in our guidance for that.
Okay.
And then last question and I’ll hop back in the queue.
The stock obviously down 30% plus today you guys have a huge balance sheet lot of borrowing power free cash flow etcetera.
Is there a level at which you guys would strongly consider buying back stock? That certainly is a topic of discussion.
We’ll see where we end up on the stock.
The only caveat I would say to that as Ron mentioned we have a good portion of our cash overseas.
So we would either need to repatriate but we would have to repatriate cash to affect that.
But that is certainly something that is a topic of discussion amongst Management and the Board.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Steve.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Baker with B.
Riley.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning.
First just a point of clarification.
Is the base year for your new long-term EBITDA CAGR target fiscal '15 or fiscal '16 and then separately or I guess as a follow-on are you assuming that you could hit that target even if you were to lose your largest automotive program when it begins to go end of life? The base year is '15.
And when we look to that CAGR that involves a number of assumptions including future automotive programs but other products as well which was talked about Dabir which carry much higher margin than Automotive which is why we list an EBITDA goal versus a revenue goal because you could have some slippage in Automotive revenue to be made up by our other products which carry considerably higher margin than automotive.
Okay.
Let me try this from a different angle then does the target assume any large wins that you haven’t already announced? Jimmy I don’t want to go any further than that.
We’ve announced the target.
We’re good at hitting our targets.
We do five-year planning routinely as part of our business and there are a number of ins and outs that go into that and a number of different scenarios that give us confidence in that number.
I really don’t want to speculate on what isn’t there and what could or couldn’t happen.
Sure enough Don I had to try.
Can you just talk a little -- switching over to Power Products Segment can you just talk a little bit about this $20 million hit in the PowerRail? Are you assuming that that will drive the entire segment down about $20 million for the year? And then can you just talk a little bit about what’s happening with your large PowerRail customer? Do they kind of complete a build-out and now they're taking a breather or just how should we expect that to transpire on maybe a multi-year basis? Okay.
The $20 million is in our -- being down is in our guidance but we do anticipate some uptick from other customers but for the most part I would take the whole $20 million.
That particular customer as I said in my prepared remarks it really came in probably more than twice of what we anticipated for '15 because they did accelerate their builds.
Now they’ll do additional builds but that’s not likely to happen in our fiscal '16.
So it could be that that just -- it slows down and then fix backup as they need additional capacity but again I don’t see that happening in our fiscal '16 because they haven’t informed us if they have sufficient capacity at the moment.
Now they did say that last year at this time too but I think looking at our releases and again we only can look really about one month out or one quarter out excuse me I would say that it will be down for '16.
Okay.
And then on the Interface side you mentioned that your customers are moving to some or at least a customer is moving to in-housing of your Touch product.
I guess previously you had talked about some mix issues at your large appliance customer.
Did that turn out to be your customer in-sourcing away from you or is this a separate issue and can you just elaborate a little bit on what's assumed for '16 there? No.
Those two issues I think were separate.
The customer came out with a less expensive model which eroded some sales from the more expensive units which we are on.
So that's a separate issue and that still continues but as we routinely do we look at how much energy and resources we’re expanding and what type of return.
We're driven -- top line obviously is important but we’re driven by margin and whether it be an auto program or an appliance program there is a tremendous amount of design and engineering that goes into it.
And customers go through cycles.
I would say that the appliance industry is maybe a mid-cycle and if we say a five-year period where their in-house engineers decide that they can do it less expensively than outside and then contract manufacturing is a model that that works for some we can’t compete on that.
And so we’ll continue -- we’re not exiting the appliance business but we want it to let investors know that that we’re deemphasizing and refocusing in other areas.
Now we don’t give customer-specific information.
We’ve talked about interface but our margin anticipation is there.
So I think I’ll stay with that but I can’t say that we year-over-year we’re anticipating for both those reasons that our appliance sales will be down.
Hetronic which is also in that segment we see that improving and I’m definitely more excited about the opportunities in interface in the industrial area that carries considerably higher margin and we may see at some point that that margin shift to the positive.
Okay very helpful.
Lastly maybe just one for Ron when we look at the segmented income or expenses from operations in the K you can back into your corporate expenses jumping pretty dramatically here in the fourth quarter looks like it almost doubled quarter-over-quarter.
I’m sure part of that dovetails into Don’s comments about incentive comp and so forth driving SG&amp;A higher but could you just explain that change in a little bit more detail for us and what you’re assuming as kind of an appropriate go forward rate? You’re referring to what we’ve talked in the past as tandem cash driven by stock price.
I’m not sure exactly what’s driving that increase in corporate expense.
I assume some of it’s the stock price which is obviously going the other way now but I would just be interested in kind of what all is in that number in the change and what’s a fair kind of go-forward range? Obviously the Tandem cash performance based compensation was a chunk and going forward into next year as you mentioned the stock price just went down today there won’t be a benefit going forward from that because the variable accounting on that plan ended in this quarter.
So that type of variability in the corporate expenses around performance-based compensation will no longer occur going forward but that was -- that is a chuck of it is the performance based compensation.
So was the this April quarter run rate going forward and May quarter I should say.
No you’ve -- 12% About 12% is what we’re forecasting going forward a good rate.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Duda I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
All right.
Thank you very much.
I’ll thank everyone for listening and we will talk to you in the fall.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.